

401 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: Generation O Gets Its Hopes Up

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
GENERATION O is that college kid at the White House gate early Wednesday morning, lifting his shirt to reveal ''Obama'' painted in red on his chest. 
 Or that stylized Obama T-shirt that makes irony look old, the ''Obama Girl'' on YouTube, or the thousands of notes on Barack Obama's Facebook page: ''U are the best!!!'' ''yeah, buddy.''
 And, of course, Generation O is the president-elect himself. 
 Only a Fugees-loving, pick-up-basketball-playing, biracial president-elect would send supporters an e-mail message on election night that said: ''I'm about to head to Grant Park to talk to everyone gathered there, but I wanted to write to you first.'' 
 He signed it simply ''Barack.'' After all, they were close. He and his biggest fans, the generation of young adults who voted for him in record numbers, together had slogged through 21 months of campaigning. And in his moment of victory, Barack Obama shared the glow of success.
 ''All of this happened because of you,'' the e-mail message said. ''We just made history.'' 
 With that simple ''we'' in millions of in-boxes, the post-baby-boomer era seems to have begun. The endless ''us versus them'' battles of the '60s, over Vietnam, abortion, race and gender, at least for a moment last week, seemed as out-of-touch as a rotary phone. Of course, that was Mr. Obama's goal. In his book, ''The Audacity of Hope,'' he was explicit in his desire to move beyond ''the psychodrama of the Baby Boom generation -- a tale rooted in old grudges and revenge plots hatched on a handful of college campuses long ago.'' 
 Mr. Obama's victory was greatly helped by his young allies. More 18- to 29-year-olds went to the polls this year than in any election since 1972 -- between 21.6 million and 23.9 million, up from about 19.4 million in 2004, according to preliminary estimates from the Center for Information and Research of Civic Learning and Engagement. And 66 percent voted for Mr. Obama, according to exit polls by Edison/Mitofsky. 
 These young voters and those slightly older, who together may forever be known as Generation O, were the ground troops of the campaign. They opened hundreds of Obama offices in remote areas, registered voters and persuaded older relatives to take a chance on the man with the middle name Hussein. 
 They saw in Mr. Obama, 47, who was born at the tail end of the baby boom era, the values that sociologists and cultural critics ascribe to them. 
 Government under Mr. Obama, they believe, would value personal disclosure and transparency in the mode of social-networking sites. Teamwork would be in fashion, along with a strict meritocracy.
 The pinnacle and promise of that approach can be seen in Tuesday's stunning victory. But as January's presidential realities inevitably chip away at November's idealism, a few valleys may be around the corner. With two wars and a financial crisis to face, this generation may soon discover the limits of their consensus-oriented focus and unyielding faith in networks and communication. 
 In many ways 2008 looks a lot like 1960, said Robert Dallek, the presidential historian. In both cases, a young Democrat won on a promise of youthful change. Voters, Mr. Dallek said, ''want something fresh.'' 
 President Kennedy responded not just with soaring rhetoric and new programs like the Peace Corps. He also transformed communication between the president and the people. At the White House, he projected an image of openness and transparency. He let photographers take pictures of the Kennedy children. He held televised news conferences for the first time. 
 Theodore Sorensen, the Kennedy speechwriter, said the youthfulness of Camelot brought a new casualness and intimacy to Washington. He recalled a softball game with reporters in the early '60s, in which the younger staff members invited the Council of Economic Advisers to play. Three older economists showed up and tried to fit in. 
 ''They took off their jackets and ties,'' Mr. Sorensen said. ''They didn't go home to change into blue jeans, but they were swinging bats.'' 
 Mr. Obama has created his own jacketless atmosphere, but on a grander scale, with a steady stream of e-mail messages and Facebook postings. Obama supporters know, of course, that the text messages from ''Barack'' are the work of a campaign aide, but that doesn't mean that it's not effective. 
 Ellen Steiner, 23, a graduate student at the University of Colorado, Denver, said the direct style ''makes me feel like I really was part of something great.''
 Reid Johnson, 31, a volunteer at the Obama office in Wilson, N.C., agreed. ''You get the feeling that you're becoming friends with him in that casual way,'' he said. ''I think everyone takes ownership of it because you feel like you know who he is.''
 It would be hard to overestimate how much communication and an informal tone means to this generation. They have poured out their foibles and triumphs on blogs, MySpace, Facebook or Twitter. Older Americans see this as dangerous exhibitionism, but young adults believe the conversation leads to open-mindedness and consensus. 
 ''This generation has been knocked for putting all of their personal stuff on full display,'' said Mik Moore, 34, a founder of the Great Schlep, which used a Sarah Silverman online video to help young Jews win their grandparents' support for Senator Obama. ''But there is an upside, too, which is a willingness to communicate with large numbers of people in your network about what's important to you.'' 
 Ideology doesn't matter. Young evangelicals can be just as creative in their use of the Web as liberal bloggers. The point is that communication technology is the tool that makes all things possible, from hook-ups and pop songs to protests or the president of their choice, said Neil Howe, a sociologist who studies young adults. 
 And the enthusiasm has a way of spreading. Wearing a pink Chanel suit and gold heels, Holly Hennessy, a wealthy older Republican woman in Palm Beach, Fla., came out of the polls on Tuesday with goose bumps after deciding at the last second to vote for Mr. Obama. 
 Matthew Weiner, the creator of ''Mad Men,'' the AMC television series set in the early '60s, predicted that there would be more to come. ''A year from now you're going to see that 65 to 70 percent of the people are going to claim they voted for Obama even if they didn't,'' he said. ''That's what happened with Kennedy. People will be swept up in it.'' 
 And yet, such a sweeping success could also breed trouble. ''The risk is they vote for the first time, and then there's this incredible long-shot win -- 'Gee this is easy,' '' said Kurt Andersen, a founder of Spy and former editor of New York Magazine. There is also ''a risk of this generation conflating our iPhones with the substantive policy progress that the iPhones and laptops enable.''
 Inevitably, he said, ''growing up is all about disappointment and things not going well -- so that is a natural next step.'' 
 The pain of dashed hopes, if it comes, could be eased by this generation's news media diet, which has made them fantastically informed and skeptical. Or it could be worsened by the psychology of how they were raised and came of age. 
 Ronald Alsop, author of ''The Trophy Kids Grow Up: How the Millennial Generation is Shaking Up the Workplace,'' said that because today's young people have been trained to trust teams and systems -- they love checklists -- they often struggle when things do not go according to plan. 
 Compounding the problem, they have also been told by everyone from Mom to Barney the Dinosaur that they are destined for greatness. They have seen 25-year-olds become millionaires overnight with companies like Google, and after helping Mr. Obama win, the question is whether they will settle for anything less than a central role.
 ''They are used to getting a lot of awards and coddling from their parents, coaches and teachers,'' Mr. Alsop said. ''So if they're put in some menial position, in a political or corporate environment, they are not going to be happy.''
 On Mr. Obama's Facebook page, there are already needy supporters like Viki, who wrote, ''Please keep this dialogue going.''
 ''We are here for you,'' she added, ''and I am anxious to see, now that you have won, if you will keep your momentum with the people or let us go.''
 Mr. Johnson, the volunteer in North Carolina, said that the new president needs to refresh his Internet presence to keep young constituents passionate. ''There's a lot of attention deficit with this generation,'' he said. ''You have to keep people engaged and active because it's a highly technical society and there are lots of ways to distract our minds.''
 As if on cue, President-elect Obama posted pictures of election night on flickr and introduced a new Web site, change.gov, on Thursday. ''Share your story and your ideas,'' it says, ''and be part of bringing positive lasting change to this country.''
 The site is in many ways an extension of the Obama campaign: casual, cool, interactive. 
 BUT if these are the traits of the young, might they alienate older Americans? Mr. Dallek said that for the new president to succeed, he must be seen as representative of not just the new, but also the traditional. ''This is the challenge: How to sustain the energy of these young people and fulfill their expectations but not go so far to be seen by these older folks as overreaching.''
 Many baby boomers are unlikely to be comfortable with this generation's technological boosterism and ease with blurred identities and mixed ethnicities. Peter Wolson, a psychoanalyst and former dean of the Los Angeles of Institute and Society for Psychoanalytic Studies, said the crucible of the 1960s helped give baby boomers a deep suspicion of ''the other.'' Their world was bifurcated: pro-war versus antiwar; communist versus capitalist. 
 ''There is a fear of intimacy and merging because of the sense that you'll be taken over by the other,'' Mr. Wolson said. ''The fear is: 'We'll get the wool pulled over our eyes. We'll get taken advantage of.' ''
 Seeing a new crop of young people texting their way to the Oval Office may never soothe those fearful boomers. For others, the generational transition may bring relief as the country seems to move past old, entrenched conflicts. 
 Chuck D., 48, the rapper and former lead of Public Enemy, said he has been amazed at the ease with which his 20-year-old daughter and her friends have interacted with politics this year. While he spent his youth shouting the message, ''Fight the power,'' his daughter fell in love with a candidate, voted for the first time and got exactly what she wanted. 
 He couldn't be more pleased. ''She doesn't bring the burden of history with her,'' he said. ''She's not pigeonholed. She's free to make a healthy decision for the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GENERATION RISING: Young voters at the polls on Election Day in the New York metropolitan area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (BOTTOM ROW, FAR RIGHT))(ST1)
AT WORK AND PLAY: Obama supporters, left, at a victory celebration in Union Square, and at a campaign office in Columbus, Ohio.
Voters on Election Day in the New York region. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON DECROW/ASSOCIATED PRESS, LEFT
 CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES)(ST10 and ST11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); BASKETBALL (55%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



402 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Money in Bailout Urged for Automakers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Neil A. Lewis contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democratic leaders in Congress urged the Bush administration on Saturday to consider using the $700 billion bailout for the financial system to aid distressed American automakers, in a prelude to what may become urgent negotiations over additional economic stimulus measures. 
 In a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Democratic leaders said, ''A healthy automobile manufacturing sector is essential to the restoration of financial market stability, the overall health of our economy and the livelihood of the automobile sector's workforce.'' The letter was signed by the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada. 
 But the Democratic leaders also urged Mr. Paulson to include strong taxpayer protections as a condition of any aid to the automakers, mindful of public frustration over the repeated efforts by the government to aid large financial institutions and other corporations while average citizens struggle in the economic downturn. 
 On Friday, General Motors said that it had been burning through cash at a pace of more than $2 billion a month and that it could run short of money by mid-2009 without federal help. 
 The company said it had suspended merger talks with Chrysler to focus on its own problems. Chrysler and Ford have also been battered by the weak economy, tight credit markets and high oil prices, but General Motors seems to be the worst off. 
 Congress recently approved $25 billion in loans for auto manufacturers, but executives say that is not enough to keep the industry afloat. 
 Representatives of Detroit's Big Three automakers met Thursday on Capitol Hill with Congressional leaders to make a pitch for additional assistance. And in their letter to Mr. Paulson, the lawmakers said they believed such aid was needed. 
 ''We left the meetings,'' they wrote, ''convinced that our nation's automobile industry -- the heart of our manufacturing sector -- and the jobs of tens of thousands of American workers are at risk. Friday's news of the automobile industry's record low sales figures only reaffirm the need for urgent action.'' 
 The letter to the Bush administration came slightly more than a week before Congress might reconvene for a lame-duck session in which an economic stimulus measure would be the main order of business. 
 Democrats have proposed a stimulus measure of as much as $100 billion that would include new spending on infrastructure projects, an extension of unemployment benefits for those whose payments are about to run out, an increase in food stamps and additional aid to help states meet rising Medicaid costs. 
 But whether a lame-duck session will take place largely depends on whether President Bush drops his opposition to a stimulus bill. 
 The White House has expressed concern about the auto industry but so far seems cool to the idea of using bailout money to prop up the carmakers. 
 The deputy White House press secretary, Tony Fratto, said Saturday that the remaining money for the bailout, formally known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, ''should be used to strengthen the financial system and get lending going again.''
 Mr. Fratto also said that the ideas for a stimulus put forward by Congressional Democrats were unlikely to provide an immediate lift for the economy. At a news briefing Friday, he said lawmakers would have to decide among themselves if they wanted to take additional steps to aid automakers.
 Brookly McLaughlin, a Treasury spokeswoman, did not directly address the Democratic leaders' call for an extension to the auto industry, saying in response to the Reid-Pelosi letter, ''We continue to work on a strategy that most effectively deploys the remaining TARP funds to strengthen the financial system and get lending going again.'' 
 Alternatively, the Democrats could wait until after President-elect Barack Obama is inaugurated to push forward a more aggressive stimulus bill, but some officials fear that the economic crisis is so severe that waiting would be a grave mistake. 
 One alternative to using the financial bailout to aid the auto industry would be to include additional assistance for the car manufacturers in a stimulus package. 
 Democratic leaders said they intended their letter to potentially jump-start those conversations with the White House. 
 In their letter, the Democrats said they hoped that government aid to the automakers would help address the energy crisis and ultimately combat global warming. 
 ''It is our hope,'' the letter said, ''that the actions that Congress has taken, and that the administration may take, will restore the pre-eminence of our domestic manufacturing industry so that it can emerge as a global, competitive leader in fuel efficiency and in new and path-breaking energy-efficient technologies that protect our environment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); MERGERS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); HARRY REID (59%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



403 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: The Transformation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Early on Election Day morning in the Philadelphia suburb of Levittown, Pa., Joe Sinitski, 48, stood in a long line inside a school gymnasium, inching his way toward three blue-curtained voting machines. He wore jeans, a sweatshirt and a National Rifle Association baseball cap. He said he would vote for Barack Obama, a choice that some months earlier he could not have imagined. 
 ''I have to admit, his race made my decision harder,'' he said. ''I was brought up that way. And I don't like his name. I'll admit to that, too.''
 Mr. Sinitski, a heating and air-conditioning technician, repeated a joke he had heard back in the spring about the choice in the Democratic primary between a black man and a woman (Hillary Rodham Clinton), and he used a crude term for each. But when I asked him how he might feel to wake up the next morning to the reality of a black president-elect, he said: ''I do think it's an historic election. Part of me feels like it would be really cool.'' 
 Political pollsters track trends and changes within big blocs of voters. What they do less well is catch the complicated, ever-evolving and often conflicted feelings within individual voters. 
 Levittown had been Hillary country all the way -- it gave Mrs. Clinton roughly three out of every four of its votes in the Pennsylvania primary in May. In doing so, it conformed, in some ways, to its history and stereotype. William Levitt built the vast postwar development in the shadow of a giant United States Steel plant, some 17,000 homes sprawling across three Pennsylvania townships and one borough. He would not sell to black families.
 According to the latest United States census, just 2 percent of Levittown's current 54,000 residents are African-American; about an equal percent are Hispanic. The community is overwhelmingly Democratic, but filled with older whites who did not attend college -- the so-called Reagan Democrats who in recent presidential elections have been the voters most likely to swing between parties. 
 I grew up in Levittown, and in the spring had returned there before the Democratic primary to write about how Mr. Obama's message of hope and change was connecting with its blue-collar population. It wasn't. My article in The New York Times Magazine reported that his words were coming across as lofty and abstract to people more attuned to concrete concerns like the hourly wage and the monthly car payment. The article was published on the morning before Mr. Obama made his one big gaffe of the campaign, telling attendees at a San Francisco fund-raiser that some blue-collar voters have been so beaten down that ''it's not surprising that they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion... .'' 
 The timing of those remarks and the article were not coincidental. That evening in San Francisco, in the instant before committing what he would later call ''my biggest boneheaded move,'' Mr. Obama had been ruminating on his struggles to win over white working-class voters, and said, ''there were intimations of that in an article in the Sunday New York Times today -- kind of implies that it's sort of a race thing.'' What I wrote had seemed to hit at a deep frustration of Mr. Obama's -- his inability to reach a certain segment of voters. Some of the reason for that was his manner of speaking; but in some measure, for sure, his failure to persuade white blue-collar voters was based on his mixed-race heritage. 
 I traveled again to Levittown on Election Day to see how people would vote and how they would respond to what looked like an imminent Obama victory. The contrast from the spring -- and, in fact, this new vision of Levittown compared with what I had known in my childhood -- was almost breathtaking. 
 ''Obama,'' said the ironworker, when I asked how he'd be voting. 
 ''Obama,'' said the plumber. 
 ''Obama,'' said the chef.
 And on and on. Military moms. Vietnam veterans. Abortion opponents. College students and retirees. Bank tellers, pipe fitters, officer workers, machinists, meat cutters, boilermakers and carpenters.
 I spent Election Day at a voting site inside the Magic Cottage preschool in a section of Levittown called Appletree, where Mr. Obama would defeat Mr. McCain, 682-388, a ratio slightly higher than the Democratic registration edge in that precinct. Not a single one of the more than 60 Obama voters I talked to said they had voted for him in the spring. Some said they had come around slowly, and many reported that they had been open to Mr. McCain. 
 These were the voters whom Mr. McCain was targeting when he made a big bet on Pennsylvania, investing money and a substantial amount of his time and the time of his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin. But Mr. McCain's message, to the extent it was received at all, irritated them. The Democrats of Levittown did not defect -- they stayed in the fold, and then some. Over all, in the four municipalities that Levittown spans, Obama got a slightly higher percentage than John Kerry did in 2004, and because of higher turnout, emerged with a 3,200-vote greater margin of victory. (Levittown is defined by ZIP codes and Levitt-built homes, but is not its own incorporated town. Large parts of it extend into towns with large white working-class populations -- Bristol, Middletown and Falls Townships, as well as Tullytown Borough -- but it does not make up the entirety of any of those places. In those four jurisdictions, Obama defeated McCain, 41,110 to 25,034 -- contributing to his resounding 11-percentage-point victory in Pennsylvania.) 
 ''McCain pointed a lot of fingers instead of giving answers,'' Steve O'Connor, a plumber, told me. 
 Mr. Obama's message, on the other hand, seemed like it had entered some voters by IV injection. ''I don't want a clone of George Bush,'' Mark Maxwell, 47, a corporate chef, said. ''With McCain, that's exactly what we'd get.'' 
 Said Lisa Winslow, a 20-year-old college student: ''I'm not rich. I can't afford to vote for McCain.''
 What had changed for Mr. Obama? The financial meltdown obviously made a huge difference. Five more months of exposure to him, and his millions of dollars worth of advertisements, engendered a comfort level. And Iraq, to a much greater extent than the pre-election polls implied, mattered. Nearly every Obama voter I talked to mentioned it, and many linked it to the economy. 
 ''We're like a trillion dollars in debt and spending what, $10 billion a month on the war?'' said Andrew Brehaut, 25, a waiter.
 Levittown is filled with a great many veterans of the Vietnam War, not all of whom served happily. ''I didn't want to be there when I was told to go,'' said Frank Carr, 62, who recently retired from his shipping job in a corrugated box factory. ''I know how the boys feel. I believe Obama is a man of his word.'' 
 When Mr. Obama says he is going to bring home the troops, ''I believe him,'' Mr. Carr said.
 Before Mr. Obama emerged on the national scene and began winning primaries, few people would have predicted Americans were on the verge of elevating a person of African descent to the highest office in the land, or that they would have to confront any reluctance they might have about accepting black leadership. The nation was transformed on Tuesday, but what had to occur first was the transformation of individual voters. 
 A lot of people in Levittown needed the five months between the primary election and Tuesday to get used to a new idea. After Mrs. Clinton's defeat, followed by a financialcrisis that shook Americans to the core, they came to terms. If Mr. Obama's race had been a factor, they eventually had to weigh it against other concerns. 
 ''For a long time, I couldn't ignore the fact that he was black, if you know what I mean,'' Mr. Sinitski, the heating and air-conditioning technician, told me. ''I'm not proud of that, but I was raised to think that there aren't good black people out there. I could see that he was highly intelligent, and that matters to me, but my instinct was still to go with the white guy.'' 
 Mr. Sinitski said what pushed him toward Mr. Obama, more than anything, was McCain's vice-presidential choice of Mrs. Palin. ''She might be a great person, but I had never heard of her before and I couldn't see how such an unknown should be put one heartbeat from the presidency,'' he said, ''especially with all the problems we've got. I didn't feel it spoke well for McCain. It didn't demonstrate intelligence on McCain's part and it just didn't reflect well in general on him.''
 Tina Davis is the council president in Bristol Township, which has the highest concentration of Levittown voters. She said she had endless conversations with constituents who said they would not vote for Obama. ''Most of them couldn't give me a real answer why,'' she said. ''I had some of them reciting those stupid e-mails saying he was a Muslim. I'm pretty blunt. I would just say to them, 'You're against him because he's black.' ''
 She thinks some of those who argued with her and insisted till the bitter end that they would vote for Mr. McCain just stubbornly did not want to acknowledge they had changed their minds. In the end, she believes they ended up voting out of a different kind of fear -- fear for their own economic survival. Self-interest trumped racism. ''They had to ask themselves if they wanted a really smart young black guy, or a stodgy old white guy from the same crowd who put us in this hole,'' she said.
 The people I met in Levittown were not on Mr. Obama's e-mail list or among his donors, but they may be more likely than his younger supporters and more affluent ones to give him what he most desperately needs: time and patience. Like characters from the songs of one of Mr. Obama's celebrity endorsers, Bruce Springsteen, many Levittowners have been weathered by life. They haven't benefited from a lot of quick fixes. Others of his supporters say they'll be patient, but I sensed these people really mean it. They were harder to sell, but they could end up being pretty loyal. 
 ''How long did it take Bush to get us into this mess?'' Mr. Carr, the Vietnam veteran, asked. ''It's a lot easier to screw things up than to make them better.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about blue-collar voters in Levittown, Pa., who gravitated to Senator Barack Obama in the presidential election misstated the month of the Pennsylvania primary. It was April, not May.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BEHIND THE CURTAIN: Election workers stand at their posts last week in Levittown, Pa. In the primary, below, Barack Obama had difficulty connecting with voters. His message seemed too abstract. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK1)
 TOUGH CROWD: Workers at a factory in Fairless Hills, Pa., listened to Barack Obama before the primary. He lost to Hillary Rodham Clinton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PETERSON/REDUX)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TRENDS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



404 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Blue Mountains

BYLINE: By INMAN MAJORS. 
Inman Majors is the author of ''Wonderdog,'' ''Swimming in Sky'' and the forthcoming novel ''The Millionaires.''

DATELINE: Waynesboro, Va. 

 BODY:
 BY Wednesday morning the John McCain signs were all gone. On our street and all through the neighborhood, it was hard to find a trace of the Republican nominee for president. Gone was the John McCain sign placed as a joke in the yard of our Democratic neighbors who'd been out of the country for the last few months. Gone, the huge placard on Highway 250 that said, ''I'm voting for the chick.'' Gone as well, the large John McCain banner over Totally Naked Tattoos in Staunton, the next town over from us. Other than a few stragglers for Senator McCain, most of which were on hillsides and other hard to reach places, it was hard to know that two people had actually run in an election that had ended fewer than 12 hours before.
 Intrigued by this phenomenon, I decided to drive around town to gauge local reaction. By ''local,'' I mean I was hoping to find folks who'd lived in this area for a number of years, a prospect that grows harder and harder as we become more of a bedroom community for those who work in Charlottesville but can't afford to live there, and a destination for retirees. 
 After making stops at a local barbecue restaurant and a couple of convenience stores, and trying, unsuccessfully, to get folks to talk about the election, I stopped by my next-door neighbor's auto repair shop on the far side of town, about a quarter-mile from where Highway 250 begins its ascent to the Blue Ridge Mountains. 
 My neighbor and his co-worker were replacing wheel bearings in a trailer when I arrived, and as we talked, they occasionally dipped their hands in axle grease or started up an air impact wrench. Both of the men are locals, and both, as most in this area are, are lifelong Republicans. To be honest, they didn't seem that disappointed or surprised by the election. Both blamed the current president and the economy for the outcome, and blamed them in that particular order. 
 When I asked about Virginia going Democratic for the first time since 1964, and what conclusions they drew from that, both men essentially shrugged their shoulders. DuPont was gone from town. General Electric was gone. What had once been a thriving small industrial town in the heart of the Shenandoah Valley was no more. There was a Lowe's now, and a brand new Target, and all the other sundry big retailers. And there were a lot of newcomers, like myself, who'd come and driven up property values, as well as property taxes. 
 As we talked, I thought how rarely it was that I met a true local. The only ones I did meet, other than a few neighbors of mine, were the people who came to repair the air-conditioner, check for termites or replace a sewer line. They are all nice people. This area, like most in Appalachia, is of the traditional Republican ideology of small government and fiscal responsibility. The evangelical strain and the focus on mores that has influenced the Republican Party for the past 30 years don't predominate here. 
 As the men went back and forth to the trailer, I thought how odd it must feel to see your town and the landscape around it change so drastically in a decade's time. The beautiful farmland, nestled up against the blue and hazy mountains, disappears by the day. So too, the influence of the people who have called this place home for generations. 
 Standing in the garage, I recalled the disappearing John McCain signs. At first, I'd interpreted this as a sign of bad sportsmanship, the sore-loser mentality. But as I talked to the men in the garage, I realized how much the people in this neck of the woods were accustomed to a changing landscape. So much of what happens is beyond your control. So what do you do? You adjust. You move on. The one thing you don't do is wallow in what might have been.
 As I was leaving, the co-worker said: ''Mr. Obama is our president now. All I can do is get behind him.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ESTHER WATSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); RETAILERS (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); CONVENIENCE STORES (65%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



405 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''You don't ever want a crisis to go to waste; it's an opportunity to do important things that you would otherwise avoid.'' Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, appointed by President-elect Barack Obama as his White House chief of staff, talking about the economic crisis. 
 ''Normally markets are driven by fear and greed. Now it's fear and fear.'' Brian Gendreau, a strategist at ING Investment Management in New York, after another huge sell-off on Wall Street last week.
 ''You can get anything, anywhere, at any price.'' Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the NPD Group. After retail sales plummeted in October, stores are offering eye-catching bargains.
 ''They wait.'' Ted Epperly, a doctor in Boise, Idaho, and president of the American Academy of Family Physicians, who said that some patients must choose to spend their money on food and gas rather than on medical care.
 ''I think it's a healthy way to go and an economical way.'' Cynthia Worley of Harlem, who has turned her basement into a root cellar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); FAMILY PRACTICE (72%); RETAIL SALES (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (55%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF FAMILY PHYSICIANS (56%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (57%); INGA (AMS) (57%); ING (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



406 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: After Defeat, Which McCain Will Return to Senate?

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
John McCain has been here before, coming up short in a presidential race like so many senators before him and staring at a less than triumphant return to the Senate. 
 But the circumstances this time are vastly different. In 2000, Mr. McCain was welcomed back almost as a hero after he ended his primary campaign against George W. Bush. He was prized for his openness, sought out by fellow Republicans for his endorsement and respected for the national following he had built in his gutsy effort against the future president. There was a sense that he had been wronged, dragged down by scurrilous attacks when he had reached for a higher tone in politics.
 Now it is Mr. McCain and his campaign who have been criticized as trying to paint President-elect Barack Obama as a pal to terrorists and a socialist in Democratic clothing. In this campaign, Mr. McCain's free-wheeling relationship with the press was badly strained, he was accused of pandering to conservatives, and party strategists said he damaged the prospects of other Republicans on the ballot. 
 As a result, his colleagues are wondering which John McCain will be returning to the Senate for a term that runs two more years.
 Will it be the John McCain who was an enthusiastic coalition builder, deal maker and central figure in Congress, one as apt to tweak Republicans as much as Democrats? Or the John McCain who seemed so dismissive of Mr. Obama, who spent considerable time assailing the opposition rather than making his own case and who to many seemed to become what he had once disdained?
 ''John is going to have to make a decision,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. ''I think he will make the right choice and pitch in.''
 Many of his colleagues say they believe the same, that Mr. McCain, of Arizona, will quickly reassert himself in the Senate and could, if he so chooses, be a valuable asset to Mr. Obama as the new administration seeks to move its agenda on the economy, national security, immigration and climate change, among other issues.
 ''If President-elect Obama lives up to his rhetoric to reach across party lines, and I hope that he will, he is going to need John McCain,'' said Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican and longtime ally of Mr. McCain. ''He is going to be a real player.''
 In his concession speech on Tuesday night, Mr. McCain said he was ready to do his part.
 ''These are difficult times for our country, and I pledge to him tonight to do all in my power to help him lead us through the many challenges we face,'' he said of Mr. Obama, in a speech that many Democrats hailed as promising for its conciliatory tone.
 Longtime associates of Mr. McCain say they expect him to play a constructive role in the Senate and not sulk in the aftermath of defeat, trying to undermine Mr. Obama. They expect him to rededicate himself to the legislative art in his remaining years in the Senate. 
 ''It is just not in his nature to stand still,'' said one longtime adviser who would talk about the Senate return only if he was not quoted by name.
 But there is serious fence-mending to be done. Plenty of harsh words were expressed over the course of recent months, and many Senate Democrats were angered by what they interpreted as a lack of respect for Mr. Obama from the McCain campaign and the senator's own warnings about the dire perils of liberal Democratic government.
 Some of the hatchets are quickly being buried. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, spoke by telephone with Mr. McCain on Friday; according to an aide, they agreed to put the attacks of the last few months behind them. Mr. Reid, who for months during the campaign carried with him a set of negative quotes about Mr. McCain from fellow Republicans to have ready for recitation, plans on ripping up the quotes, said his spokesman, Jim Manley.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who returned to the Senate this year after his own abbreviated presidential primary run, said Mr. McCain would no doubt have to decompress. But Mr. Dodd expects his colleague to get back on track.
 ''He has been here a long time,'' Mr. Dodd said, ''and people have had their relationships with him, including good ones over the years. And ultimately that is what you remember, and that is what will prevail.'' 
 Republicans say it is unlikely that Mr. McCain will bear the blame for party losses in the House and Senate, with most attributing them to miserable economic conditions and President Bush's lingering unpopularity.
 ''He should come back O.K.,'' said Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, a retiring Republican whose seat went to a Democrat on Tuesday. ''He did the best a Republican could do. The headwinds were just enormous.'' 
 Mr. McCain is simply the latest in a long line of senators turned presidential contenders who have had to make their way sheepishly home to the Senate, which until this year had been a political albatross for dozens of presidential hopefuls. Some pick up right where they left off, and some drop off the Senate map or make quick exits.
 When he last came back to the Senate after being defeated in 2000, Mr. McCain used his ire at Mr. Bush and other Republicans as a springboard for rebellion, starting his zealous pursuit of a campaign finance overhaul and other reform-minded initiatives. He even toyed with the idea of switching parties -- though he ultimately found more influence, and the foundations for this year's presidential bid, in his status as a maverick Republican.
 Now the Senate waits to see how Mr. McCain will apply the lessons of his latest presidential quest. He has the experience and Senate seniority to make of it what he will.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, center, on his first day back at the Senate after his failed 2000 presidential bid. From left, Senators Jon Kyl, Mike DeWine, Fred D. Thompson and Chuck Hagel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TERRORISM (70%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JON KYL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



407 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a Poet for the Great Mess of '08

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
''Some years, like some poets and politicians and some lovely women,'' John Kenneth Galbraith wrote in 1955, ''are singled out for fame far beyond the common lot, and 1929 was clearly such a year.''
 To talk of eras on Wall Street is most often to imbibe its intoxicants -- the Roaring Twenties, the Go-Go Eighties, the Tech Boom Nineties, and so on. But single years -- 1906, 1987, 2000 and most of all 1929 -- just as often register as the tombstones of financial history. 
 Where will 2008 fit into this collective conceit? Our autumn of disintegrating stock markets, disappearing credit and depressing unemployment numbers can not reasonably be compared to 1929 and its aftermath. Not really. Not yet. But as traders exude panic and worried Americans read their 401(k) statements and wonder when this equities elevator reaches the basement and how much their new president will be able to do about it, popular evocations of that distant year grow louder and more insistent. 
 And who better to turn to than the popular chronicler Mr. Galbraith? His theories often ruffled the establishment economists, but few could have exhumed the financial apocalypse with more wit and panache than he did in his book ''The Great Crash, 1929.'' Continuously in print, the well-respected if sometimes controversial history dealt with the consequences of high interest rates and lack of regulation, foolish adherence to gold standards and a maldistribution of income akin to today's.
 But the book is perhaps most intriguing for its depiction of the delusion that swept the culture, and the ways financiers and bankers, wishful academics and supine regulators willfully ignored reality and in the process encouraged the epic collapse of the stock market.
 No dreadful year is the same as another, particularly when that year is an epochal disaster. But similarities can be discerned and parallels drawn between the culture of that time and the modern day, when bubble followed bubble even as champions of the market insisted that all was fine.
 Mr. Galbraith wrote his book while the crash remained branded on the national consciousness. Quite a few Americans still feared stock bubbles and speculators, shared a desire to regulate the financial sphere and harbored the inchoate conviction that a financier's wealth should not be conflated with wisdom. Mr. Galbraith offered his account as a sort of warning against regarding the manias of 1929 as ancient history. 
 ''It is worth hoping,'' Mr. Galbraith wrote, ''that a history such as this will keep bright that immunizing memory for a little longer.''
 He was a Keynesian economist, an adviser to President John F. Kennedy and an ambassador to India, but some have argued that in his critique of 1929, Mr. Galbraith gave short shrift to monetary policy. Milton Friedman, who as a conservative economist was a lifelong intellectual adversary of the liberal Mr. Galbraith, said he offered work that was ''not so much economics as it is sociology.'' 
 Mr. Galbraith proudly wore the cloth of the heretic; he adored lancing what he saw as economic pretension. And in time, critics like this year's Nobel Prize winner in economics, the Times columnist Paul Krugman, came to embrace Mr. Galbraith's view that rising income inequality (a point Mr. Galbraith hammered on in ''The Great Crash'') was not simply a technical question -- as Mr. Krugman once argued -- but rather was rooted in power and politics.
 Robert H. Frank, a visiting scholar at New York University's Stern School of Business and author of ''Luxury Fever: Why Money Fails to Satisfy in an Era of Excess,'' says that Mr. Galbraith should have won the Nobel Prize. He ''was right about a lot of the big things, but he didn't offer the sort of reasons and theories that passed muster with neoclassical economics.'' 
 What was foolish in the human condition never failed to amuse Mr. Galbraith, and tends to echo today, for example when he pokes at the financial experts and Fed bankers whose soft purrings about the ''fundamental soundness'' of the economy encouraged Americans toward the 1929 precipice:
 ''In the autumn of 1929, the mightiest of Americans were, for a brief time, revealed as human beings. Like most humans, most of the time, they did some very foolish things. On the whole, the greater the earlier reputation for omniscience, the more serene the previous idiocy, the greater the foolishness now exposed.''
 In that distant age so much sounds as if recorded yesterday, if more poetically. The academic urge to unearth new paradigms and forecast bounteous levels of stock wealth seems eternal. In 1999, a year before the tech bubble popped, two authors offered ''Dow 36,000,'' a book that forecast that the stock market could triple within five years. That did not happen.
 And in November 1929, the Harvard Economic Society offered this serene forecast: ''A severe depression is outside the range of probability. We are not facing protracted liquidation.''
 This view, Mr. Galbraith noted, ''the Society reiterated until it was liquidated.''
 Wealth, and the mania for more, infiltrated every corner of 1920s culture, a phenomenon as recognizable to the habitues of TriBeCa lofts in 2005 as to the flapper. Mr. Galbraith noted in particular the rise of the literate broker.
 ''Now these men, even in the company of artists, playwrights, poets and beautiful concubines, suddenly shone forth,'' Mr. Galbraith wrote. ''Their words, more or less literally became golden. Their audience listened not with the casual heed of people who are collecting quotable epigrams, but with the truly rapt attention of those who expect to make money by what they hear.'' 
 Still Mr. Galbraith recoiled from the censorious. He was not inclined toward corporate defenestration. Bubbles breed greed, which in turn breeds complicity in banker suites, hucksters and the common man or woman intent on capturing a gilded thimbleful of that wealth.
 The populist urge to hoist a banker -- or perhaps in modern terms an A.I.G. executive -- from a lamppost is primal but not particularly useful.
 ''Despite a flattering supposition to the contrary, people come readily to terms with power,'' Mr. Galbraith wrote. ''There is little reason to think that the power of the great bankers, while they were assumed to have it, was much resented. But as the ghosts of numerous tyrants from Julius Caesar to Benito Mussolini will testify, people are very hard on those who, having had power, lose it or are destroyed.''
 Mr. Galbraith did not lack for ego, but he warned against reading his account as premonition. American capitalism pitches into a ditch from time to time, but a Great Depression is a rare event. As Mr. Galbraith noted at his book's end: ''One of the pregnant lessons of that year will by now be plain: It is that very specific and personal misfortune awaits those who presume to believe that the future is revealed to them.''
 By the same measure, however, the immunizing memory of that particular year seems long ago to have expired, just as a new year threatens to brand itself in consciousness.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THINGS COULD BE WORSE The '29 crash was the big one
 a lot of ink has been spilled over it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FPG/HULTON ARCHIVE -- GETTY IMAGES)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); HISTORY (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); US 401K PLANS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

TITLE: Great Crash, 1929, The (Book)>; Great Crash, 1929, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



408 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Rice in West Bank City As U.S. Announces Aid

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: JENIN, West Bank 

 BODY:
In the first visit by an American secretary of state to the city of Jenin, a once-infamous hub of Palestinian militancy, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sought to strike a positive chord at the close of what will probably be her last official trip to Israel and the Palestinian territories.
 Ms. Rice has acknowledged that the Israeli-Palestinian peace process is unlikely to achieve its goal of an agreement by the end of the year and has devoted this trip to other aspects of the process, chiefly the building of reliable Palestinian institutions in preparation for a state. 
 Also on Saturday, the militant group Hamas, which controls the Palestinian territory of Gaza, said it would boycott negotiations with the rival group Fatah, and Egypt canceled the talks, which were scheduled to begin Monday. 
 Ms. Rice spent three hours in the newly transformed city of Jenin on Saturday and inaugurated a hospital wing renovated with American funds. 
 During the visit, the State Department also announced a new round of American government assistance to Jenin totaling $14 million, much of it to be spent on road improvements and other infrastructure and educational projects in the area. 
 Until recently Jenin was a forbidden zone for foreign dignitaries. The scene of a bloody battle between Israeli forces and Palestinian gunmen in 2002, it came to represent the capital of terrorism for many Israelis, and, for many Palestinians, a symbol of resistance.
 Today, though, Jenin is a showcase of success for the Palestinian Authority, following a law and order campaign this spring by specially trained Palestinian security forces, and an example of how a particularly thorny situation can be turned around. 
 With the peace process, which started at an American-sponsored conference in Annapolis, Md., last fall, now up in the air, Ms. Rice focused on the most tangible and visible evidence of progress, the reform of the Palestinian security apparatuses and their efforts here in Jenin. 
 Even under difficult circumstances and despite the city's difficult past, Ms. Rice told reporters at a joint news conference here with the Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad: ''This is a place of hope. This is a place of inspiration.''
 She said, ''Ultimately, it is ''a place from where the Palestinian state will spring up.'' 
 Palestinians came out to gawk as the secretary's motorcade sped into the city along a potholed road lined with members of several Palestinian security units in various uniforms. 
 About 600 Palestinian security personnel members were deployed in Jenin in May, some of whom were trained in Jordan under an American-sponsored program to back up the forces already there. Most have since been redeployed to other parts of the West Bank, including Hebron.
 Lt. Gen. Keith W. Dayton, the United States security coordinator, told reporters that the exercise had been a ''great success,'' and that the Israelis said they had reduced their incursions into Jenin by about 40 percent. 
 Mr. Fayyad said the Palestinians would continue to build the institutions of statehood ''despite the Israeli occupation.'' But he warned that without a political agreement, the measures on the ground would be seen increasingly as ''improving the quality of the occupation'' and ''beautifying it.''
 Ms. Rice did not say whether this would be her last trip to the region as secretary of state, but the whole visit, which began Thursday, had an air of finality about it. 
 On Saturday evening she met with Egyptian officials and the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, in Sharm el Sheik, Egypt. On Sunday, she is scheduled to meet with senior representatives of the quartet of Middle East peace mediators -- the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia.
 The Bush administration is seeking to buttress international support for the Annapolis process to try to ensure that it will survive the political transition in the United States and a possible change of government in Israel, where elections are scheduled for Feb 10.
 Tzipi Livni, the foreign minister and Israel's chief negotiator with the Palestinians, will be contending for the premiership against Benjamin Netanyahu, the leader of the right-wing opposition.
 After meeting with Ms. Rice in Jerusalem on Friday, Mr. Netanyahu told reporters that he intended to propose a ''new path'' for peace with the Palestinians combining some kind of political track with hastened economic development.
 Also on Saturday, Egypt announced the cancellation of reconciliation talks between the rival Palestinian groups Fatah and Hamas, which were supposed to start under its auspices on Monday. 
 Hamas had said it was boycotting the talks because the Palestinian Authority, headed by President Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, had refused to release the Islamic group's political prisoners in the West Bank. 
 Both Mr. Abbas and Mr. Fayyad denied that the authority made any arrests based on political affiliations, saying it had detained people for only security or criminal offenses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); AL FATAH (78%); HAMAS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); TERRORISM (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (53%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (53%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



409 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Show Me The Money

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
So, I was speaking to an Iranian friend about what a mind-bending thing it must be for people in the Middle East to see Americans, seven years after 9/11, electing someone named Barack Hussein Obama as president. America is surely the only nation that could -- in the same decade -- go to war against a president named Hussein (Saddam of Iraq), threaten to use force against a country whose most revered religious martyr is named Hussein (Iran) and then elect its own president who's middle-named Hussein.
 Is this a great country or what? 
 Much has been written about how people all around the world are celebrating the victory of our Hussein -- Barack of Illinois, whose first name means ''blessing'' in Arabic. It is, indeed, a blessing that so many people in so many places see something of themselves reflected in Obama, whether in the color of his skin, the religion of his father, his African heritage, his being raised by a single mother or his childhood of poverty. And that ensures that Obama will probably have a longer than usual honeymoon with the world.
 But I wouldn't exaggerate it. The minute Obama has to exercise U.S. military power somewhere in the world, you can be sure that he will get blowback. For now, though, his biography, demeanor and willingness to at least test a regime like Iran's with diplomacy makes him more difficult to demonize than George W. Bush and Dick Cheney. 
 ''If you're a hard-liner in Tehran, a U.S. president who wants to talk to you presents more of a quandary than a U.S. president who wants to confront you,'' remarked Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran expert at the Carnegie Endowment. ''How are you going to implore crowds to chant 'Death to Barack Hussein Obama'? That sounds more like the chant of the oppressor, not the victim. Obama just doesn't fit the radical Islamist narrative of a racist, blood-thirsty America, which is bent on oppressing Muslims worldwide. There's a cognitive dissonance. It's like Hollywood casting Sidney Poitier to play Charles Manson. It just doesn't fit.''
 But while the world appears poised to give Obama a generous honeymoon, there lurks a much more important question: How long of a honeymoon will Obama give the world? 
 To all those Europeans, Canadians, Japanese, Russians, Iranians, Chinese, Indians, Africans and Latin Americans who are e-mailing their American friends about their joy at having ''America back,'' now that Obama is in, I just have one thing to say: ''Show me the money!''
 Don't just show me the love. Don't just give me the smiles. Your love is fickle and, as I said, it will last about as long as the first Obama airstrike against an Al Qaeda position in Pakistan. No, no, no, show me the money. Show me that you are ready to be Obama stakeholders, not free-riders -- stakeholders in what will be expensive and difficult initiatives by the Obama administration to keep the world stable and free at a time when we have fewer resources.
 Examples: I understand any foreigner who objected to the U.S. invasion of Iraq and the gross mishandling of the postwar. But surely everyone in the world has an interest in helping Obama, who opposed the war, bring it to a decent and stable end, especially now that there is a chance that Iraq could emerge as the first democracy, albeit messy, in the heart of the Arab-Muslim world. Obama was against how this Iraq war started, but he is going to be held responsible for how it ends, so why don't all our allies now offer whatever they can -- money, police, aid workers, troops, diplomatic support -- to increase the odds of a decent end in Iraq? Ditto Afghanistan. 
 The U.N. says it doesn't want Iran to go nuclear and doesn't want the U.S. to use force to prevent Iran from going nuclear. I agree. That's why I want all those people in China, France, Russia, India and Germany who are smiling for Obama to go out and demand that their governments use their tremendous economic leverage with Iran to let the Iranians know that if Tehran continues to move toward a nuclear weapon, in opposition to U.N. resolutions, these countries will impose real economic sanctions. Nothing -- and I mean nothing -- would more help President-elect Obama to forge a diplomatic deal with Iran than having a threat of biting Chinese, Indian and E.U. economic sanctions in his holster.
 President Bush, because he was so easily demonized, made being a free-rider on American power easy for everyone -- and Americans paid the price. Obama will not make it so easy.
 So to everyone overseas I say: thanks for your applause for our new president. I'm glad you all feel that America ''is back.'' If you want Obama to succeed, though, don't just show us the love, show us the money. Show us the troops. Show us the diplomatic effort. Show us the economic partnership. Show us something more than a fresh smile. Because freedom is not free and your excuse for doing less than you could is leaving town in January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); CANADA (69%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



410 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: The Mood Always Matters, So Restore Confidence First

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN

 BODY:
HIGH deficits and a declining economy will limit the hand of the new president in many matters of economic policy. Health care reform usually proves more expensive than promised, and voters are in no mood for higher gasoline or energy taxes. Still, President-elect Barack Obama faces the very important task of restoring confidence in our nation's economy.
 He will need to appear calm and purposive, and to articulate to the American people the underlying economic strengths. Even if some of this is wishful thinking, there is a chance that positive attitudes will improve the reality on the ground. 
 Over the last several months, the Bush administration has mishandled this issue.
 Most of all, the ''Paulson plan'' to bail out the economy was not executed gracefully. The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., warned the nation that something terrible would happen if the plan were not passed; that terrified both Wall Street and Main Street. 
 The early version of the plan would have given the Treasury secretary almost unlimited powers, without checks and balances on his decisions. The market took that extreme proposal as a sign that the situation was truly dire. 
 After the scare came indecisiveness. Whether or not the Paulson plan was a good idea, no one articulated how it would work or why it was needed. The initial plan was then dumped for a successor plan -- laden with Congressional pork, by the way -- and then this second plan turned out to be less important, after it was passed, than the need for an immediate recapitalization of the banking system. 
 Along the way it was never clear what Congress favored or why, and the regulators appeared to be stumbling from one crisis to the next, scaring the American public along the way. Political uncertainty hardly caused the crisis, but politics made it much worse.
 EVEN if you believe the dubious proposition that an initial scare was needed to pass legislation, the time has come to patch up confidence. The federal government lacked a commanding presence during the early stages of the financial crisis. 
 Rebuilding confidence might seem a small matter, but it is not. The truth is this: America is a wonderful and magnanimous nation when it is a winner, but Americans are not used to losing and Americans are not used to panic. 
 Often we respond to negative events badly, so we need to be especially careful when we are in a losing or risky position.
 Very bad events can cause a panic among the citizenry or its leaders, which translates into subsequent bad decisions. For a classic example of a negative policy dynamic, look at 9/11. The United States lost 3,000 lives and a great deal of wealth and confidence. The government then took actions, most of all the Iraq war, which led to even greater losses. 
 We are in danger of getting stuck in another negative dynamic, but this time in the realm of economics. We might follow up the financial crisis with some worse responses and policies. 
 It's not just the country's future that is on the line. Despite the commonality of anti-American rhetoric, the United States sets the tone for much of the world. 
 If America is seen as turning the corner and stabilizing its economy, that will be a positive cue for many other countries. 
 The notion of a downward spiral of ideas and events is not unprecedented. Starting in the early part of the 20th century, the West experienced one awful event after another, including a world war, a flu pandemic and a major depression. The response was a global spread of totalitarian ideas, a loss of confidence in democracy and capitalism and, eventually, another war. 
 While today's world is far from this point, there is a small chance that we will move in an unstable and worsening direction. Steering away from it should be a priority for the next president.
 Rebuilding confidence won't be easy. If our next president seems flip or overconfident, observers will be skeptical above all else. Denying our basic economic problems will erode credibility, but those problems -- most of all our debt and a collapsed financial sector -- need to be acknowledged in a way that shows a path forward. 
 We need to avoid overreaction at the same time we need to return to feeling in control. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TYLER COWEN: Professor of economics at George Mason University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); LEGISLATION (68%); IRAQ WAR (60%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



411 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Harnessing a Cause Without Yielding to It

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS

 BODY:
The historic victory of Barack Obama contained many dramas, but none was more important than the climactic turn it symbolized in the present-day fortunes of two outsize forces in recent political history -- the civil rights movement and the conservative movement.
 Together they have probably been the most powerful engines of political change during the past half-century, but they have also exacted large demands from the two parties and their leaders. And it happened again in this election. 
 For Senator Obama, the fraught alliance between the civil rights movement and the Democratic Party was a persistent though unwelcome theme in this campaign -- whether it was the crisis occasioned by the recorded sermons of the Rev. Jeremiah Wright or the defeats Mr. Obama was dealt in the primary by blue-collar voters whose distrust of him seemed to replay the racial anxieties of the 1960s, when civil rights protest loosed a white ''backlash'' that divided the Democratic Party. 
 John McCain, for his part, was haunted by his uneasy and at times hostile dealings through the years with the movement conservatives who helped elect every recent Republican president. In choosing to solicit their support, Mr. McCain alienated the moderates and independents who ultimately deserted him. 
 The tangled nexus between movements and parties has been complicating American politics since the middle of the 19th century. To a great extent, both major parties owe their identities to movements.
 The modern Democratic Party was shaped by the populism of the 1890s, the antibusiness reformism of the 1930s and the civil rights crusade of the 1960s. The Republican Party was formed by abolitionism in the 1850s, anti-Communism in the 1950s, antitax revolts in the 1970s and 1980s and the evangelical conservatism of the 1990s and 2000s. 
 In each instance, a movement and a party came together. But the partnership was seldom satisfactory to either side. This isn't surprising. While movements are driven by specific causes (punishing ''robber barons,'' ending ''big government''), parties stay relevant by adjusting to new conditions. 
 This is why movement activists often think politicians are either spineless or unscrupulous -- and sometimes both -- while practicing politicians sometimes find movement activists more trouble than they're worth. 
 A classic example is the mutual distrust that festered between Abraham Lincoln and the radical abolitionists of his day. Lincoln patiently tolerated them even as they raged that he was an opportunist -- ''a first-rate second-rate man,'' in the opinion of the antislavery agitator Wendell Phillips, ''a mere convenience waiting like any other broomstick to be used.''
 In the end, Lincoln fulfilled most of the abolitionists' hopes -- as circumstances allowed. ''I claim not to have controlled events but confess plainly that events controlled me,'' Lincoln said in 1864. 
 The conservatives who today lionize Ronald Reagan forget how often he, too, disappointed them -- whether by increasing taxes or bargaining with Mikhail Gorbachev. ''So was the critical election of 1980 merely a mirage,'' Irving Kristol wondered in 1983, distraught that ''the administration bumbles along in foreign policy, in social policy, in economic policy.''
 These grumblings aside, Mr. Reagan managed to placate his movement followers most of the time. 
 Two other presidents, Lyndon B. Johnson and George W. Bush, entered the White House with reputations for being skilled politicians, but then took the unusual step of subordinating pragmatic political goals to movement ideals -- and they and their parties paid a steep price. Mr. Johnson's Great Society and War on Poverty programs, though popular at the time, later fed the resentments of white working-class voters who deserted the Democratic Party in the 1970s and 1980s. 
 Mr. Bush embraced the crusading vision of two powerful movement factions -- the neoconservatives and the evangelicals -- when he decided to initiate the Iraq war, which damaged his presidency beyond repair. 
 Both Mr. Johnson and Mr. Bush succumbed, it seems, to the unusual power of the movements that dominated their years in office. This is understandable since both governed at a time when the movements they were allied with were at peak strength. 
 LIKE abolitionism a century and a half ago, the civil rights movement in the 1960s and ideological conservatism in the 2000s each subsumed the most intense political, economic and cultural passions of the day. 
 And their histories are strikingly parallel. Both emerged in the 1950s as vehicles of protest built on moral and often religious arguments. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the Rev. Ralph Abernathy owed much of their authority to their exalted place in the church, as reflected in the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the civil rights organization they led.
 Prominent figures in the postwar conservative movement also made their case in religious terms. First it was anti-Communist Catholics like William F. Buckley Jr., Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen; later it was evangelical Protestants like Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson.
 Both movements reaped their biggest gains when they channeled their arguments into political action. Civil rights leaders sponsored courtroom challenges to Jim Crow and lobbied in support of causes like voting rights, equal housing and fair employment practices. 
 Conservatives likewise diligently worked through legal and legislative channels on a range of issues, from school prayer and abortion and gun ownership to attacks on same-sex marriage (with the latest successes coming this week) .
 Each movement did more than align itself with a party. It also played a major part in establishing that party's broadest aims and in shaping the values of its rank-and-file membership.
 The civil rights movement helped guide the Democratic Party toward an agenda of equal rights and economic justice. Movement conservatives led the insurgent campaigns that transferred power in the Republican Party from the East Coast to the Sunbelt.
 One telling difference between the candidates in this year's election was their contrasting approaches to the movements attached to their parties. Mr. McCain often gave the impression that he was at the mercy of the conservatives he had struggled against for so many years, while Mr. Obama harnessed the energies of the civil rights movement that made his candidacy possible and was able to balance its visionary ends with his pragmatic means.
 It is a performance he may have to repeat more than once over the next four years. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARTY PARTNERSHIP: Lyndon Johnson joined the Democrats to Martin Luther King Jr.'s civil rights movement, much as Ronald Reagan harnessed Jerry Falwell's evangelical conservatives for the Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE BY, HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES
 BELOW BY CHARLES TASNADI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SLAVERY (72%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



412 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: He Helped Elect a President; Now Comes a Harder Job

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: CORVALLIS, Ore. 

 BODY:
With a hint of 5 o'clock shadow and small bags under his eyes, Oregon State Coach Craig Robinson took the basketball court on Wednesday to start a campaign that is nearly as daunting as the one he just helped to complete. 
 For the past 20 months, Robinson assisted his brother-in-law Barack Obama's bid for the presidency. Robinson stumped in Iowa, gave speeches in Washington State and did interviews about his childhood on Chicago's South Side with his younger sister, Michelle, who is married to Obama. 
 All that work culminated in one magical Tuesday for Robinson and his family as they ate dinner at the Obamas' house on election night and later exchanged congratulatory hugs onstage at Grant Park in Chicago. 
 ''I've been so busy, I haven't been able to process it yet,'' Robinson said less than 24 hours later as he sat on the bleachers at Gill Coliseum after practice. ''It's wild. I don't know what to say.'' 
 Now that the Obamas are preparing to enter the White House and Robinson can devote all his energy to his first season at Oregon State, Robinson and the president-elect can debate about whose task is tougher. 
 ''Before this whole economy thing, I would have said that we had a bigger rebuilding job,'' Robinson said of Oregon State. ''But this economy thing puts him over the top, hands down. He's got the economy, and you can throw in the housing crisis and the war. He's got more on his plate than I do.'' 
 Robinson simply inherited an Oregon State program that is coming off an 0-18 season in the Pacific-10, carrying a 21-game losing streak and looking for its first N.C.A.A. tournament appearance since 1990. 
 Robinson installed the Princeton-style offense that he used to lead Brown to a team-record 19 victories last season. He also brought many of the themes prevalent in the Obama campaign: change, hope and reform. 
 Robinson's players at Brown said he went out of his way to separate politics and basketball. He would walk a block from his office on Hope Street and duck into the Blue State Coffee shop to talk politics. (Jesse Agel, Brown's new coach, said he would send Robinson a pound of Blue State Coffee, with its ''drink liberally'' slogan, to congratulate him.) 
 Although Robinson was happy to discuss politics with anyone who asked, he would never start the conversation. But as Robinson went from coaching in the Ivy League to coaching in the Pac-10 and his brother-in-law went from representing Illinois in the Senate to being elected the nation's 44th president, those discussions are becoming harder to avoid. 
 He called his connections the ''white elephant'' in the room, and his Pac-10 rivals are wondering just how much his ties to Obama will help him in recruiting. Robinson said that if it helped him land a recruit, he would be the first one to say so. 
 ''I want my players to know that I'm recruiting them to play basketball at Oregon State,'' Robinson said, ''and to the extent that my network can help them after college, if you come play for me, you're part of my network. I think people can figure that out without me hitting them over the head with it.''
 Robinson has received commitments from two highly regarded high school seniors: shooting guard Roberto Nelson and center Joe Burton. 
 Nelson, considered one of the country's top 75 recruits, chose the Beavers over perennial powers like U.C.L.A., Ohio State, Florida and Southern California. Burton had looks from Tennessee, Florida and Marquette. 
 Nelson's outgoing cellphone voice mail message showed that Robinson's political connections did not hurt. The message included the passage: ''I'm probably watching the presidential election. You know my man Barack Obama over here taking it to John McCain.'' 
 But Robinson offers more to recruits, as his story is one of the most fascinating of any college basketball coach. After graduating from Princeton, where he played for Pete Carril and was twice named the Ivy League player of the year, Robinson wanted to coach.
 Carril laughed as he recalled telling him that coaching would waste Robinson's talents. Instead, he went to graduate school and succeeded in the financial world, including spending seven years as a vice president at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
 But the six-bedroom house, high-six-figure salary and luxurious vacations lost their appeal, and Robinson decided nine years ago while in a cab in Chicago to take an assistant's job on Bill Carmody's staff at Northwestern. He made a tenth of his previous salary, but said he felt whole again. 
 That job eventually led Robinson to Brown, where in two seasons he overhauled the program with his work ethic, tough love and relentless demands on his players. He put a dictionary in the locker room for players to look up the words he used -- a tradition that has continued at Oregon State, where the word guile has become a buzzword -- and adopted a few campaign catchphrases of his own. At Brown's practice on Monday night, a few Bears players wore T-shirts with the slogans ''Make Shots'' and ''Cut Hard.'' 
 ''He left us the confidence to go into any gym and not just compete, but to win,'' said Agel, an assistant to Robinson for two seasons. ''He did that by giving us his toughness and competitiveness, and his will to get it done. He's going to do that to Oregon State. He's going to have them, in no time, believing that they can go into any Pac-10 arena and come out with a victory.'' 
 The Brown senior Chris Skrelja assessed Robinson's impact this way: ''The name Brown means a lot more than it did four years ago. Four years ago, it was at best a midlevel Ivy League school.''
 Oregon State has a long way to go to reach the middle of the Pac-10 pack. Robinson found a group ready to listen after it endured a 6-25 record last season. Guard Josh Tarver said that a loss to Division II Alaska-Fairbanks in November set the tone for the season, as players screamed at coaches in the locker room and coaches screamed at players. 
 ''It was a rough year,'' Tarver said. ''It was chaos.'' 
 Seemingly craving some discipline, the players set up voluntary 6 a.m. weight-lifting sessions this summer after they found out about Robinson's 5:30 a.m. practices. When a freshman arrived late for lifting, the entire team ran sprints as punishment to teach accountability. The same group punishments apply when a player shows up late for tutoring. 
 ''This is about the rest of their life,'' Robinson said. ''Most of these guys are not going to be pros, but they're going to have to get up and go to work and be on time and be accountable.''
 That message has started to sink in. No one was late for 5:30 a.m. practice in the first three weeks. 
 ''We're too scared to see what he'd do,'' the sophomore forward Omari Johnson said with a laugh. ''Way too scared.'' 
 Obama said Robinson's discipline and diligence enhanced his presidential campaign. 
 ''Craig doesn't profess to know the specifics of politics the way he knows the X's and O's of basketball,'' Obama said in a statement last week. ''But I think what he does understand is the need to wake up every morning doing your best and having a positive attitude. And him communicating that to me was always very helpful.''
 In a fitting twist, Oregon State's first regular-season game under Robinson is Friday at Howard University in Washington, the future home of the Obamas. Robinson joked that he wished he had been clever enough to create that matchup. 
 Pac-10 teams rarely play on the road against a lesser team like Howard. But the previous staff had scheduled it for the junior Calvin Hampton, who is from Maryland. 
 ''There's going to be so much pressure on them,'' Robinson said of his players and the expected circuslike atmosphere surrounding the game. ''But you know what? If you're going to win games on the road in the Pac-10, then you have to win these kinds of games. We might as well just do it.'' 
 Now that the pressure of the election is off, Robinson's job is to bring change to Oregon State. His campaign kicks off Friday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Craig Robinson, the new basketball coach at Oregon State and Barack Obama's brother-in-law, directed a 5:30 a.m. practice two days after the election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN GARDNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Barack Obama with Craig Robinson, his brother-in-law, at a town-hall meeting in Oregon during the presidential primaries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE ELY/THE OREGONIAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.SP10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) OREGON, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



413 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: It's a Time to Listen, and to Obey the Laws of Arithmetic

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW

 BODY:
IT was a good campaign, and a historic victory. As the president-elect gets ready for new responsibilities, here are four ways to become a reliable steward of the economy:
 LISTEN TO THE ECONOMISTS During the campaign, Senator Barack Obama assembled an impressive team of economic advisers from the nation's top universities, including Austan D. Goolsbee of the University of Chicago and David Cutler and Jeffrey Liebman of Harvard. The campaign's director of economic policy, Jason Furman, is a smart, sensible and well-trained policy economist. I know: he is a former student of mine. 
 It would be a good idea to pay close attention to what they have to say. They will often give advice quite different from what will be coming from the Congressional leaders Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid. To make sure the views of economic advisers are heard, they should have offices close to the Oval Office. The chief of staff should invite them to all the relevant meetings. 
 EMBRACE SOME REPUBLICAN IDEAS No party has a monopoly on truth. It would be wise to adopt the best Republican policy proposals, as Bill Clinton did with welfare reform in 1996.
 Health policy is a case in point. 
 Over the past several months, Senator Obama lambasted Senator John McCain's proposal to reform the tax code to include a refundable health insurance tax credit. But long before Mr. McCain ever proposed this idea, it was advanced by Mr. Furman, the Obama campaign's policy director. He can explain why the Furman-McCain plan makes a lot of sense.
 Now the new president may decide that this plan does not go far enough. He may want a more generously funded social safety net to help the less fortunate get health care. Fair enough, but in pursuing that goal, he will run into the next issue.
 PAY ATTENTION TO BUDGET CONSTRAINTS The nation faces a long-term imbalance between government spending and tax revenue. The fundamental problem is that the federal government has promised the elderly more benefits than the tax system can support. This fiscal imbalance will become acute as more baby boomers retire and start collecting Social Security and Medicare benefits.
 Yet during the campaign, Mr. Obama promised to cut taxes for 95 percent of Americans, to vastly expand health insurance coverage and never to cut Social Security benefits or raise the retirement age. The new administration will almost surely have to renege on some of these promises. As the economic team will often say, even if the laws of arithmetic are ignored during campaigns, they become a real constraint when making actual policy.
 RECOGNIZE PAST MISTAKES As a new senator, Mr. Obama voted along predictable left-wing lines. As president, he will need a more eclectic, nuanced approach. 
 Consider trade policy. In the Senate, he voted against the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement. He opposed free-trade agreements with Colombia and South Korea. He supported Senators Charles E. Schumer and Lindsey Graham in their quest to put tariffs on Chinese goods if China failed to revalue its exchange rate. He supported the Byrd Amendment, which encouraged domestic companies to file antidumping suits against foreign competitors. He supported subsidies for domestic producers of corn-based ethanol and tariffs on imports of more efficient sugar-based ethanol.
 The team of economists can explain why these positions were wrong-headed. Economic isolationism is not in the national interest. A high point of the Clinton presidency was the enactment of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which passed both the House and Senate with a majority of Republicans and a minority of Democrats.
 Last Tuesday, many people voted for Mr. Obama hoping that he would achieve the kind of economic success that Mr. Clinton enjoyed in the 1990s. The best chance of delivering what they want requires abandoning some positions and pursuing a more moderate, bipartisan course. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: N. GREGORY MANKIW: A professor of economics at Harvard who was an adviser to President Bush, and to Mitt Romney in his campaign for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination.
 Where foreign policy, trade policy and the economic crisis meet: a toy factory in China is just one more business that is suffering as orders fall sharply.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); RETIREMENT AGE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); MEDICARE (70%); TAX REFORM (69%); AGING (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); COLOMBIA (79%); CHINA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



414 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Remember That Capitalism Is More Than a Spectator Sport

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER

 BODY:
AMONG the daunting set of tasks ahead for the president-elect, perhaps the most basic is to restore a sense of fairness to and faith in our economic system -- much as Franklin D. Roosevelt did in the 1930s. 
 For too many years, too many Americans watched helplessly as the economic world passed them by, the top dogs prospered, and their national government either sat by passively or intervened to help the ''haves.'' No wonder trust in the system plummeted. It was hanging by a thread when the financial crisis erupted. Now, it has been destroyed. 
 An economy isn't supposed to work that way. Our celebrated capitalist democracy is designed to be a participation sport -- not a spectator sport -- and one in which the average American can still win. So the new president's most fundamental job is to restore the people's confidence that the economy will perform -- for them.
 While any new president would prefer a loftier starting point, Barack Obama will have to begin with the troubled Troubled Asset Relief Program. The way the Bush administration started it has left the $700 billion bank bailout in danger of becoming the most unpopular use of public money in the history of the republic -- unless something is done fast.
 If it's not already too late, the new president must convince Americans that the bailout is being managed for their benefit, not for Wall Street's. Because the first $250 billion or so is being doled out to banks without asking anything in return, this will be no easy task. Quick changes in the bailout program -- and I mean changes that ordinary people can understand -- are necessary.
 I'd start by sending a large dollop of that bailout money to Main Street -- literally. That means devoting substantial sums to refinancing home mortgages that might otherwise go into foreclosure, which is what the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Sheila Bair (bless her heart!), has been urging for months. The president-elect can be a powerful ally for Ms. Bair.
 There are a number of ways to mitigate the impending wave of foreclosures. To those who object that refinancing mortgages one at a time is too slow, Mr. Obama should have two replies. First, let's end the delays and get started. Second, the Home Owners' Loan Corporation took on a much larger task -- relative to the economy's size -- in the New Deal, and succeeded admirably. Can't we match the speed of the 1930s? Yes, we can.
 Next up, after reforming the bailout plan, is the Economic Recovery Act of 2009. Given the likely severity of the economic slide, a large dose of fiscal stimulus -- amounting to perhaps 2 percent of G.D.P., or roughly $280 billion -- is needed either in the lame-duck Congressional session this month or soon after Inauguration Day. The new president must guide Congress away from passing an unprincipled hodgepodge of members' favorite projects that would just remind the public of what's wrong with Washington. Instead, we need a bill that has clear objectives, is well designed to achieve them, does not do long-term harm in the name of short-run help -- and can be explained to the body politic.
 Regarding objectives, I'd suggest sticking to two: creating jobs by creating new spending, and alleviating the misery that accompanies deep recessions. 
 The first criterion points toward such items as more generous unemployment insurance and food-stamp benefits, because that money will be spent quickly. It also points toward grants and loans to hard-pressed state and local governments, so they don't cut their spending or raise taxes. Because this recession will likely be lengthy, not fleeting, a large-scale public infrastructure program -- with vigorous anti-pork provisions -- also makes sense.
 Again, the New Deal offers examples. Temporary institutions like the Civilian Conservation Corps and the Works Progress Administration provided much-needed jobs but also left a legacy of new public infrastructure -- the people's capital, if you will.
 The second criterion again points toward more generous unemployment insurance and food-stamp benefits, but also toward policies like these: expanded trade adjustment assistance for displaced workers, more home heating assistance for low-income households, broader health insurance coverage -- a step toward universal coverage -- and a plan that gets serious about job retraining. (Here, tiny Denmark may be a good model.) 
 These and related programs are often referred to as the ''social safety net,'' and America's is in tatters. But we need both repairs and a new metaphor. Lyndon B. Johnson had it right when he called upon the government to provide a ''hand up, not a handout.'' The Obama administration should seek to create a new ''social trampoline'' that not only catches people when they fall, but also propels them back into productive employment. If properly designed, such a social trampoline would both ease the short-run pain of recession and facilitate the long-run adjustment to globalization.
 And at every step along the way, Mr. Obama should make abundant use of the presidential bully pulpit to explain, to cajole and to bring along not just the Congress, but also the people -- just as Roosevelt did. Americans need to feel, once again, that it's their economy, and that the government is working on their behalf. Here, a little eloquence can go a long way. Fortunately, we just elected a man who has a lot. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALAN S. BLINDER: Professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He has advised many Democratic politicians. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (66%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); SHEILA BAIR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



415 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW TEAM; Pg. 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: James B. Steinberg

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

 BODY:
As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of profiles of potential members of the administration. 
 Name:James B. Steinberg
 Being considered for: National security adviser 
 Would bring to the job: Foreign policy experience at the highest levels of government, including as deputy national security adviser in the Clinton administration, where he earned a reputation for boundless energy and a mastery of subjects, but also for a short temper that sometimes intimidated his subordinates. Michael O'Hanlon, a former colleague at the Brookings Institution, calls him ''an incredible networker, but someone who masters the substance as well.'' 
 Is linked to Mr. Obama by: His work over the last several months as an informal adviser, helping to fashion campaign positions on the Israeli peace process, Iran and other foreign policy topics. He accompanied Mr. Obama this summer on his trip to Iraq, Afghanistan and other foreign spots. 
 Used to work as: A clerk to a federal judge; an aide to Senator Edward M. Kennedy on the Senate Armed Services Committee; and an analyst at the RAND Corporation in California. He held several top national security positions in the Clinton administration, including State Department chief of staff and director of the department's policy planning staff. Until 2005, he was vice president and director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution in Washington. He is now dean of the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas but has remained at the center of the Democratic Party's shadow foreign policy establishment. 
 In his own words: ''The next president will take office at an extraordinarily delicate and dangerous time in American history. He will face two ongoing conflicts in which U.S. troops are intensely engaged, our ground forces are overextended, and few good options seem available for stabilizing these situations to prevent wider conflict.'' -- From ''Difficult Transitions: Foreign Policy Troubles at the Outset of Presidential Power,'' 2008, co-authored with Kurt M. Campbell. 
 Carries as baggage: Does not have a longstanding relationship with Mr. Obama. His intensity can be off-putting, some former colleagues say, although he is said to have mellowed somewhat since his days in the Clinton White House. He currently lives in Austin, Tex., and would have to relocate to Washington. 
 Is otherwise known as : A voracious reader, fly fisherman, runner and workaholic who often rises before dawn to run several miles before getting to the office. He has several marathons under his belt. Was struck by a car while running in Los Angeles but has recovered from his injuries. 
 Resume: Born May 7, 1953 ... the son of a jeweler, raised in Boston ... earned an undergraduate degree from Harvard and a law degree from Yale Law School ... a lifelong Democrat, he worked on the presidential campaigns of Jimmy Carter and Michael Dukakis ... married to Sherburne B. Abbott, an environmental scientist ... they have two daughters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); JUDGES (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); HISTORY (64%); PEACE PROCESS (54%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); TED KENNEDY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



416 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: The Real Mandate Is to Bridge the Wealth Gap

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER

 BODY:
THE new president will have a clear mandate to redress economic inequality. During the campaign, John McCain made sure that voters clearly heard Barack Obama say ''spread the wealth around,'' and they elected him anyway. 
 Indeed, there has been a significant, decades-long trend toward greater inequality that needs to be corrected. The president-elect needs to seize the opportunity and to do something really effective to prevent inequality from getting much worse. 
 The financial crisis that afflicts the country is largely a result of speculative bubbles, built on false hopes, in the housing and stock markets. Many Americans thought that they would rise in the economic hierarchy from one or another of these investments, and their disappointment is profound. As dreams have been lost, the gap between the wealthiest and those struggling to provide basic items for their families will become more evident and more painful. 
 The best way to battle gratuitous inequality is to make our financial institutions better embody the true principles of risk management. Financial theory is all about incentives for people to work effectively, and diversifying against random shocks by sharing them among many investors. At its essence, finance is really more about helping and sharing than ''beating the market.'' 
 Traditional mutual funds and retirement saving plans, as well as insurance plans for loss of one's home due to fire or flood, or of one's income due to disability, are actually risk management vehicles that help reduce inequality. The new president's important mission should be to broaden these plans. 
 It may seem paradoxical to try to lessen inequality by relying on the institutions that are most blamed today, but it is only through these institutions that inequality reduction can really work well in a capitalist economy. Enhanced financial institutions could serve the real purpose that financial theory proposes: serving the people. 
 This would mean transforming the kind of ad hoc measures now used to help economically stressed people in the current crisis into permanent measures that are grounded in solid financial theory and augmented with an understanding of human nature.
 In my book ''The Subprime Solution: How Today's Global Financial Crisis Happened and What to Do About It,'' I outlined three areas of action that would democratize finance -- make it work better for the people -- and help prevent future crises. We must improve the information infrastructure, encourage broader and more robust risk markets, and develop better retail financial products. Each of these goals would require work by both the government and the private sector, and all would generalize and privatize the emergency measures already taken, so they become systematic.
 To improve the information infrastructure, we need to subsidize financial advice for the common man. The crisis we are in is largely due to investor ignorance. Some emergency measures, like the Hope Now Alliance, have been set up essentially to offer such help, but these will presumably be dismantled after the crisis, and they are not well designed for serving investors' broad needs. We need some permanent subsidies to get the full scope of financial advice out to the people.
 Second, we need to broaden financial markets to improve risk management. We need sophisticated systems that will act as insurance plans against unexpected risks. The government could lead the way to a historic development of financial infrastructure. 
 Third, we need to change retail financial institutions, notably those that grant and service mortgages. Recent government policy has encouraged workouts for defaulting mortgages -- again an impromptu, after-the-fact measure. These workouts should have been spelled out in the original of what I have called a ''continuous workout mortgage.'' Then workouts could be systematic, automatic and free-market, with costs priced into the original mortgage rate.
 A fourth and more radical step would be to index the tax system to income inequality. The system would automatically become more progressive if inequality became more acute. Changes in tax rates would be made in the future, not now, easing the transition's shock to the public. Leonard Burman, a former Treasury official for President Bill Clinton and now head of the Tax Policy Center in Washington, has been working with me to transform this idea into a sketch of a program we call the Rising Tide Tax System. We found that if such a program had been instituted 30 years ago, even in a partial form, we could have lessened economic inequality. 
 In short, the best thing that President-elect Obama can do is to set up permanent new structures to harness the innovations of finance to improve people's lives on Main Street. Americans will support a president who works hard both to maintain incentives central to our capitalistic economy, and to ensure fundamental fairness. If Mr. Obama does both, he will leave a lasting legacy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROBERT J. SHILLER: Professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); TRENDS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



417 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: On a Battered Avenue, Hope Is Quite Nice, for Now

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 It was pretty hard to miss J. Brooks on the streets of Mount Vernon on Thursday night.
 This was not because Mr. Brooks, who is 50 and whose day job is managing a grocery store, was resplendent in an iridescent red suit that probably could have been seen by astronauts orbiting Earth and shoes so sleek and shiny they looked like polished torpedoes.
 No, he was drawing a crowd because of the treasures he pulled, one by one, from the bulging green suitcase packed with Obama-ware. And so commenced a sort of a post-election, on-the-street Tupperware party with, instead of Tupperware, hoodies, cigarette lighters, caps, berets and eight kinds of T-shirts. ''You have one of the T-shirts with Michelle?'' a man asked, and sure enough, Mr. Brooks pulled out a stack of the ''America's First Couple'' model. 
 ''You seen this one?'' Mr. Brooks asked, holding up an extra-large version of a T-shirt showing the front page of a mock newspaper, The People's Choice, with the headline ''The New Champ'' and a picture of Barack Obama having just decked his challenger a la Muhammad Ali after knocking out Sonny Liston. He went through them all, getting a particular response from the one showing Mr. Obama slam-dunking John McCain. He said he'd sold $5,000 worth since the election and was scrambling to keep up with demand.
 People stood and stared, basking two days later in the undimmed wonder of Election Day 2008.
 ''Not since Martin Luther King,'' said Gloria Thomas, a retired accounting clerk. ''Nothing else comes close. Martin Luther King saw it. I feel it. And here today the world is different because of it.''
 Certainly Gramatan Avenue, the faded main drag of this city, now about 60 percent black, just over the Westchester line from the Bronx, felt different. The Obama posters adorned storefronts all over town. Almost every clothing store had Obama T-shirts in the window. The Obama buttons were everywhere, on the backpacks of high school kids and the lapels of grandmothers.
 Llewelyn, who declined to give his last name, was visiting from Antigua. He thumbed through a stack of T-shirts at one of the stores, figuring he'd be in trouble if he didn't take one home for his girlfriend. He finally settled on one reading ''Change Starts Now.''
 Still, beyond the euphoria, it was a little hard to be sure what change people here expected to see in their own lives.
 For Jack Plummer, Josh Jackson, Shante Black and Mya Guzman, high school students waiting at a bus stop, the election was change itself: a black man was headed for the White House, proof that the world today looked a lot different from the one they thought they knew. 
 As for specifics, they threw out various thoughts: an end to the war. Better computers and equipment in their school. Prospects for better jobs. Still, for now, the election seemed too much its own miracle to focus too heavily on what comes next.
 For Mr. Brooks, the notion of change was about history as much as about the rapture of the moment. ''It's not about glamour or fancy rhetoric,'' he said. ''I see Obama as part of the legacy of Bill Clinton and Franklin Roosevelt.''
 Ms. Thomas was asked what she thought would change in her life, and she paused as if she had not thought about it before. 
 ''That's the very, very hard part,'' she said. ''But we need something. This street used to be beautiful. It had everything. If you couldn't find it here, you couldn't find it anywhere.''
 She looked down the street at mostly shabby storefronts, more than a few vacant. Among them were hair care shops, dollar stores and pizza joints, the splashes of color from the McDonald's and Dunkin' Donuts signs the most vibrant glimpses of life around. 
 A rare skeptic was John Garcia, a McCain voter from Corona, Queens, working on the window display at Joey'z Home and Beyond. ''Everyone's so relaxed; it's like the mood's completely changed, but what can he do?'' Mr. Garcia said. ''He's inherited the worst economy in history, or since the Depression, anyway. How long does it take to come back? Eight years? It's great that people feel better, but what can he really do?''
 Others figured change would take time, but it would come.
 ''God didn't create the world in one day,'' said Brian Alexander, a clerk at a clothing store. ''Obama's not God, and he can't do it in one day, either. I say just give the man a chance, and he'll be O.K.''
 A light drizzle started, stopped and started again. On the street you could hear the thump of bass notes, the clatter of the Metro-North trains, the scuff of heels on concrete. You could smell greasy chicken and fish from the local fish market.
 On Gramatan Avenue, you knew two things: The impossible election victory was the easy part. And if harsh realities, for a moment, are being bathed in a warm spray of good feelings, better too much hope than not enough.
 A man on the street held a toddler in his arms, both watching as Mr. Brooks unpacked his wares. 
 ''Obama,'' the little girl said, and everyone on Gramatan Avenue smiled.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Obama-Biden posters are all over Gramatan Avenue in Mount Vernon. Merchandise with the president-elect's name and image sells briskly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



418 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: November 9, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
DEEP IN TALIBAN TERRITORY,
A Push for Electricity
When up and running, the new 200-ton hydroelectric turbine for the Kajaki Dam, provided by the United States, will double the electricity supply to the towns and districts of southern Afghanistan and provide jobs and economic renewal to the most troubled and violent part of the country. But it is part of an overall project repeatedly delayed by Taliban attacks and logistics. PAGE A18
IRAQI SECTS LIMITED
Iraq's executive council ratified a bill that gives Iraqi religious minorities fewer guaranteed seats in provincial councils than the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq had advised. Iraqi Christians have complained that the bill leaves them underrepresented in provincial councils, and President Jalal Talabani hinted that he might veto the bill in the executive council meeting. But it passed unanimously. PAGE 21 
RICE UNVEILS AID TO JENIN
In the first visit by an American secretary of state to the city of Jenin, a once-infamous hub of Palestinian militants, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced a $14 million assistance package and sought to strike a positive chord. And the militant group Hamas, which controls the Palestinian territory of Gaza, withdrew from negotiations with Fatah, the rival group that controls the West Bank. PAGE A18
NATIONAL
WHAT A DIFFERENCE
Nine Weeks Can Make
Gov. Sarah Palin has returned a changed person -- 2012 presidential contender? political footnote? -- to a changed Alaska, one where oil revenues are below the level required to balance the state budget and tension continues over the fate of Senator Ted Stevens, who was convicted of ethics violations last month. PAGE 23
FIGHT LOOMS ON UNION BILL
Labor unions hope that having a friend in the White House will benefit their agenda, including their No. 1 priority, a push to get the new president and Congress to pass legislation that would make it easier for workers to unionize. But the nation's business community has already declared war on the bid. PAGE 25
H.I.V. SCARE AT SCHOOL
Life has been far from normal for students at the struggling Normandy High School in suburban St. Louis since they learned last month that as many as 50 of their classmates may have been exposed to H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. ''It's the only thing we talk about,'' said Jamar McKinney, a junior. PAGE 28
OBITUARIES
MIKE DAVIS, 68
His landlubber's vision of one day gripping an oar and skimming a rowboat through the gentle chop of the Hudson River inspired something of a movement to reclaim New York's waterways for recreational use. PAGE 38
NEW YORK
A LIFETIME OF STRUGGLE
For Police Accuser
Interviews with friends and acquaintances of Michael Mineo, who has accused police officers of assaulting him at a subway station, depict a man who lost both his parents to drug overdoses while he was young, who more than once lost the roof over his head, and who has had both a longtime ambition to be a rap artist and a series of run-ins with the police. PAGE 36
NOW WHAT?
A spike in Obama-ware -- T-shirts, pens, hoodies, buttons, caps and the like -- followed in the post-election elation in Mount Vernon, N.Y. But it was a little hard to see what specific impact people expected in their own lives, Peter Applebome writes. Our Towns. PAGE 36
SPORTS
LINEBACKER AT HOME
In a World of Strikes
While the N.F.L. is filled with Pro Bowlers, linebacker David Bowens is the Jets' pro bowler. Through all of his four stops in the league, bowling has been his constant, his little piece of home. It is a legacy from his stepfather, Frank Williams, a 62-year-old former professional bowler. PAGE 1
A NEW CHALLENGE
He spent 20 months trying to help his brother-in-law get elected president. That worked out. Now Coach Craig Robinson of Oregon State turns his attention to a program that is coming off an 0-18 season in the Pacific-10 and carrying a 21-game losing streak. PAGE 1
The Magazine
THE WHITE HOUSE,
And Imperial Presidency
The Bush administration expanded executive power, secretly and, many would say, unconstitutionally. Will the new president and a new Congress redefine who is in charge? Page 42
CHECK CASHERS, REDEEMED
Many low-income Americans were wary of banks even before the latest round of failures and takeovers. Is a semi-reformed payday lender the right guy to bring the urban poor into the banking system? Page 36
Questions For:
Ron Howard 13
Book Review
A QUIETER JIM CROW
In America's North
Most of the images from the civil rights movement are from marches and confrontations in the places like Memphis and Birmingham. In his new book, ''Sweet Land of Liberty,'' Thomas Sugrue takes an exhaustive look at the less-examined but equally pervasive role that unofficial but powerful segregation played in Northern life. PAGE 9
DOWN THE RIVER
Peter Ackroyd's ''Thames'' tells the story of the river that cuts through the heart of London, and teeters between morbid factoids -- where the desperate may best jump off a bridge, for example -- and lyrical evocations of the underworld. Miranda Seymour says that concluding chapters ''are extraordinary, perhaps the finest he has written in a prolific career.'' PAGE 14
T Magazine
A GLOBAL SUMMIT
In Columbia County, N.Y.
To house their growing collection of Chinese art, Christopher Tsai and Andre Stockamp commissioned an even larger work of art: an austere, corrugated metal weekend house in upstate New York, designed by the Beijing-born artist Ai Weiwei. PAGE 98
ARTFUL LODGERS
For six women, home life imitates art. PAGE 89
Arts & Leisure
TRYING VIRGINIA WOOLF
On the Stage, Again
Virginia Woolf has never been much of a stage presence, and attempts to adapt her fiction to the footlights have seldom been successful. But in 2006, Kate Mitchell's adaptation of ''The Waves'' played to sold-out audiences in London. Fresh from a tour in Britain, ''Waves'' makes its way to the United States and will run at the Duke on 42nd Street. PAGE 8
Travel
MAKING A CASE FOR
A Caribbean Getaway
The tourism industry in the Caribbean has been hit hard by earthquakes, hurricanes and a financial downturn that has made travelers scale back on their vacation plans. But there are still plenty of reasons to visit the islands, writes Austin Considine -- 39, in fact. PAGE 3
IAN FLEMING'S JAMAICA
Several of the best-selling 007 spy novels were largely or partly set in Jamaica, and the films for ''Dr. No'' and ''Live and Let Die'' were shot there. That's not a coincidence: Ian Fleming, James Bond's creator, spent his winters in Jamaica for nearly two decades, and its beauty, history and potential for danger made it a fitting backdrop for postwar espionage adventure. PAGE 8
Sunday Styles
GENERATION O
Gets Its Hopes Up
They are tech savvy, and log in to Facebook and share (overshare?) with their friends and acquaintances on MySpace and Twitter. And they campaigned, volunteered and voted overwhelmingly voted for Senator Barack Obama for president. But is the Generation O's logical next step disappointment? PAGE 1
DROWNING IN REDS
One of the ways to gauge the health of the American economy is to consult the Lipstick Index, a financial barometer which holds that cosmetics sales rise in direct relation to an economic downturn. (In case you were wondering, makeup sales are up 40 percent over the last few months.) PAGE 3
Sunday Business
OPEN THE DOOR
And Turn On the Lights
A new team in the White House can't right the country's economic ship overnight. But the new White House has the immediate opportunity to make sure that sweeping financial fixes are done properly, not just quickly. The first step: make the bailout more transparent. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
FIXING THE MESS
A group of economists discuss what can be done to fix the economy as the next president prepares to take office, and call on the new president to restore confidence in the markets, work across the aisle, help struggling American households and change what the government taxes. Economic View. PAGE 4
Automobiles
A SILVER SOUVENIR
Of Family Journeys
Robert La Rocca was 15 in 1966, and his Bronx family took a transatlantic cruise to his father's native Italy -- with his father's silver Cadillac Coupe de Ville convertible in tow. The car is of great sentimental value to Mr. La Rocca, now 59, who recently had it restored, if not completely. ''I'd rather have the original seats,'' rips and all. ''I made those marks,'' he noted. SPORTS, PAGE 9
Week in Review
SEEKING A POET
For the Great Mess of '08
''The Great Crash, 1929'' was John Kenneth Galbraith's well-respected if controversial history of that moment, which chronicled the collective delusions that led to it. Michael Powell writes that a look at Mr. Galbraith's work now reveals some intriguing parallels to our current financial crisis and the economic culture that has led to a parade of economic bubbles. PAGE 1
HARNESSING A CAUSE
Sam Tanenhaus writes that the conservative movement and the civil rights movement are the two outsize political forces of recent political history. Both have exacted large demands from the two parties, which was no less true this election. PAGE 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); RIVERS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RELIGION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); VETO (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); AL FATAH (72%); HAMAS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); ETHICS (64%); AIDS & HIV (63%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); JALAL TALABANI (55%); TED STEVENS (53%); SARAH PALIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



419 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: It's a Time to Listen, and to Obey the Laws of Arithmetic

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW

 BODY:
IT was a good campaign, and a historic victory. As the president-elect gets ready for new responsibilities, here are four ways to become a reliable steward of the economy:
LISTEN TO THE ECONOMISTS During the campaign, Senator Barack Obama assembled an impressive team of economic advisers from the nation's top universities, including Austan D. Goolsbee of the University of Chicago and David Cutler and Jeffrey Liebman of Harvard. The campaign's director of economic policy, Jason Furman, is a smart, sensible and well-trained policy economist. I know: he is a former student of mine.
It would be a good idea to pay close attention to what they have to say. They will often give advice quite different from what will be coming from the Congressional leaders Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid. To make sure the views of economic advisers are heard, they should have offices close to the Oval Office. The chief of staff should invite them to all the relevant meetings. 
EMBRACE SOME REPUBLICAN IDEAS No party has a monopoly on truth. It would be wise to adopt the best Republican policy proposals, as Bill Clinton did with welfare reform in 1996.
Health policy is a case in point.
Over the past several months, Senator Obama lambasted Senator John McCain's proposal to reform the tax code to include a refundable health insurance tax credit. But long before Mr. McCain ever proposed this idea, it was advanced by Mr. Furman, the Obama campaign's policy director. He can explain why the Furman-McCain plan makes a lot of sense.
Now the new president may decide that this plan does not go far enough. He may want a more generously funded social safety net to help the less fortunate get health care. Fair enough, but in pursuing that goal, he will run into the next issue.
PAY ATTENTION TO BUDGET CONSTRAINTS The nation faces a long-term imbalance between government spending and tax revenue. The fundamental problem is that the federal government has promised the elderly more benefits than the tax system can support. This fiscal imbalance will become acute as more baby boomers retire and start collecting Social Security and Medicare benefits.
Yet during the campaign, Mr. Obama promised to cut taxes for 95 percent of Americans, to vastly expand health insurance coverage and never to cut Social Security benefits or raise the retirement age. The new administration will almost surely have to renege on some of these promises. As the economic team will often say, even if the laws of arithmetic are ignored during campaigns, they become a real constraint when making actual policy.
RECOGNIZE PAST MISTAKES As a new senator, Mr. Obama voted along predictable left-wing lines. As president, he will need a more eclectic, nuanced approach.
Consider trade policy. In the Senate, he voted against the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement. He opposed free-trade agreements with Colombia and South Korea. He supported Senators Charles E. Schumer and Lindsey Graham in their quest to put tariffs on Chinese goods if China failed to revalue its exchange rate. He supported the Byrd Amendment, which encouraged domestic companies to file antidumping suits against foreign competitors. He supported subsidies for domestic producers of corn-based ethanol and tariffs on imports of more efficient sugar-based ethanol.
The team of economists can explain why these positions were wrong-headed. Economic isolationism is not in the national interest. A high point of the Clinton presidency was the enactment of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which passed both the House and Senate with a majority of Republicans and a minority of Democrats.
Last Tuesday, many people voted for Mr. Obama hoping that he would achieve the kind of economic success that Mr. Clinton enjoyed in the 1990s. The best chance of delivering what they want requires abandoning some positions and pursuing a more moderate, bipartisan course.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: N. GREGORY MANKIW: A professor of economics at Harvard who was an adviser to President Bush, and to Mitt Romney in his campaign for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination.
 Where foreign policy, trade policy and the economic crisis meet: a toy factory in China is just one more business that is suffering as orders fall sharply. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); RETIREMENT AGE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); MEDICARE (70%); TAX REFORM (69%); AGING (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); COLOMBIA (79%); CHINA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



420 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Giant Insurer May Get More In U.S. Bailout

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The Bush administration was overhauling its rescue of the American International Group on Sunday night, according to people involved in the deal, amid signs that the interest on its current credit line of more than $100 billion was putting too much strain on the ailing insurer.
 The Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve were near a deal to abandon the initial bailout plan and invest another $40 billion in the company, these people said. The government created an $85 billion emergency credit line in September to keep A.I.G. from toppling and added $38 billion more in early October when it became clear that the original amount was not enough. 
 When the restructured deal is complete, taxpayers will have invested and lent a total of $150 billion to A.I.G., the most the government has ever directed to a single private enterprise. It is a stark reversal of the government's assurance that its earlier moves had stabilized A.I.G. 
 The revised deal, which may be announced as early as Monday morning, is likely to intensify the debate in Washington over why some companies should be saved by the government while others are left to wither. 
 The money would come from the $700 billion that Congress authorized the Treasury to use to shore up financial companies. Just this weekend, Democratic leaders in Congress called on the Bush administration to drop its opposition to using some of that money to rescue Detroit automakers.
 The government's original emergency line of credit, while saving A.I.G. from bankruptcy for a time, now appears to have accelerated the company's problems. That short-term loan came with a high interest rate -- about 14 percent -- which forced the company into a fire sale of its assets and reduced its ability to pay back the loan, putting its future in jeopardy.
 The new deal would make the government a long-term investor in A.I.G., something that Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. had said he hoped to avoid. As part of the revamping, the government would lower the loan amount to $60 billion from $85 billion, lengthen the payment schedule to five years from two years, and lower the interest rate.
 At the same time, the government, using part of the $700 billion fund, would buy $40 billion in preferred shares in A.I.G. In return, A.I.G. would pay a 10 percent interest rate on those shares, similar to the interest rate that banks agreed to pay last month when they received cash injections.
 The government is also planning to spend an additional $30 billion to help A.I.G. buy up a type of securities called ''collateralized debt obligations'' that the company had agreed to insure against default. As the insurer of those securities, A.I.G. has been forced to put up large amounts of cash as collateral as the global economy has soured and the securities seemed increasingly likely to default.
 Indeed, these securities, worth hundreds of billions of dollars, are held by institutional investors around the world, a fact that government officials have cited to justify saving the company using taxpayer money.
 The new arrangement calls for A.I.G. to put the securities into a new entity, effectively removing them from the company's balance sheet. A.I.G. would contribute $5 billion to the new entity, which would buy $70 billion of the securities at 50 cents on the dollar, or $35 billion. The remaining $30 billion of the purchase price would come from the government.
 Finally, the government would invest another $20 billion in A.I.G. to help the company buy residential mortgage-backed securities that it also insured, and similarly place them into another entity off the company's balance sheet. 
 The goal of both programs is to create separate entities to buy and hold the most toxic assets A.I.G. had promised to insure, so that if their value continues to fall A.I.G. would not have to account for those losses. The company has argued that the securities' falling value does not necessarily mean it has suffered a financial loss.
 Once A.I.G. buys the securities back from its trading partners, it will no longer have to provide cash as collateral under the terms of its insurance contracts -- and collateral has been eating up more of A.I.G.'s cash than anything else since the broad financial crisis began.
 A spokeswoman for the Fed declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the Treasury did not return a call for comment. A spokesman for A.I.G. declined to comment.
 A.I.G. negotiated the original $85 billion revolving credit line with the Federal Reserve after its efforts to raise money from private lenders failed in the panic of mid-September. The amount that it needed ballooned in just a few days, as counterparties to A.I.G.'s insurance on complex debt securities laid claim to whatever collateral they could get. 
 People briefed on the negotiations said the $85 billion was thought at the time to be the maximum amount that A.I.G. would need, including a little extra for a cushion. The interest rate was set at the three-month Libor plus 8.5 percent, which currently works out to around 14 percent. (Libor, or London interbank offered rate, is a commonly used index that tracks the rates banks charge when they lend to each other.) In exchange for making the loan, the Fed was promised a 79.9 percent stake in A.I.G.
 The $40 billion of preferred shares will not change the size of the government's stake in A.I.G., people briefed on the plans said.
 Edward Liddy, the insurance executive brought in to lead the company out of the crisis, initially said he believed the Fed money would be like water pouring into a bathtub -- a lot might be needed at first, but eventually the tub would be filled and the faucet could be turned off.
 Since then, A.I.G. turned out to need more money than expected, and it has not been able to sell subsidiaries quickly enough to pay down the loan as required.
 Even as the government works to solidify A.I.G.'s finances, elected officials have been demanding a fuller accounting of the company's business practices and executive pay structure. In October, the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, reached an agreement forcing A.I.G. to freeze payments to former executives. 
 ''I find it hard to conceive of situation that you could justify a performance bonus for management that virtually bankrupted the company,'' Mr. Cuomo said after the agreement was made.
 That agreement followed the revelation, in a hearing convened by Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, that the former head of A.I.G.'s troubled financial products unit, Joseph J. Cassano, had been put on a retainer of $1 million a month after being dismissed in February. 
 Mr. Waxman, as well as Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, have demanded that A.I.G. provide a more detailed accounting of its credit derivatives business. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:Martin Sullivan, former chief of the American International Group, testified on Capitol Hill in October.With a new deal, taxpayers will have lent a total of $150 billion to the troubled insurer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (68%); PREFERRED STOCK (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: MARTIN J SULLIVAN (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



421 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Market's Troubles Echo in a Building's Vacant Floors

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The elevators work fine, the views are great, the offices have been refurbished and no one is complaining about rats. In so many ways, the green-tinted, 41-story office tower overlooking Bryant Park seems a desirable address. 
 So why are tenants who rushed to rent space a year ago in the building, at 1095 Avenue of the Americas, rushing to break their leases now? 
 The answer says much about the increasingly precarious state of Midtown Manhattan's real estate market at a time when once-mighty financial companies like Lehman Brothers are disappearing and the slowing economy is driving the vacancy rate up and commercial rents down. 
 Though the building, once owned by Verizon, just went through a two-year, $250 million makeover, several financial firms that signed leases in 2006 and 2007 say they no longer can afford the rents or the cost of outfitting new spaces. Others are laying off workers or reorganizing their offices and no longer need as much room. 
 The first sign of trouble came over the summer when iStar Financial, a real estate finance company,decided not to move into the 100,000 square feet of space that it had rented on the 36th, 37th and 38th floors. 
 Several weeks later, Metropolitan Life Insurance, whose name is now in block letters over the tower's front doors, quietly began shopping for tenants to sublease 100,000 square feet of its space in the building, a quarter of what it signed up for in 2006.
 And last month, Centerline Capital Group, a suddenly struggling commercial property finance and investment company, confirmed that it would not be moving into its 100,000 square feet of space on the third, fourth and fifth floors. The company is negotiating with the landlord, the Blackstone Group, to buy out its lease or to sublet the space, said real estate executives who have been briefed on the talks.
 The companies signed leases for as much as $132 a square foot, when the market was near its peak. Despite the building's new glass skin, refurbished space and prime location at the corner of 42nd Street, many brokers say they would be lucky to get $95 a square foot today. The difference would translate into millions of dollars a year. 
 Neither iStar nor MetLife have found any takers.
 For landlords and brokers, the building has become a closely watched barometer of the commercial real estate market in Midtown, where the mercury is clearly falling. Although the rents being asked have hardly moved, brokers say that landlords are providing a menu of concessions that are substantially reducing the effective price. 
 ''It's definitely a microcosm of the last few years in the New York real estate market,'' said Peter Riguardi, president of Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate brokerage and advising company.
 The problems at 1095 Avenue of the Americas are not hurting Blackstone so far. The combined unused space of Centerline, MetLife and iStar accounts for roughly one-third of the 1.06 million square feet owned by Blackstone in the building, and the three companies are obligated to pay full rent even if they are unable to sublease the space. Brokers say that Blackstone would require the companies to pay dearly to break their leases. 
 But trouble could emerge if any of the companies tumble into bankruptcy court and stopped paying rent.
 Other tenants seem to be staying put. Dechert L.L.P., a law firm and the first tenant to sign a lease in 2006, is moving onto floors 25 through 31, and Bank of Scotland is occupying its two floors, 34 and 35. MetLife is moving into its space at the top of the tower, even as it tries to sublease its space in the middle. And Robert Alexander, chairman of the New York office of CB Richard Ellis, the real estate brokerage for the tower, said he had pending deals for two other vacant floors, 32 and 33.
 ''We're signing smaller deals at premium rents, and we look forward to finishing our leasing program,'' he said.
 Brokers familiar with the space offered by iStar, MetLife and Centerline say competition for tenants in Midtown is growing in part because there is ample renovated space available in other buildings. As a result, many companies are demanding rent concessions from landlords or are refusing to take on the cost of adding walls, carpeting and bathrooms to newly renovated space. 
 ''What's missing right now is the demand for raw space,'' said one broker, who requested anonymity because he was active at the former Verizon building and he did not want to alienate the landlords or other brokers.
 The building was constructed in 1974 with vertical white marble slabs and few windows to house switches and other equipment for New York Telephone, which became Verizon. In 2005, as rents and sales prices for commercial buildings were skyrocketing, the company put the tower on the market, with the exception of 234,000 square feet on Floors 6 through 12. 
 Equity Office Properties, one of the largest commercial real estate owners in the country, won a hotly contested auction with a bid of $506 million, more than Verizon had anticipated. At the time, many analysts suggested that Equity Office had overpaid, especially after the new owner started a $250 million renovation that included replacing the marble exterior with a glass skin.
 Equity Office, however, was betting that the tower would lure prime tenants and generate rents as high as $90 a square foot. And it was right: Rents escalated even higher as the vacancy rate in Midtown plunged and investors clamored to buy properties.
 Blackstone bought Equity Office for $39 billion in early 2007, at what turned out to be the height of the market. It sold most of Equity's New York buildings but held on to 1095 Avenue of the Americas. The firm signed leases last year with Bank of Scotland and Centerline for as much as $150 a square foot, brokers active at the tower said. MetLife's average effective rent, for floors in the middle and at the top, is about $100 a square foot, or $40 million a year, according to real estate executives familiar with the deal.
 The insurance giant had moved most of its New York employees to Long Island City in 2002, where rents were as low as $30 a square foot. But in 2006, MetLife reversed course, signing a lease to move about 1,300 employees from Queens into the former Verizon building. 
 But this year, the company reassessed how many employees were actually in the office at any one time and determined that it needed only 9 of the 12 floors it had leased in the tower. 
 So early next year, MetLife plans to formally market three of its floors, said John Calagna, a spokesman for MetLife. 
 Mr. Calagna said that the same number of people who moved into 1095 Avenue of the Americas two years ago, about 1,300, are now ''moving to less space.'' 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: A LANDMARK OF THE STRUGGLING NEW YORK REAL ESTATE MARKET: Some tenants at 1095 Avenue of the Americas who signed leases in 2006 and 2007 are now trying to sublease their space or buy out their contracts. (GRAPHIC BY GRAHAM ROBERTS AND SERGIO PECANHA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (Source: Real estate exectutives involved in the building) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); EXECUTIVES (62%); LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); METLIFE INC (55%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (72%); JLL (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); MET (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



422 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Some White-Collar G.M.Retirees Scramble as Health Care Is Cut Off

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors is living on borrowed time, spending more than $2 billion in cash a month and lobbying for a government bailout to keep it out of bankruptcy.
 And for about 100,000 of its white-collar retirees, time is about to run out on G.M.'s gold-plated medical benefits.
 To conserve its dwindling cash reserves, G.M. is eliminating lifetime health care coverage for its legions of retirees at the end of this year, leaving people like Ken Hewitt to fend for themselves in deciding how to cover their doctor's bills and prescription drug costs.
 ''Everybody felt like they were set for life,'' said Mr. Hewitt, 81, who retired from the former Chevrolet Engineering Center in 1982 and lives north of Detroit. ''It's been difficult, but the information they've given us has been beneficial. Still, when you get to be our age, it's tough to make any big changes like that.'' 
 G.M. has had little choice this year but to make deep cuts wherever it can, including benefits that were long considered sacred. 
 The move was announced in July as part of a package of broad cutbacks to increase the company's liquidity, including a 20 percent reduction in payroll for salaried workers and suspension of G.M.'s annual stock dividend of $1 a share.
 But even these and other measures have not been enough to stabilize the company's finances, as the auto industry suffers from a weakening economy and tight credit that makes it hard for shoppers to get loans. 
 On Friday, G.M. warned that it might run short of cash by mid-2009, and it is asking for federal help with greater urgency.
 G.M. has estimated that eliminating the white-collar retiree medical benefits, in addition to pay and staffing cuts in its current white-collar work force, will save the company about $1.5 billion annually. Union contracts prevent the company from revoking coverage for former factory workers. Ford and Chrysler already have cut health coverage for salaried retirees.
 In fact, paying the cost of hospital stays, surgeries and expensive drugs for retirees, a group now larger than G.M.'s active work force, is a major reason the company's financial woes are so great. G.M. says it spent $4.6 billion in 2007 on health care for its one million employees and retirees and their dependents.
 Many retirees say they are aware of the burden these costs represent to the company, so they do not blame G.M. for cutting them off. Even so, they lament the demise of such a valuable perk.
 ''If the company goes out of business, we'll lose everything anyway,'' said Richard J. Moore, 70, who held management positions at G.M. plants in New York and Illinois before retiring in 1991 to suburban Phoenix. ''You can't survive by giving away everything.''
 G.M.'s decision to halt health care benefits for salaried retirees at age 65 means that nationwide, former engineers, plant managers and executives are anxiously trying to decipher various combinations of Medicare and other insurance plans.
 For months they have been poring over stacks of brochures and sitting through sometimes-baffling sales pitches ahead of an enrollment window that opens this month and ends Dec. 31. Because G.M. told them it would cover their health care for life, few studied up on Medicare and other coverage options as they approached retirement.
 ''Some of these people have been on G.M.'s plan for 40 or 50 years, and now all of this is thrown at them,'' said Jack Dickinson, a G.M. retiree who runs the Web site OverTheHillCarPeople.com. ''People are highly upset, confused and totally lost. The Medicare system is very hard for older people to tackle.''
 Eliminating that confusion has been a major undertaking. G.M. scheduled 150 informational meetings in cities where its retirees are concentrated and hired a company called Extend Health to answer questions and help with Medicare enrollment. A company in Tennessee, My Part D USA, which provides personalized comparisons of different plans, has met with groups of G.M. retirees and is working with OverTheHillCarPeople.com to ease the transition.
 ''These people have never had to deal with Medicare at all,'' said Karyn Blake of My Part D USA, a Detroit-area native whose uncles owned Cadillac and Oldsmobile dealerships. ''They're hearing different things from different salespeople, and they're totally overwhelmed. I think they kind of feel abandoned.''
 Many G.M. retirees have simply turned to one another for help, by getting together with former co-workers who live down the street, sharing information on Internet message boards, or discussing the issue at meetings of the numerous G.M. retiree clubs in Michigan, Florida and other states.
 ''It's nothing that we ever had to think about before,'' Barbara Spencer, 77, who worked in payroll for Buick and retired in 1988. On Thursday, she attended a meeting of the Buick retirees club to discuss health care options. ''You don't want to make a mistake,'' she added. 
 To help retirees pay for their new coverage, G.M. is raising monthly pension payments by $300, which typically means $240 or $255 after taxes.
 The cost of replacement coverage varies, depending on a person's needs. Some find that they can get adequate benefits for about the same amount as their pension increase, but others must now find several hundred dollars more in their monthly budget.
 ''Anyone that thinks they can go out and replace insurance that you had with General Motors for $255 and get the same kind of coverage, I'd like to sell them a bridge in Wisconsin somewhere,'' said Mr. Dickinson, 65, whose irritation with G.M.'s move is apparent in the headline ''G.M. Robs Their Elderly Retirees'' on his Web site atop information about the changeover. 
 In recent months, he said, the number of visitors to the site has doubled and its membership -- for a one-time $25 fee -- has grown rapidly, keeping him and a small team of volunteers busy for many hours each day.
 Mr. Dickinson said G.M., regardless of its financial woes, was ignoring the steadfast loyalty that its retirees showed to the company by exclusively buying its vehicles and toiling there for decades.
 ''Many of these people had other jobs offered to them,'' he said. ''In 34 years with General Motors, I had many opportunities to go in other directions that were much more lucrative, but the promise of health care and pension for life was something that I had to consider.''
 None, though, can look at the uncertainty confronting those who work for G.M., Ford and Chrysler today -- along with the thousands whose jobs were eliminated -- and feel they are the only ones being squeezed.
 ''I just hope they can recover and come back,'' said Kenneth Shear Jr., 70, a former plant supervisor who retired in 1992 and now lives in Summerfield, Fla., in a community with a handful of other G.M. retirees. Mr. Shear was billed $52 to get a pacemaker several years ago, a $148,000 procedure, and never had to pay a health care bill in 31 years at G.M.
 ''I used to tell some of the guys that worked for me that this job is not going to be available to your kids,'' he said. ''I'm glad I had my career when I did.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dorothy Orr, left, 77, and her twin sister, Barbara Spencer, attended a meeting of the Buick retirees club Thursday in Flint, Mich., to discuss health care options for former salaried workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LABOR FORCE (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); DIVIDENDS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



423 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Interest Rate Is Cut Again in Taiwan

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Taiwan's central bank lowered its benchmark interest rate on Sunday, adding to a series of cuts in the United States, Europe and Asia aimed at preventing a prolonged global recession. It was the fourth time in two months that the bank cut rates. 
 The Taiwanese central bank reduced the discount rate on 10-day loans to banks to 2.75 percent, from 3 percent, effective Monday, the bank's governor, Perng Fai-nan, said at a news conference in Taipei. Taiwan cut rates twice in October and once in September.
 The move comes after other rate cuts globally. The central bank of South Korea on Friday cut its benchmark for a third time in a month. The Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan all lowered rates recently.
 Government trade figures released late on Friday showed Taiwan's exports, which are equivalent to about half of the island's gross domestic product, dropped 8.3 percent last month from a year earlier, the biggest decline in more than three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) TAIWAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



424 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye Seduction, Hello Coupons

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
SASHA TSYRLIN is a location scout who has spent decades finding sites to film television commercials. He used to spend his days in mansions and gated estates.
''You would go to big houses and pretend this is how the average American lived,'' he said.
These days, his job is significantly less glamorous. Now, advertisers want their commercials filmed in homes meant for middle-class or even blue-collar families, Mr. Tsyrlin said.
''The client always seems to have an emphasis on, 'A house is too fancy,' '' he added. ''They say, 'Well, we don't want the audience to think that only rich people can afford our product.' ''
As the economy rapidly deteriorates from flourishing to floundering, marketers are scrambling to remake their advertising so products seem affordable and sensible rather than indulgent and fabulous. For many big marketers, including automakers, retailers, consumer product companies and even financial services, a major shift in consumer psychology spells an end to the aspirational advertising that has dominated their campaigns for the last decade. 
There is a sense that expensive purchases -- even if consumers can afford them -- have become gauche, said Stephen J. Hoch, professor of marketing and director of the Jay H. Baker Retailing Initiative at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
''At times like this, you don't want to be as conspicuous,'' Mr. Hoch said. ''It's really rude.''
''Since when is overpaying a status symbol?'' asks a magazine ad for the 2009 Borrego sport utility sold by Kia Motors America. Prices for the Borrego, proclaimed to be ''a new kind of luxury S.U.V.,'' begin at under $27,000.
A campaign from Procter & Gamble compares a product that is part of its Olay line of skin care products with more costly alternatives.
Olay Regenerist Micro-Sculpting Cream, which costs less than $30, is ''more effective than the department store cream costing $350,'' an ad asserts. ''(You just don't get a chic shopping bag.)''
In the recent boom times, Mr. Hoch said, ''marketers were hesitant to bring up value overtly because they were worried about it diluting the aspirational aspect of the product,'' he added, but now they ''have to try something, because nothing else is really working.''
That was a reference to economic data that included the reports last week from the nation's largest retailers for sales in October. Almost every chain, from purveyors of haute couture to practitioners of the philosophy of piling it high and selling it cheaply, suffered percentage declines that reached double digits.
''We're starting to see people trade down, cut back on quantities, cut back on quality,'' said George John, the chairman of the marketing department at the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota.
Some brands seem to recognize their plight. The Target retail chain, for instance, is striving to play up the ''Pay less'' part of its long-time slogan, ''Expect more. Pay less.''
New television commercials look like the familiar Target spots that feature chic consumers reveling in their cool Target purchases. Now, though, there are paeans to the new reality, complete with price tags.
Watching a $13 DVD on the living room sofa is celebrated as ''the new movie night.'' A $59.99 bicycle is presented as ''the new commute.'' There are similar salutes to people who eat in rather than dine out, cut their children's hair and turn a backyard tent into ''the new family room.''
Consumer Reports magazine plans to take advantage of that behavioral shift by running ads on Nov. 24 -- timed for the start of the holiday shopping season -- that will offer a blunt warning about how much times have changed.
''Dear shopper,'' the ads will begin, ''There is no 'bailout clause' in your credit card contract.'' The ads are to conclude by urging consumers to avoid ''credit card trouble'' by consulting the magazine's Web site (consumerreports.org).
The trend toward frugality is sweeping along even wealthier Americans, or those Americans who still consider themselves wealthy after the last few months.
The well-to-do are ''making lists, they're planning, they're comparison shopping, they're starting to think more strategically,'' said Pam Danziger, president of Unity Marketing, a market research company in Stevens, Pa.
Even so, she added, ''many are simply staying out of the stores.''
So rather than pitch seduction, the perfume Tabu Forbidden is pitching a coupon for $5 off the purchase price. The drugstore remedy Emergen-C is not only about staying ''healthy year-round,'' it's about a $1 coupon. Reddi-wip is no longer about creamy indulgence, it's about saving 75 cents.
On the higher end, Bloomingdale's is advertising 50 percent off furs. Lord & Taylor is taking 60 percent off the price of diamonds. Expedia is offering a $200 discount to people taking trips around Christmas.
Another sign of the new austerity is a campaign for New York Life that began on Sunday. The ads strongly suggest that the perfect gift for the holidays is not mink or jewelry or a vacation, but rather life insurance, which the ads call ''the selfless gift.''
For example, a print ad shows a range of gifts from an ice cream cone (''I like you'') to a necklace (''I love you'') to a wedding ring (''I will always love you''). Under them all is the square blue and white logo of New York Life, wrapped like a present with a ribbon, and these words: ''You mean more to me than anything else in the world.''
''As your love has evolved, so have your gifts,'' the ad says. ''One hundred sixty-three years of experience and the highest possible ratings for financial strength help ensure that your loved ones will always be taken care of.''
In ''uncertain times, you stop and think about what matters to you,'' said Steven Rautenberg, senior vice president for corporate communications at the New York Life Insurance Company. ''People are looking for safety and protection and security and long-term guarantees.''
The campaign, which includes television, radio, print, online and outdoor ads, promotes life insurance ''in a way that doesn't denigrate the other nice things you can do for your family,'' Mr. Rautenberg said, but presents it as better than more material gifts.
''This is a message that has special value in times like these,'' he added, ''but does not fade when the economic clouds clear.''
New York Life plans to increase its ad budget by 25 percent in 2009 compared with what will be spent this year, Mr. Rautenberg said, to get across the idea of ''the selfless gift.'' The company will probably spend almost $30 million in 2008.
''Consumers right now are feeling very insecure,'' said Daniel Rabinowicz, president of the New York office of Taxi, the agency for New York Life.
''We don't expect President-elect Obama to come out and say, 'C'mon, America, go shopping for life insurance,' '' he added. ''But we think they'll be receptive because it has to do with one of the pillars of a family's financial security.''
To spread the concept of giving life insurance as a gift, Mr. Rabinowicz said, New York Life will do something it has not done before: buy space to run the campaign in the holiday gift guide advertising sections that magazines and newspapers carry in December.
Not all brands can play up value and thrift and expect good results, academics warned.
''Consumers are feeling very differently about their purchases, and they're feeling very differently about their economic situation, than they did months ago,'' said Tim Calkins, clinical professor of marketing at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management.
''The brands that will do well in this environment are your low-priced brands, brands that are very cheap and value-driven,'' he added. ''The brands that will struggle are the brands that ask people to step up, because people are not inspired to do that right now.''
That means brands hovering between cheap and luxe are ''in a really tough spot,'' Mr. Calkins said. He and other marketing professors pointed to Coach, Macy's, Target and Whole Foods Market.
''It's easy to compete on the low end because you just focus on very aggressive pricing and selling a fairly good product,'' he explained. ''The top will be O.K., too, because there's always people in this world with a lot of money.''
''If you're in the middle, though, that's where people are going to get crunched,'' he added, because ''that's where it gets pretty easy to trade down to the lower-end stuff.''
Will this new mood on Madison Avenue become permanent? After all, ads turned austere during previous recessions, and even during the Great Depression, and subsequently bounced back when better times returned.
''I don't think that'll last,'' said Professor Hoch of the Wharton School. ''We live in a very commercial, consumption-oriented world today, for good and bad, and I think it'll come back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISTOCKPHOTO)(B1)
A campaign for New York Life reflects the shift in tone, suggesting the best gift is life insurance -- not, say, a car or a trip.
 A Tabu Forbidden magazine ad now features a coupon. A campaign for New York Life reflects the shift in tone, suggesting the best gift is life insurance -- not, say, a car or a trip.(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); FILM (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (76%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (74%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); KIA MOTORS AMERICA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



425 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
HOLIDAY SCHEDULE The bond market will be closed on Tuesday in observance of Veterans Day; the stock market will be open. Bond trading will also end early on Monday ahead of the holiday. 
 SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY It is a light week for economic news. Reports will include the trade deficit for September (Thursday); the import price index for October; retail sales for October; business inventories for September; and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey (Friday).
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Last week's round of grim retail earnings will be followed this week by reports from TJX (Tuesday); Macy's (Wednesday); J. C. Penney, Kohl's, Nordstrom and Wal-Mart (Thursday); and Abercrombie & Fitch (Friday).
 Other reports will come from American International Group, Lion's Gate Entertainment, Midway Games, Nortel Networks, Pilgrim's Pride, Sirius XM Radio, Starbucks and Tyson Foods (Monday); Liz Claiborne and Tyco International (Tuesday); and Fortress Investment, Siemens and VeraSun (Thursday).
 LEADING THE BAILOUTNeel Kashkari, left, interim assistant secretary of the Treasury for financial stability, speaks to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association in New York at the group's summit meeting on the government bailout program (Monday).
 IN WASHINGTON The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing on modifying mortgages (Wednesday).
 The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee holds a hearing on the regulation of hedge funds (Thursday).
 President Bush convenes the global summit meeting on the financial crisis (Saturday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INVENTORIES (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SATELLITE RADIO (68%); IMPORT PRICES (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (83%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (69%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); MIDWAY GAMES INC (56%); TYSON FOODS INC (56%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (56%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE DE MEXICO SA DE CV (56%); SIEMENS AG (55%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (83%); AFT (FRA) (83%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (69%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); TSN (NYSE) (56%); PPC (NASDAQ) (56%); SIN (SWX) (55%); SIE (LSE) (55%); SIE (FRA) (55%); SIE (BIT) (55%); SI (NYSE) (55%); TYC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (69%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (56%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (56%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (56%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (56%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (56%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (56%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (56%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



426 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: NRG Leaves Door Open After Rejecting Takeover Bid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
NRG Energy, a power generator based in Princeton, N.J., said Sunday it had rejected an unsolicited takeover bid by Exelon, saying the offer ''manifestly undervalues'' the company. 
 The rejection forestalls, at least for now, the creation of what would be the largest power company in the nation, amid a wave of consolidation in the industry. NRG left the door open for Exelon to raise its price and said it was ''agnostic'' about being a buyer or seller.
 Exelon, one of the largest nuclear plant operators in the United States, unveiled its all-stock offer on Oct. 12, valuing NRG at $6.2 billion. Since then, Exelon's share price has slipped to $53.82, making the bid worth roughly $6.08 billion.
 NRG's shares have risen 31 percent since Exelon made its offer public. They closed at $23.86 on Friday.
 In rejecting the deal, NRG said its share price was undervalued and complained that its shareholders would own only 17 percent of the combined company even as NRG's business would contribute about 30 percent of the new entity's cash flow.
 In a letter to Exelon, NRG's chairman, Howard E. Cosgrove, and chief executive, David W. Crane, wrote: ''Your proposal, while undoubtedly an exceptional deal for your shareholders, is not at all right for our shareholders.'' 
 Combining the companies would create a power-generating goliath spanning the Midwest, the Middle Atlantic, Texas and Southern California. It would have a combined generating capacity of about 47,000 megawatts.
 Both companies run coal-fired and nuclear power plants, as well as some fired by natural gas and oil, and they are both seeking to build nuclear power plants in Texas. 
 Exelon has argued that the combined company would have the financial strength to build even more plants.
 While NRG said that its primary objection was the offer price, it also said it was concerned about the amount of debt the combined utility would be assuming. Exelon said that because of covenants on NRG's bonds, the combined company would need to refinance $8 billion in debt. With the credit markets still tight, the new debt would probably have to be repaid with an interest rate in the double digits. 
 Exelon has not yet secured the refinancing and has suggested that it prefers to negotiate with its bondholders. 
 ''We think the offer severely undervalues the company and, with the debt markets the way they are, it's not easily implementable,'' Mr. Crane said in an interview Sunday. ''In this environment, with what's going on with the credit markets, cash is king.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); TAKEOVERS (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); BONDS (66%); BOND MARKETS (65%); EXECUTIVES (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID W CRANE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



427 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: A Pill That Gets Harder to Swallow

BYLINE: By ROB COX and LAUREN SILVA

 BODY:
A Pill That Gets
 Harder to Swallow
 Poison is seeping back into the stock market. Depressed valuations have many corporate executives worried they've become takeover bait. As a result, the multiyear trend of companies dropping antitakeover provisions, or poison pills, shows signs of reversing. This could be bad for shareholders. 
 The last time the stocks suffered a severe drop, in 2001, 298 companies adopted poison pills. The number has dropped each year since, with just 42 companies in 2007 erecting barriers to takeovers for the first time. So far this year, 52 have. And those that already have pills are strengthening them. Ten firms lowered the shareholding threshold at which a protective arrangement could be activated, double last year's tally. 
 The reason is pretty simple. As stock prices have plunged, the possibility of an unwanted approach from a larger or better financed rival increases. This year, 22 percent of announced mergers in the United States have been hostile, according to FactSet MergerMetrics, up from 10 percent last year.
 Take United Rentals. In October the equipment leaser reduced to 15 percent the level at which an unwanted shareholder's ownership could activate its pill. In the few months preceding that decision, the stock halved to $10, despite a buyback at prices ranging from $22 to $25. 
 This is the same company that received a $6.6 billion bid a year ago from the private equity firm Cerberus. That collapsed when the credit crisis hit. Today, United Rentals is worth just $520 million. No wonder its executives are nervous.
 Conventional corporate governance wisdom states that poison pills merely entrench management. Historically, that's broadly been true. They were championed during the 1970s by the prominent lawyer Marty Lipton as a response to corporate raiders picking off lazy managers at inefficient conglomerates. 
 Proponents argue that companies with such strategies -- which typically allow boards to issue stock to dilute the shares of unwanted suitors -- manage higher prices to get when they do eventually sell. 
 Maybe, but that didn't happen at Yahoo. The Internet company, which adopted a poison pill, preserved the job of its chief executive, Jerry Yang, earlier this year but thwarted a $33-a-share takeover by Microsoft. The stock today trades at about $12 a share. 
 Investors assessing whether to swallow pills should make sure they're being adopted to ensure that shareholders get the best price for their assets -- not to keep underperforming executives in their corner offices.
 Time Out or Strikeout?
 Sam Zell's difficulty selling the Chicago Cubs doesn't augur well for Major League Baseball. Since Mr. Zell bought the Tribune Company last year, he has been trying to sell a 95 percent stake in the Cubs, who haven't won a World Series in a century. 
 There are plenty of reasons baseball team values should fall. Economic woes crimp entertainment spending. Media company stock multiples, like Disney and Viacom, have fallen by nearly half this year, according to Credit Suisse, on expectations that consumers are becoming thriftier. 
 Moreover, it costs $38 on average to see a Major League Baseball game, including the ticket and parking, according to the sports research group Team Marketing Report.
 Yet baseball valuations have gained steadily. The Yankees' value, for example, has grown 15 percent a year since George Steinbrenner bought the team in 1973, according to Forbes estimates. 
 It's unclear whether the team's value increased more in some years, but the gain suggests there hasn't been a big correction in baseball team prices. 
 Most teams don't earn much profit for their owners because players' salaries typically eat up the bulk of income. Any return on investment must come from capital gains. 
 The rest of the Major League club owners had better hope a lackluster Cubs sale is a result of the credit crisis and not a barometer of baseball's true value.
 ROB COX and LAUREN SILVA 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fans in Chicago love their Cubs. But buyers for the team are hard to find. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE SQUIRE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); MERGERS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (59%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (50%); SAMUEL ZELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%) ILLINOIS, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



428 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: Asian Stocks Rise Sharply

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, China 

 BODY:
Asian stocks surged on Monday, after the government announced over the weekend a $586 billion stimulus package aimed at countering the impact of the global economic slowdown.
 The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index surged 5.7 percent by midmorning to 1,846.97; Japan's Nikkei 225 was up 9,053.90 or 5.49 percent, and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong was up more than 640 points, or about 4.5 percent.
 Beijing had hinted it was planning a major spending package to help keep economic growth from falling too fast due to waning demand for Chinese exports in the United States and other major markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%) EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (85%) CHINA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



429 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Charley Aldridge and Jessica Lissner, art directors at AbelsonTaylor, Chicago, were promoted to senior art directors.
 Backchannel Media, Boston, is expanding its test of interactive television to additional local stations. WCTX and WTNH, Hartford and New Haven, Conn., both owned by the Lin TV Corporation, joined in the trial of the Backchannel interactive technology. The other stations taking part are WCVB, Boston; WJAR, Providence, R.I.; and WMUR, Manchester, N.H.
 John Bair and Vivian Connolly joined Guerilla FX, New York, in new posts. Mr. Bair becomes creative director, effects supervisor and director. Ms. Connolly becomes executive producer. Both had been at Edgeworx, New York, where they worked as a team. 
 The Clio Awards, New York, is teaming up with the People's Choice Awards to offer the public a chance to present a People's Choice honor to a Gold winner from the 2008 Clio Awards. Votes can be cast at pcavote.com through Nov. 17 for one of five ads for brands like Guinness and Sony Bravia. The award will be presented in New York in February 2009 at a reception that will start the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the Clios. The People's Choice Awards are produced by Procter & Gamble Productions and the Clio Awards are part of the Nielsen Business Media division of the Nielsen Company.
 Adam Cohen joined Concentric Pharma Advertising, New York, as senior vice president and creative director. He had been senior vice president and associate creative director at Saatchi & Saatchi Healthcare Advertising, New York, part of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe.
 CR Media, Singapore, plans to introduce in February a United States edition of its luxury lifestyle magazine, Prestige. Bob Guccione Jr. is serving as a consultant to the start-up publication, Prestige New York.
 Jeremy Dawkins joined Brandimage-Desgrippes & Laga as executive creative director, leading the New York office. He assumes duties from Renee Peete, who had been the New York office head; she left to pursue other interests, the agency said. Mr. Dawkins had most recently been managing partner at the design studio at Ito Partnership, New York.
 Decon, New York, a music and entertainment agency, started a creative marketing unit.
 Robin Seidner D'Elia joined MediaVest USA, New York, as senior vice president and group director at the Connective Tissue unit. She had been senior vice president for national television promotions and marketing at New Line Cinema, part of the Warner Brothers Entertainment unit of Time Warner. MediaVest is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.
 Sean Donohue joined Diccicco Battista Communications, Horsham, Pa., as creative director, a new post. He had worked at agencies including the Star Group and RB&T/RBT Strum.
 Michael Dumigan joined HC&B Healthcare, Austin, Tex., as managing director, leading a new London office. He had been managing director at Brand Create, London.
 The Eastwest Marketing Group, New York, was named the first agency of record for the Eco-Connect Bottle, sold by KleinCepts, Walnut Creek, Calif. Billings were not disclosed.
 Elysian Hotels and Resorts, Chicago, part of Elysian Development, chose the Chicago office of Zig, part of MDC Partners, as agency of record to introduce the Elysian brand globally, beginning with the Elysian Chicago. Spending has not been determined.
 Ryan Ford joined the Cashmere Agency, Inglewood, Calif., as director for creative strategy. He had most recently been executive editor at The Source magazine.
 Greg Harrison joined Pavone, Harrisburg, Pa., as creative director. He had been global creative director at Cheil Worldwide, Seoul, South Korea.
 Tim Mauer, chief operations officer at Relay Worldwide, Chicago, was promoted to chief executive. He succeeds Wally Hayward, chairman and chief executive, who left the agency. Relay is part of the Publicis Groupe.
 New Balance, Boston, expanded its agency roster by adding the New York office of Mother as its agency of record for lifestyle products. BBDO Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, will continue to handle performance products. New Balance did not provide figures for its ad budget by product type; the company spent about $15 million on all ads last year and may spend an estimated $25 million to $30 million this year.
 The New England Consulting Group, Westport, Conn., started a practice devoted to the management of private labels and store brands, which typically thrive in difficult economic times. 
 Stephanie Pigott joined Pirate Radio and Television, Toronto, as a director. She had been a producer and voice director at Six Degree Music and Production, Calgary, Alberta.
 Geoff Reiss joined Newsweek magazine, New York, in a new post, as general manager for Newsweek Digital. He had been chief executive at Associated Content, New York. Newsweek is owned by the Washington Post Company.
 Brooke Reynolds joined MayoSeitz Media, Blue Bell, Pa., as a senior interactive strategist. She had been at the Philadelphia office of Razorfish, part of the aQuantive unit of the Microsoft Corporation, where she handled online media planning and buying.
 The Starbucks Coffee Company, Seattle, became the 10th company to affiliate with (Red), the organization whose merchandise with the (Product) Red trademark helps raise money for the Global Fund to fight AIDS and other diseases in Africa. The partnership is part of an initiative at Starbucks called Starbucks Shared Planet, which carries the theme ''You and Starbucks. It's bigger than coffee.''
 Valerie Swatkow joined NYCA, Encinitas, Calif., as director for business management. She had worked at agencies that include Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 Steve Topper joined the Euro RSCG Discovery Group, Chicago, as marketing director, a new post. He had been a consultant for Experian, Schaumburg, Ill., and before that worked at agencies like Draft FCB and companies like Analytic Innovations. The Euro RSCG Discovery Group is part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas.
 Amanda Van Nuys joined Linden Lab, San Francisco, the creator of Second Life, as director for enterprise marketing. She had been vice president for marketing at Organic, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, where her post is being filled by Randi Barshak. Ms. Van Nuys's arrival at Linden Lab comes after Mark Kingdon, who had been chief executive at Organic, joined Linden Lab as chief executive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); LIN TV CORP (72%); NIELSEN BUSINESS MEDIA (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (54%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (51%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (83%); TVL (NYSE) (72%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



430 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: As the Handoff Begins, A Visit Both Historic And Perhaps Awkward

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For nearly two years on the campaign trail, Senator Barack Obama rarely missed a chance to take a swipe at President Bush. The name George W. Bush invariably followed the phrase ''failed policies'' in Mr. Obama's speeches. ''When George Bush steps down,'' Mr. Obama once declared, ''the world is going to breathe a sigh of relief.''
 On Monday, Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, may find himself conveniently forgetting those words -- or at least delicately stepping around the fact that he had said them. As the president-elect, he will be welcomed at the White House as an honored guest of its current occupant, Mr. Bush, for a meeting that could be as awkward as it is historic.
 In a time-honored tradition of American democracy, Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, will receive a tour of their new home from Mr. Bush and the first lady, Laura Bush. Then the men will split off to begin the formal transfer of power, all the more urgent this year because of the financial crisis. Mr. Obama has said he expects a ''substantive conversation between myself and the president.'' 
 But there will also be a subtext to the session: the personal chemistry between two leaders whose worldviews are miles apart. The ritual visit is occurring uncommonly early this year, less than a week after Mr. Obama handily defeated Senator John McCain of Arizona, who was the Republican nominee and Mr. Bush's preferred candidate. Emotions may still be raw.
 ''I'm not going to anticipate problems,'' Mr. Obama said Friday at his first news conference as president-elect. ''I'm going to go in there with a spirit of bipartisanship.''
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama have had little chance to forge the kind of personal relationship that might prompt a smooth handoff. In his book, ''The Audacity of Hope,'' Mr. Obama wrote less than admiringly of his first face-to-face encounter with the president, at a White House breakfast for new senators after the 2004 election, where Mr. Bush outlined his second-term agenda.
 ''The president's eyes became fixed; his voice took on the agitated, rapid tone of someone neither accustomed to nor welcoming interruption; his easy affability was replaced by an almost messianic certainty,'' Mr. Obama wrote. ''As I watched my mostly Republican Senate colleagues hang on his every word, I was reminded of the dangerous isolation that power can bring.''
 Mr. Bush, meanwhile, was privately critical of Mr. Obama during the 2008 Democratic primary race, telling friends that he thought Mr. Obama's chief rival for the party's nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, was ''more experienced and more ready to be president,'' said one friend of Mr. Bush's who had such a conversation. But Mr. Obama ran a good campaign -- Mr. Bush is someone who appreciates that -- and the election last week might have eased his doubts. 
 ''President Bush is a realist,'' said this friend, who spoke anonymously to disclose his private conversation with the president. ''He has a way of coming to grips with things and moving on. The people have spoken.''
 For Mr. Bush, the meeting has a distinct upside: the chance to take the edge off his unpopularity. Democrats are already praising him as gracious for his post-election speech in the Rose Garden, where he said it would be a ''stirring sight'' to see the Obama family move into the White House. The meeting on Monday will give Mr. Bush an opportunity to produce lasting images of that graciousness.
 ''The important thing he gets out of it,'' the historian Doris Kearns Goodwin said, ''is a public perception of him as somebody who is leaving in classy fashion, by opening his house and his information and his government. He wants to leave on a note that says he did everything possible to help this next president run the country.''
 But such meetings can be fraught with political and personal danger. On Inauguration Day in 2001, President Bill Clinton invited Mr. Bush for coffee before the ceremony but kept his ever-punctual successor waiting for 10 minutes, recalled Mr. Bush's first press secretary, Ari Fleischer. Even more uncomfortable was the presence of Vice President Al Gore, who lost the presidential election to Mr. Bush after a bitterly contested Florida recount.
 ''Clinton was his normal gregarious self, but Vice President Gore was not a happy camper,'' Mr. Fleischer said. ''I think it was a very sour moment for him, and you could kind of feel it in the room.''
 In 1980, after President Jimmy Carter lost his re-election bid to Ronald Reagan, the two met at the White House. Mr. Carter came away feeling that Mr. Reagan had not been paying attention.
 ''President Carter was kind of taken aback by the meeting with Reagan,'' said Jody Powell, Mr. Carter's former press secretary. ''There was a point where he sort of wandered off and asked questions that seemed to be only tangentially related to what they were talking about.'' 
 And though the Carter White House had offered to share information about efforts to end the Iranian hostage crisis, Mr. Powell said, ''My impression was that they wanted us to handle it without them being involved enough to have to take responsibility for whatever happened.''
 So, too, may it be with Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama over the economy. Mr. Bush has invited world leaders to Washington on Friday and Saturday for an international conference on the economy. Mr. Obama and his team have declined to attend. Mr. Obama supports a new economic stimulus package; the Bush White House is cool to that idea. 
 The White House says Mr. Obama has been there seven times during Mr. Bush's tenure, most recently in September for a much-publicized meeting on the $700 billion financial rescue package. That session blew up when House Republicans, backed by Mr. McCain, balked at the plan. Curiously enough, Mr. Obama and Mr. Bush were on the same side.
 Perhaps Mr. Obama will remind Mr. Bush of that when he sees him on Monday. Or perhaps he will remind Mr. Bush of another encounter, at a White House reception in January 2005 when, according to Mr. Obama's book, the affable president offered a dollop of hand sanitizer -- ''Not wanting to seem unhygienic,'' Mr. Obama wrote, ''I took a squirt'' -- and then pulled him aside for some unsolicited political advice.
 ''You've got a bright future, very bright,'' Mr. Bush began, by Mr. Obama's account. The president went on to warn the new senator that his celebrity status could hurt him: ''Everybody'll be waiting for you to slip, know what I mean? So watch yourself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama, left, greeting President Bush at the White House in February 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Mr. Bush, the president-elect, visiting with President Bill Clinton at the White House in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ronald and Nancy Reagan, right, and President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, in 1980. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANA WALKER/TIME LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



431 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Franklin Delano Obama?

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
Suddenly, everything old is New Deal again. Reagan is out; F.D.R. is in. Still, how much guidance does the Roosevelt era really offer for today's world? 
 The answer is, a lot. But Barack Obama should learn from F.D.R.'s failures as well as from his achievements: the truth is that the New Deal wasn't as successful in the short run as it was in the long run. And the reason for F.D.R.'s limited short-run success, which almost undid his whole program, was the fact that his economic policies were too cautious.
 About the New Deal's long-run achievements: the institutions F.D.R. built have proved both durable and essential. Indeed, those institutions remain the bedrock of our nation's economic stability. Imagine how much worse the financial crisis would be if the New Deal hadn't insured most bank deposits. Imagine how insecure older Americans would feel right now if Republicans had managed to dismantle Social Security. 
 Can Mr. Obama achieve something comparable? Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's new chief of staff, has declared that ''you don't ever want a crisis to go to waste.'' Progressives hope that the Obama administration, like the New Deal, will respond to the current economic and financial crisis by creating institutions, especially a universal health care system, that will change the shape of American society for generations to come.
 But the new administration should try not to emulate a less successful aspect of the New Deal: its inadequate response to the Great Depression itself.
 Now, there's a whole intellectual industry, mainly operating out of right-wing think tanks, devoted to propagating the idea that F.D.R. actually made the Depression worse. So it's important to know that most of what you hear along those lines is based on deliberate misrepresentation of the facts. The New Deal brought real relief to most Americans.
 That said, F.D.R. did not, in fact, manage to engineer a full economic recovery during his first two terms. This failure is often cited as evidence against Keynesian economics, which says that increased public spending can get a stalled economy moving. But the definitive study of fiscal policy in the '30s, by the M.I.T. economist E. Cary Brown, reached a very different conclusion: fiscal stimulus was unsuccessful ''not because it does not work, but because it was not tried.'' 
 This may seem hard to believe. The New Deal famously placed millions of Americans on the public payroll via the Works Progress Administration and the Civilian Conservation Corps. To this day we drive on W.P.A.-built roads and send our children to W.P.A.-built schools. Didn't all these public works amount to a major fiscal stimulus? 
 Well, it wasn't as major as you might think. The effects of federal public works spending were largely offset by other factors, notably a large tax increase, enacted by Herbert Hoover, whose full effects weren't felt until his successor took office. Also, expansionary policy at the federal level was undercut by spending cuts and tax increases at the state and local level. 
 And F.D.R. wasn't just reluctant to pursue an all-out fiscal expansion -- he was eager to return to conservative budget principles. That eagerness almost destroyed his legacy. After winning a smashing election victory in 1936, the Roosevelt administration cut spending and raised taxes, precipitating an economic relapse that drove the unemployment rate back into double digits and led to a major defeat in the 1938 midterm elections.
 What saved the economy, and the New Deal, was the enormous public works project known as World War II, which finally provided a fiscal stimulus adequate to the economy's needs.
 This history offers important lessons for the incoming administration. 
 The political lesson is that economic missteps can quickly undermine an electoral mandate. Democrats won big last week -- but they won even bigger in 1936, only to see their gains evaporate after the recession of 1937-38. Americans don't expect instant economic results from the incoming administration, but they do expect results, and Democrats' euphoria will be short-lived if they don't deliver an economic recovery.
 The economic lesson is the importance of doing enough. F.D.R. thought he was being prudent by reining in his spending plans; in reality, he was taking big risks with the economy and with his legacy. My advice to the Obama people is to figure out how much help they think the economy needs, then add 50 percent. It's much better, in a depressed economy, to err on the side of too much stimulus than on the side of too little.
 In short, Mr. Obama's chances of leading a new New Deal depend largely on whether his short-run economic plans are sufficiently bold. Progressives can only hope that he has the necessary audacity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); HEALTH CARE (65%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



432 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: What Direction Should Obama Seek?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Both ''The Obama Agenda,'' by Paul Krugman, and ''Change I Can Believe In,'' by David Brooks (columns, Nov. 7), support Barack Obama, but they epitomize the dilemma he faces, a choice that will determine the future of the country -- the vision, progressiveness and courage proposed by Mr. Krugman versus Mr. Brooks's ''dream'' of the tried-and-untrue and timidity.
 Because I was brought up during the Depression and believe that we are heading there unless the advice of the very experts who brought us to where we are now is rejected, my clear preference is for Mr. Krugman's vision and courage. 
 Barack Obama is the first president I have believed in since Franklin D. Roosevelt. I hope he holds on to his vision and courage.
 Arthur Laurents New York, Nov. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I agree with Paul Krugman's suggestion that Barack Obama ignore the voices urging him to think small.
 History shows that presidents who take strong action at times of crisis are deemed successful and set the national agenda for many years to come -- Lincoln, F.D.R., Reagan. By way of contrast, presidents who temporize and act cautiously are looked upon as failures: Buchanan, Hoover, Carter.
 This is a time to dare for great things, to say not, ''We cannot do this,'' but, ''We can and will do more than anyone dared think possible.''
 Joshua P. Hill New London, Conn., Nov. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 There must be something wrong with me, since I didn't view the election through ''teary-eyed'' lenses. Nor do I agree with Paul Krugman that it was ''a clear referendum on political philosophies.'' 
 I see it at a victory based on one party outspending the other by two to one, thereby coming close to buying the election, as well as a meltdown of the economy where the party in power foots the blame. 
 The election was easy. The tough part is dealing with a hostile world that may give the president-elect a very short honeymoon. To handle that, he will need more than oratory, race or money to keep America safe.
 Sy Dill Providence, R.I., Nov. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman's analysis of the present financial crisis and the path out of it is spot-on. 
 Help is not to be found in ''the Bush administration's habit of turning anything and everything into an argument for its preferred policies,'' and the conservative ideology that ''greed is always good'' is not sound economics. 
 To get out of this mess, we will have to replace wishful thinking with clear-eyed pragmatism. That is the change we need, and the change we voted for.
 Donald de Fano Somerset, Mass., Nov. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I'm a Democrat from way out in Iowa who very much enjoys reading David Brooks's columns. They're usually a refreshing dose of thoughtful conservatism rather than the screeching tirades that characterize so many extremists on both sides. 
 I agree with -- yet am amused by -- the current conservatives' calls for the Obama administration to show bipartisanship and include the G.O.P. in meaningful ways. Mr. Brooks's column is a good example. I agree with his points, but I wonder where all this kumbaya was in 2000 and 2004 when George W. Bush won. 
 I don't recall conservatives hoping out loud that Mr. Bush would appoint real Democrats to key positions and invite Democratic leaders to the White House, or lamenting the might-makes-right approach of the Bush administration. 
 Today's calls for bipartisanship and healing from conservative voices would have far more credibility if they had been just as loud when the G.O.P. was in the majority.
 Bill Zahren West Des Moines, Nov. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Why is it that Republicans insist that Democrats govern inclusively and moderately in a bipartisan manner but do not require the same for themselves? In fact, their record shows them to be exclusionary and ideologically driven, even without a mandate, with a tone-deaf ear to the rest of the electorate. 
 Susan Ricci New York, Nov. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks says that ''the members of my dream Obama administration understand that they cannot impose an ideological program the country does not accept.'' 
 Funny, I had the same dream, in 2000 and 2004. Alas, it was just that, only a dream. 
 This time, however, I ''actually believe,'' to use Mr. Brooks' words, ''in that stuff Obama says about postpartisan politics.'' 
 This time, I expect a recurring dream finally to become reality.
 Courtney Slatten Katzenstein Dallas, Nov. 7, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PIA FISCHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); REFERENDUMS (63%); CONSERVATISM (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); PAUL KRUGMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (70%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (68%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



433 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: 'Bullheaded' and a Rhodes Scholar, and Now Headed to Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
Fresh from defeating Representative Christopher Shays, the 10-term Republican from Connecticut's Fourth District, Jim Himes is cautioning against expecting any miracles during his freshman term in office.
 ''I'm not under any misapprehension that Jim Himes is going to unilaterally reform the health care system,'' he said on Friday, in between thanking supporters and fielding calls from reporters in Peru, where he was born.
 Then again, it was not out of an abundance of caution that Mr. Himes, 42, a Goldman Sachs investment banker-turned-financier of low-income housing, decided to challenge Mr. Shays early last year. The district had been carried by the Democratic presidential candidates Al Gore in 2000 and John Kerry in 2004, but Mr. Shays had fended off tough challenges in his last two races. And no one in February 2007 was counting on an Obama landslide.
 ''The consensus was that it would be hard, but not impossible,'' said the square-jawed Mr. Himes. ''I thought, O.K. -- hard but not impossible I'll do.'' 
 His friends say that Mr. Himes, a Rhodes scholar who was captain of the lightweight crew team at Harvard, has plenty of experience pulling off daunting feats. There was the time when, in the Northeast blackout of 2003, he could not reach his wife and daughters. He put on a pair of sneakers and walked home -- from Union Square in Manhattan to Cos Cob, Conn., a 31-mile trek that took nine hours.
 From a safe remove, Mr. Himes tosses this off to his ''bullheaded stubbornness, mixed with a little bit of unhinged.'' But Don Carlson, who met him at Harvard and later followed him to Goldman Sachs, said he had seen what he called Mr. Himes's ''rower's look'' several times.
 On 9/11, he said, Goldman Sachs workers were told not to leave the building, but Mr. Himes, who had volunteered in the rescue squad as a teenager in Lawrenceville, N.J., headed out to help. ''When he sets his eyes to something and is really determined, there's no stopping the guy,'' Mr. Carlson said.
 In the same way, in his race against Mr. Shays -- one that Mr. Himes turned from a long shot into a tossup through his early fund-raising, assiduous organizing and focused messaging -- Mr. Himes ''just decided he was 5 points behind'' in the final weeks, even when his aides believed they were winning, Mr. Carlson said. ''He'd never give up hope, but he'd never stop pushing as hard as he could.''
 Mr. Himes won by nearly 5 percentage points, rolling up big margins in cities like Bridgeport and even carrying Shelton, where voters split their tickets to vote for John McCain. Mr. Shays warned voters that Mr. Himes would raise their taxes, but Mr. Shays's biggest wound was self-inflicted, when he echoed Mr. McCain's defense of the economy as ''fundamentally sound.''
 Mr. Himes was born in Lima, Peru, where his father worked for the Ford Foundation, and spent his early childhood there and in Bogota, Colombia. When his parents divorced, he and his two sisters moved to New Jersey with their mother, who worked as an administrator for nonprofit groups like the Aspen Institute and for the State Board of Higher Education.
 Being engaged in the world was not a matter of choice for Mr. Himes, said David Earling, a childhood friend: ''That dinner table was where, as a 10-year-old, you'd better have a view of what's going on and what the headlines were.''
 Mr. Carlson, who wrote Mr. Himes's recommendation for the Rhodes Scholarship, called him ''a remarkably reflective guy.'' When Mr. Himes proposed writing a college paper on homelessness, Mr. Carlson invited him to spend a night at a shelter where he worked. ''But he went out and spent the night on the street with the homeless, and wrote a beautiful and poetic paper that shared their perspectives.''
 After his Rhodes scholar experience at Oxford, where he earned a degree in Latin American studies, Mr. Himes said he pursued jobs at the State Department and on Capitol Hill before Goldman lured him to join its new Latin America group. He soon wound up crunching numbers and traveling the world selling investors on the landmark privatization of Telmex, the Mexican telephone company.
 Goldman disbanded the group after the 1994 Mexican peso crisis. Mr. Himes later worked in mergers and acquisitions and in a technology group. But when the dot-com boom went bust, Mr. Himes, already rattled by 9/11, did not like his options at the firm. ''Between that, and a newborn and 3-year-old I never saw,'' he said, ''I'd had enough.''
 In Mexico, he had become interested in ways of fighting poverty with business-oriented solutions. With that in mind, he found his way to the Enterprise Foundation, a nonprofit financer of low-income housing, which commissioned him to study personal finances and predatory financial services in the Bronx.
 ''It was a real eye-opener to spend time with people you don't often meet at 85 Broad Street,'' he said, referring to Goldman's headquarters.
 Rafael Cestero, who hired him at the Enterprise Foundation, said it was not the first inquiry he had received from a restless Wall Streeter. ''But most of the time, they never call you back,'' he said. ''With Jim it was different.''
 When Mr. Cestero joined the Bloomberg administration as a senior housing official in 2004, he named Mr. Himes to replace him. ''He picked up the business of Enterprise that takes most people years to learn in months,'' Mr. Cestero said. ''Frankly he understood it better than some of us who'd been there a long time. He's an incredibly quick learner.''
 At the foundation, Mr. Himes helped conceive a $230 million acquisition fund to give developers of lower-income housing an edge in competing with market-rate developers to buy scarce city land. Mr. Himes had the insight, Mr. Cestero said, to figure out that banks would embrace it if their risk was shared with philanthropic foundations and the city. The fund is designed to finance purchases of enough land for 30,000 of the 165,000 units of housing that Mr. Bloomberg has promised. Mr. Cestero said, ''Jim was the leader that drove this.''
 At home in Greenwich, Mr. Himes said he got involved in Democratic politics after President Bush's election because he saw ''some pretty awful policies'' on the horizon. After helping a friend's campaign in town, he won a seat on the board of the housing authority, which he helped restructure, firing consultants and hiring a new director.
 It even completed four units, an accomplishment in a town where the prevailing attitude is not Nimby, Mr. Himes said; it is ''Banana -- build absolutely nothing anywhere near anything.''
 Mr. Himes was a board member of the Greenwich Alliance for Education, which supports public education, and his daughters, now 9 and 6, attend the public schools.
 Kevin Cameron, who roomed with Mr. Himes at Harvard and who lives in Greenwich, said Mr. Himes would have credibility on environmental issues: He drives a Prius, commuted by bike and train and keeps his house so cold in the winter that guests know to wear sweaters. 
 In the campaign, Mr. Himes's resume proved fortunate; the financial crisis played to his background as an investment banker who had spent years in housing finance. His Wall Street experience also made him a safe choice for the moneyed voters of Fairfield County, said Art House, a Democratic leader. ''They weren't afraid of him the way they would be of a classic liberal,'' Mr. House said.
 Mr. Carlson warned that Mr. Himes could turn out to surprise people, not only in his district but in Washington. There was that time, he said, a winter or two ago, when Mr. Himes fell through thin ice while skating. But he had two screwdrivers in his pocket to pull himself up -- just in case.
 ''In the classic Jim way, he was completely prepared,'' Mr. Carlson said. ''He's confident, resourceful, but pushing the edge. He loves to push the edge.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Himes, who defeated Representative Christopher Shays: ''The consensus was that it would be hard, but not impossible.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: JIM HIMES (92%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



434 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Raises Ax Over Medicaid And School Fund

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R. 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson said in an interview on Sunday that he would almost certainly seek billions of dollars in cuts to Medicaid, as well as midyear reductions in school aid, to address New York's worsening fiscal condition. 
 He also said he expected to urge labor unions to reopen the contracts they have struck on behalf of public employees as a way to avoid or decrease layoffs. 
 Such a step is reminiscent of measures taken by New York City in the financial crisis of the 1970s or moves made more recently by the Big Three domestic automakers to reduce their labor costs after years of granting steady raises and comprehensive health and pension benefits.
 Those same types of wage and benefit concessions have long weighed on New York, though the catalyst for the state's current predicament has been the collapse in tax revenue from Wall Street. 
 The governor, who spent more than two decades as a state senator representing Harlem, said he would be forced to cut even programs he sponsored as a legislator, and he expected to preside over a turbulent period for the state government. 
 ''There'll be protests, and because of the drastic nature of the cuts, those who protest will have very valid points, for which I don't have any answer, other than 'What's your idea?' '' Mr. Paterson said. ''We're not going to close a $12.5 billion deficit with 5 percent cuts to health and education.''
 Asked if the cuts for education and health care programs would be in the billions of dollars next year, he said, ''Unquestionably.''
 His comments, made during an interview between sessions at a conference held here by Latino lawmakers from New York State, put to rest any doubts about the depth of the state's fiscal crisis. 
 Some of the cuts will be sought when lawmakers return to Albany on Nov. 18 for a special session to help close a $1.5 billion budget gap for the current fiscal year, which ends in March, and to get an early start on next year's budget. Any cuts would need support from the Legislature. And the governor will have to propose far steeper cuts when he introduces a budget next month for the fiscal year that ends in March 2010 -- that budget will need to close a $12.5 billion deficit. 
 Cutting school aid in the middle of the school year, if it comes to pass, will represent an about-face from the sharp increases undertaken by former Gov. Eliot Spitzer to end years of court challenges by advocacy groups that contended that New York City schools were being shortchanged by Albany. The state has not made midyear school aid cuts since the early 1990s, and schools in New York City and elsewhere are already feeling the pinch as municipalities cut their own budgets.
 Since taking over in March, after Mr. Spitzer's resignation, Mr. Paterson has been aggressive in sounding the alarm about the state's fiscal woes, at times even suggesting that his predecessor's staff should have moved more quickly to prepare for the recession. 
 But the governor, who has sometimes made his liberal base uneasy with his newfound mantra of cost-cutting, has by far his toughest fights ahead of him. Reopening labor contracts would prove difficult, because state law bars the government from unilaterally altering the terms of such agreements, though the unions might face the threat of layoffs if they refused. 
 ''They realistically see that it's one of the options that I would have to examine, and I realistically understand that that really is a place that they don't want to go,'' Mr. Paterson said. 
 ''There is only a harm if the union sees it as a harm,'' the governor added. ''As long as the union sees that as a viable option in lieu of layoffs, then I think you have a partnership.''
 Mr. Paterson said he had not broached the issue with labor leaders in so many words, though he believed they knew it was a subject on the horizon. 
 ''No one actually has said it, but we say things to each other like, what we said back in September was, 'If this gets any worse, we know what we're going to have to do,' '' he said. 
 How the Legislature will respond remains to be seen; Mr. Paterson must negotiate with the Senate amid significant leadership turmoil. 
 Dean G. Skelos, the Senate majority leader and a Long Island Republican, has vowed to block education cuts in the Nov. 18 special session -- ''New York State must not balance its budget by offloading its costs to schools,'' he said recently, and he has been hailed by teachers' unions for ruling out such cuts. 
 But Democrats won 32 of 62 seats in the Senate in Tuesday's election, winning a majority for the first time in more than four decades. Three Democrats, however, have yet to commit to supporting the Senate minority leader, Malcolm Smith, a Queens Democrat, as majority leader when the new Legislature is seated in January. 
 That leaves the Senate's leadership uncertain at an inopportune moment. Mr. Smith said little to reporters this weekend. Both he and Mr. Skelos were here to woo two key Latino lawmakers who had not yet decided whom to support as leader. 
 Dan Weiller, a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Legislature's top Democrat, said, ''The speaker has said repeatedly that everything is on the table and that we're prepared to work with the governor and the Senate to make tough choices.''
 Cuts in school aid and Medicaid are sure to be contentious. Unions representing teachers and hospital workers are among the most powerful special interests in Albany and have waged high-profile publicity campaigns in the past to ward off such cuts. 
 ''Obviously, we will argue strongly against it,'' said Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers. 
 ''It's not like putting off a construction project or an investment; you're talking here about a year in a child's life,'' he said. ''It's hard to make that up.''
 Mr. Iannuzzi's union also encompasses the United University Professions, a local that represents tens of thousands of faculty members at state universities. While he acknowledged that layoffs were ''a threat the governor has the ability to make,'' he was cool to the idea of reopening labor contracts.
 ''If the only purpose in reopening it is to take something out, I don't see a lot of our locals entering into that conversation,'' he said. ''If there is some incentive that appeals to them, then we'll enter into that conversation.''
 Mr. Paterson also said a number of steps were being considered, including long-term leases of state assets; he has already set up a commission to study such proposals. 
 ''I don't want to do things that affect the ability of future legislators and governors to govern,'' Mr. Paterson said, ''but I do want to find ways to leverage some of the assets we have.''
 In more flush times, raising money through gimmicks or ''one-shot'' infusions of capital raised by selling assets or privatizing state resources was frowned on by budget watchdogs. But, the governor said, ''we're in a one-shot period'' because of ''the sheer volume of the deficit.''
 Mr. Paterson said he was girding for the backlash. 
 ''I don't need a protest for it to bother me; I used to fight for some of these causes,'' he said, adding that the situation would only worsen by waiting. 
 ''I'll feel pain in my stomach,'' he said, ''but my conscience will be clear.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of a teacher's union, said he would fight school cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



435 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2451 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: November 10, 2008

 BODY:
International
 LEADERS MEET IN ADVANCE
 Of Economic Conference 
 The Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers met in Sao Paolo, Brazil, to lay the groundwork for a critical economic summit meeting in Washington next weekend. The G-20 said it would work together to support economic growth and promote financial stability. But Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, said the economic crisis was the fault of developed nations like the United States, and Brazilian officials and those of other developing nations said they should play a greater role in shaping, as Mr. da Silva put it, a ''new global financial architecture.'' PAGE A6
 PUSHING FOR A TWO-STATE SOLUTION
 Representatives of the quartet of Middle East peace mediators -- the United States, the United Nations, the European Union and Russia -- reaffirmed their support for the continuing efforts for a two-state solution between Israelis and Palestinians. But there was little obvious evidence that progress toward that end had been made. PAGE A8 
 FISCAL WOES PUT SKYSCRAPER ON ICE
 Gazprom, the Russian oil and gas behemoth, had plans for a skyscraper that would have towered over the skyline of St. Petersburg. But the spectacular decline in energy prices has hit Gazprom hard, and the city of St. Petersburg, which was co-financing the tower, is planning to cut financing for it. Now the building's construction has been delayed and -- preservationists, architects and many residents fervently hope -- may never be carried out. PAGE A10
 BARCELONA EMBRACES BIKING
 Cities all over Europe have been embracing environmentally friendly communal bike programs in which commuters pay a small fee at a bicycle station to use any of a fleet of bicycles. They have been very successful, and in Barcelona, the unexpected popularity means that some people looking to ride to work in the morning arrive at the bicycle stations in the morning to find no bikes available and long waits. PAGE A10
 OSSETIANS TIGHTEN HOLD ON VILLAGE
 South Ossetian forces began reinforcing a border in the village of Perevi, a small, ethnically Georgian community that has been absorbed into South Ossetian territory despite a Russian pledge to withdraw to the enclave's old boundaries. Georgian authorities said that ethnic violence could follow if Ossetian authorities were allowed to take charge. PAGE a10
 CALL FOR END TO ZIMBABWE IMPASSE
 Southern African leaders called for political rivals in Zimbabwe to share control of the crucial ministry that oversees the police and to form a joint government immediately, but the opposition flatly rejected the proposal as unworkable and unfair. A15
 NATIONAL
 AN INSPIRATION FOR PARENTS, 
 And Names for Children
 Following in the tradition of Franklin in the 1930s, Dwight in the 1950s and Lyndon (poor guys) in the 1960s, in the past week Barack, Obama, Michelle, Malia and Sasha have become inspirations for first and middle names across the United States. But the Obama baby boom has been even more pronounced in Kenya, particularly in Kisumu, an area in the western part of the country where relatives of Mr. Obama live. PAGE A15
 TRANSPLANT CREATES BLOOD BROTHERS
 The bone marrow transplant that James Chippendale of Dallas received from Klaus Kaiser of Gutter, Germany, was just the beginning of their relationship. Mr. Chippendale had a friend translate his words into German and sent a letter to the man who had saved his life. But Mr. Chippendale knew that a single letter could not begin to express his gratitude. PAGE A18
 REPUBLICANS ARE PARTLY TO THANK
 Democrats tempted to read too much into the returns in last Tuesday's presidential election should keep in mind that the results turned partly on what they did right, but also on what Republicans did wrong. And to paraphrase a once-prominent Republican, they won't have President Bush to kick around anymore. The Caucus, John Harwood. PAGE A17
 INSPECTOR FACES DRUG CHARGES
 A veteran customs inspector recently arrested in Texas on drug charges helped traffickers smuggle about 3,000 pounds of cocaine into the country over five years, according to a court document. A Drug Enforcement Administration agent said the inspector allowed smugglers to drive cars loaded with cocaine through his entry lane at the Eagle Pass border crossing, about 140 miles southwest of San Antonio, without inspection. PAGE A18
 OBITUARIES
 DR. RONALD M. DAVIS, 52
 A former president of the American Medical Association, he campaigned against tobacco, alcohol, obesity, illicit drugs and unhealthy lifestyles in a career as a public health official. PAGE A21
 THOMAS DUNN, 82
 A prominent conductor and a specialist in Baroque music, he championed authentic performance practices, and his work helped animate the early music revival of the mid-20th century and afterward. PAGE A21
 B.R. CHOPRA, 94
 A leading Indian filmmaker, he found rare success creating both hit Bollywood musicals and dramatic, socially conscious films. PAGE A21
 BUSINESS
 BUCKING THE MARKET TREND
 By Making Spectacular Gains
 While most hedge funds are sinking into the red and unsettling the markets, a handful of them are posting spectacular gains. Winners include trend-followers like Bernard V. Drury, whose fund, Drury Capital, is up 60 percent since Jan. 1; market-spanning macro funds, which dart in and out of an array of markets and bet on everything from Apple Inc. to zinc; and niche players that are buying insurance policies or making loans to small companies. PAGE B1
 THE START-UP WHITE HOUSE
 By bolting together social networking applications under the banner of a movement, Barack Obama created an unforeseen force to raise money, organize locally, fight smear campaigns and get out the vote. ''And there's every reason to believe that he will use the network not just to campaign, but to govern,'' David Carr writes in The Media Equation. PAGE B1
 OUR STUFF'S CHEAPER THAN THEIRS
 Marketers are scrambling to remake their advertising so products seem affordable and sensible rather than indulgent and fabulous. For many big marketers, a major shift in consumer psychology spells an end to the aspirational advertising that has dominated their campaigns for the last decade. ''At times like this, you don't want to be as conspicuous,'' one marketing professor said. ''It's really rude.'' PAGE B1
 MOVING BEYOND PET-PRATFALL VIDEOS
 YouTube is to announce an agreement on Monday to serve up some full-length television shows and films from MGM. The partnership will kick off with episodes of the studio's decade-old ''American Gladiators'' and action films like ''Bulletproof Monk.'' The MGM relationship will be counted among deals YouTube has made with the independent studio Lionsgate and with CBS. The ventures are all part of an effort to emulate the appeal of the YouTube rival, Hulu. PAGE B3
 FASTPEDIA'S ELECTION CALL
 Wikipedia takes its prefix from the Hawaiian word ''wiki-wiki,'' meaning fast. On election night, it lived up to its name. At 11:03 p.m., it reported in its election entry that Senator Barack Obama had been selected the winner of ''the 56th consecutive quadrennial United States presidential election.'' At the same time, the article about Barack Obama proclaimed him the president-elect. PAGE B3
 THAT SOUNDS VAGUELY FAMILIAR
 Why a commercial for MSNBC exhorts viewers with an Obama-sounding phrase, and why some video game players worry about the president-elect. Media Talk. PAGE B6
 Threats to the Grid B2
 NRG Leaves Door Open B5
 NEW YORK
 MARKET TROUBLES ECHO
 In Building's Empty Floors
 The elevators work fine, the views are great, the offices have been refurbished in a $250 million makeover. So why are tenants who rushed to rent space a year ago in the 41-story office tower overlooking Bryant Park rushing to break their leases now? The answer says much about the increasingly precarious state of Midtown Manhattan's real estate market; several financial firms that signed leases in 2006 and 2007 say they no longer can afford the rents or the cost of outfitting new spaces. Others are laying off workers or reorganizing their offices and no longer need as much room. PAGE A22
 AND A HOCKEY GAME BROKE OUT
 The local Aces of the Eastern Professional Hockey League defended their frozen turf on Flatbush Avenue Saturday night against the invading Jersey Rockhoppers. Four minutes into the contest came the first fight, met by wild cheering and foot stomping by the capacity crowd of 2,200. Wearing a brown suit and a devilish grin, Alan Friedman, the president and chief executive of the Aces, turned to no one in particular and said: ''Hockey in Brooklyn -- isn't this great?'' PAGE A23 
 HELP FOR A RUN OF PROBLEMS
 First came an unexpectedly high Consolidated Edison bill, with a balance in the hundreds of dollars instead of the usual $70. Then came the whopping bill from Cablevision, and mysterious demands from phone companies. And the Con Ed balance continued to grow. Mamadou Diallo, a newcomer from Guinea in West Africa, figured ''something is wrong; someone is trying to steal my electricity.'' It was more involved than that. Neediest Cases. PAGE A23
 Metropolitan Diary A23 
 SPORTS
 TURNING A 3-POINTER
 Into a Long(er) Shot
 In some respects the change does not seem like much -- less than the length of a typical basketball shoe, an increase of about 5 percent. But the new 3-point line in men's college basketball could create confusion, because the old line at 19-9 remains in place for the women. And for every assumption about what the new line's effect will be, there is a counter-assumption. PAGE D3
 AROUND THE WORLD, TOGETHER
 The Vendee Globe, the grueling single-handed, nonstop around-the-world race, began Sunday with a record 30 competitors and a twist: for the first time the world's top solo ocean-racing sailors will be on the 26,000-nautical-mile course together. PAGE D6
 WANTING A PIECE OF THE CHAMP
 Less than an hour had passed since Joe Calzaghe dominated Roy Jones Jr. to maintain his perfect record, and a potential future light heavyweight opponent was already knocking at the door, at least figuratively. Two other men who have lost to him once are yearning to get another shot. The attention is perhaps long-sought validation for Calzaghe, 46-0. But he said before the Jones fight that it would be his last, and he did not back down much from that statement after. ''I've done everything I want to achieve,'' he said. PAGE D3
 Arts
 'HEROES' TRIES TO FOIL TWO VILLAINS: FLAGGING RATINGS AND BAD REVIEWS
 Can ''Heroes'' rescue itself? Problems that had plagued the show's second season -- confusing plotlines, scattered characters, questionable leaps in logic -- led to a shrinking audience from the critically acclaimed first season. Those issues were supposed to have been addressed. But problems persist. With ratings for the third season down 20 percent, NBC is hoping the firings of two co-executive producers, Jeph Loeb and Jesse Alexander, will make a difference. PAGE C1 
 MAD AT D.C.? PLAY THIS GAME
 It takes a lot of gumption to blow up the entire Washington area, render the wreckage in detailed, almost painterly, strokes, weave intersecting story lines, add a thick layer of high-powered weaponry and simply set the player loose. Yet that is what Bethesda Softworks accomplishes with Fallout 3, one of the most ambitious single-player role-playing games in recent years, Seth Schiesel writes. PAGE C1 
 WRITTEN MUSIC THAT JAMS
 Were it not for the music on the musicians' stands at a well-attended concert in the West Village by the Bang on a Can All-Stars, writes Vivien Schweitzer, you might have assumed it was an impromptu jam session. PAGE C3
 GONE BEFORE HE REALLY BEGAN
 The New York City Opera's next concert has the optimistic title ''Looking Forward,'' and is part of a series intended to build enthusiasm for the bold artistic vision that the company's new director, the impresario Gerard Mortier, was to have brought to his inaugural season next fall. But before he even started, Mr. Mortier and the City Opera board have parted ways. PAGE C3 
 SHORT DANCE FILMS AT NEW MUSEUM
 ''The Rain,'' a 2007 film directed and choreographed by Pontus Lidberg of Sweden that was shown at the New Museum as part of a presentation of new shorts had Alastair Macaulay thinking, ''Stop dancing, take your clothes off, and just do what you're all evidently thinking about.'' Another film elicited this thought: ''Oh, put your clothes back on and dance!'' PAGE C5 
 A PSYCHOLOGICAL THRILLER ON STAGE
 All signs suggest that Ken Russell, the British film director, and Keith Carradine, the star of the Broadway musical ''The Will Rogers Follies,'' are both deadly earnest in their effort to resuscitate a moribund stage genre, the psychological thriller, with ''Mindgame.'' The quaintly cheesy thriller by Anthony Horowitz just opened at the SoHo Playhouse. Nevertheless, Charles Isherwood writes, ''I'm still not entirely sure if the play is meant to be taken seriously.'' PAGE C1 
 Editorial
 SO WE'VE GOT A DATE?
 The good news is that both Baghdad and the Americans (at least on paper) have agreed that it is time to start planning for a withdrawal of American troops. The bad news is that the Bush administration fought the idea for so long that it hasn't done anything more than set a notional date. The other bad news is that Iraqis can't agree on much more than that they want the Americans gone. PAGE A24
 A DNA BACKLOG
 In 2004, Congress approved a measure aimed at clearing up the shameful nationwide backlog of rape kits, the physical evidence from sexual assaults, awaiting DNA analysis. But a significant backlog remains. Lawmakers need to address this ongoing insult to women. PAGE A24
 THE PROTEIN PYRAMID
 Per capita meat consumption more than doubled over the past half-century as the global economy expanded. It is expected to double again by 2050. Which raises the question, what does all that meat eat before it becomes meat? PAGE A24
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 President-elect Barack Obama will be formidable, but conservatives should welcome the challenge. PAGE A25
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Barack Obama's chances of leading a new New Deal depend largely on whether his short-run economic plans are bold enough. Progressives can only hope that he has the necessary audacity. PAGE A25
 WILL CONGRESS BE TOO FRIENDLY?
 In an Op-Ed article, Alan Ehrenhalt, the editor of Governing magazine, writes that while Barack Obama faces a more cooperative Democratic majority than did Jimmy Carter or Bill Clinton, he faces the danger that it might try for policy changes too radical for the American electorate. PAGE A25

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CHILDREN (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (64%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (60%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (91%); GAZP (RTS) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (73%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (68%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); SPAIN (79%); AFRICA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



436 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Have G.O.P. To Thank, at Least in Part

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The encomiums greeting Barack Obama's victory last week presented a reverse image of the darts for John Kerry after his 2004 defeat. But Kerry campaign veterans could not help noticing a surprise in the returns.
 In the battleground state of Ohio, where Mr. Kerry lost the presidency to George W. Bush, the 2.74 million votes he received almost precisely matched Mr. Obama's 2008 total. Mr. Obama won because John McCain received 300,000 fewer votes than Mr. Bush did. 
 That points to a cautionary reminder for Mr. Obama and his team: the election turned partly on what they did right, but also on what Republicans did wrong. And there is no assurance that Democrats will confront a similarly star-crossed opposition in elections to come. 
 ''We should be confident, but not cocky,'' said Donald Fowler of South Carolina, a former national Democratic Party chairman. ''Several things that worked against them in this campaign could change quickly.''
 Among them, Mr. Fowler said of the deeply unpopular Republican incumbent in the White House, ''Bush is going to disappear.''
 Mr. Obama, a senator from Illinois, inarguably fashioned an impressive victory for any Democrat, much less the first black nominee in American history. His 52 percent share of the popular vote exceeded that of any Democratic candidate since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 -- and topped Ronald Reagan's 1980 majority against Jimmy Carter. With breakthroughs in the South, Midwest and Mountain West, Mr. Obama captured at least nine states carried by Mr. Bush in 2004, with the outcome in Missouri still unclear.
 Yet the record-shattering turnout that some observers predicted appears not to have materialized. Curtis Gans of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate projects that, when outstanding votes are tallied, the number of Americans casting ballots will fall short of the 130-million floor predicted by the McCain and Obama campaigns.
 Mr. Gans ascribes that shortfall in part to diminished Republican fervor -- a ''demobilization'' that created political openings for Mr. Obama's disciplined campaign organization. The reasons for that begin with Mr. Bush's political infirmity, but they do not end there.
 Lacking a deep wellspring of support among conservative party regulars, Mr. McCain courted them to win the Republican nomination -- in the process weakening his once-formidable standing among independents. He sought to appeal to both factions with his selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, and saw most Americans deem her unqualified for the presidency.
 The campaign's unalloyed appeals to cultural populism drove well-educated, high-income voters to the Democratic ticket. Meantime, disarray among Congressional Republicans over the financial bailout package in September compounded injuries Republicans suffered throughout Mr. Bush's second term to their reputation for pragmatism and competence.
 Democrats ''benefited greatly from tapping into voters' frustrations about a very badly damaged Republican brand,'' said Mr. McCain's political director, Mike DuHaime, a former Republican National Committee official.
 That created new campaign dynamics for the post-civil rights era in which Deep South states became the Republicans' redoubt. Instead of distancing themselves from their national ticket, as Democrats have customarily done, the North Carolina candidate for governor Bev Perdue and the Senate candidate Kay Hagan linked themselves to Mr. Obama. 
 All three won in the Tar Heel state, and Democrats gained a House seat for the second consecutive election. After controlling a majority of North Carolina House seats at the outset of Mr. Bush's term, Republicans now hold just 5 of 13.
 ''Without Bush and Cheney and Rove, the Democrats couldn't have done what they did'' in 2006 or 2008, observed David Rohde, a political scientist at Duke University. In his first television advertisement for the Dec. 2 Senate runoff in Georgia with the Republican incumbent, Saxby Chambliss, the Democratic Senate candidate, Jim Martin, promises to ''work with Barack Obama to get our economy moving again.''
 Democratic veterans warn against assuming the party can sustain such successes against a reinvigorated Republican opposition. ''The country remains very evenly divided,'' said Harold Ickes, a former deputy chief of staff in the Clinton administration. ''The lease on the office space is likely very short.''
 Indeed, Mr. Clinton's experience highlights the risks. The misadventures of his first two White House years helped pave the way for the Republican Revolution led by Newt Gingrich that ousted Democrats from control of Congress.
 After four years in the Senate, Mr. Obama may move into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue with closer ties to the Democratic Congress than Mr. Clinton brought from the Arkansas governor's mansion. If he gives higher priority than Mr. Clinton did to party-building below the presidential level, Mr. Fowler said, the political breakthroughs may continue.
 ''If we improve as much between now and 2012 as we did between 2004 and 2008,'' Mr. Fowler predicted, ''we can win South Carolina.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We should be confident, but not cocky.'' DONALD FOWLER: A former national Democratic Party chairman
''The country remains very evenly divided.'' HAROLD ICKES: Former deputy chief of staff in the Clinton White House
 Democrats ''benefited greatly from tapping into voters' frustrations about a very badly damaged Republican brand.'' MIKE DUHAIME: Senator John McCain's political director 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HISTORY (65%); BAILOUTS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



437 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Demand for a Say on a Way Out of Crisis

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil 

 BODY:
The Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers met over the weekend here with the intent of laying the groundwork for a critical meeting of world leaders in Washington next Saturday to tackle the global financial crisis.
 But the three-day gathering of the Group of 20 also revealed a deep longing among developing countries, including the host, Brazil, to gain a greater voice in helping the world navigate its way out of the crisis.
 The group said it would work together to support economic growth and promote financial stability, and praised countries that had taken ''bold and decisive'' action, like China, which said Sunday that it would invest 4 trillion yuan, about $586 billion, in an economic stimulus plan. The group declared in a statement that ''considerable'' volatility remained in global financial markets, but vowed that its members would continue to take ''all necessary actions'' to restore stability.
 Despite a spirit of cooperation at the event, an air of bitterness also pervaded. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil's president, and his finance minister, Guido Mantega, blamed the United States and other developed countries for spreading financial gloom to all corners of the globe. 
 ''No country is safe from the financial crisis,'' Mr. da Silva said in a speech opening the event on Saturday. ''They are all being infected by problems that originated in the advanced countries.''
 Mr. da Silva was no longer trying to say that Brazil, Latin America's biggest economy, was immune from the housing and banking crisis afflicting the United States, as he did in the first days of the banking crisis, when he had boasted that the financial contagion would ''not cross the ocean.''
 Instead, Mr. da Silva and Mr. Mantega sought to assert the role of the Group of 20 in discussions typically dominated by the Group of 7 organization of advanced economies -- Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. The Group of 20, formed in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, is composed of the Group of 7 and 13 developing countries.
 Those 13 include the ''BRIC'' countries, a grouping of the world's fastest-developing nations -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- which sought to assert their heftier role in the global economy. 
 The Asian crisis forced painful devaluations in Brazil and Argentina that led millions of people to fall below the poverty line. But officials from Brazil and other developing countries stressed that this crisis would be different, that this time the major developing countries would -- and should -- play a greater role in shaping, as Mr. da Silva put it, a ''new global financial architecture.''
 The finance ministers of the BRIC countries met here Friday, their first meeting ever. Their own statement stressed the ''significant resilience'' shown by the BRIC countries, the need to ''restore the real economy's access to credit'' and the importance of preventing protectionism in the face of the current financial turmoil.
 ''This is a group of countries that clearly wields some influence in the international economy,'' said Robert B. Zoellick, the World Bank's president, who applauded the BRIC statement. The prospect for them to become part of the solution -- and not the problem, as in the wake of the Asian crisis -- is ''a real opportunity,'' he said. ''I think it will happen. A lot of the discussion in question is how it will happen.''
 Mr. Zoellick also said the BRIC communique showed the need for what he has termed a flexible ''steering group'' of countries including the BRIC countries and oil giants like Mexico and Saudi Arabia to better reflect today's global economy.
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the chief of the International Monetary Fund, put it more bluntly. Next year's global economic forecast, he said, calls for all the growth in the world to come from emerging countries and some low-income countries. ''So it is just fair to look at this growth coming from emerging countries and to try to support it because it is the only growth that we will have,'' he said.
 As a consequence, ''the say of the emerging countries will be bigger than in other situations.'' 
 For Mr. da Silva, the Brazilian president, the meeting was also a chance to pick at a still healing scab. Mr. da Silva has openly expressed his bitterness over how the financial crisis has upended the region's greatest economic prosperity in three decades. The global shocks have been particularly frustrating for Brazil given how much it did to reform its financial system, diversify its trade and save wisely during the global commodities boom. Mr. da Silva has lashed out at Wall Street and its ''excessive profits,'' and noted bitterly how Brazil had followed the strict loan conditions for economic reform demanded by the multilateral lenders like the I.M.F., only to see its economy threatened by financial problems in the advanced countries that dominate the group.
 ''We all recognize that despite a lot of talk over the last 6 to 12 months about decoupling, that our countries are very interdependent, both in terms of capital markets but also in terms of the real economy,'' said David H. McCormick, the American under secretary of Treasury for international affairs. ''So when the U.S. or Europe or major emerging economies like China slow down, that has implications for all other countries.'' 
 Beyond the jockeying for position within the multilateral financial institutions, the finance ministers and central bankers noted in a statement that the slowdown in world economic growth and falling commodity prices had reduced inflationary pressures, especially for developed countries.
 Participants in the meetings underscored the enormity of the task that they will confront again in Washington. Trevor Manuel, South Africa's finance minister, said the world faced the challenge of smoothing the boom-and-bust from the business cycle. ''We have this unregulated exuberance, if you wish, led by the financial sector, that led to a huge increase in commodity prices,'' he said.
 Mr. Zoellick noted ''a stunning drop'' in world trade that could bring in 2009 the first global decline since 1982. The credit crunch is playing just as much of a role as the drop in demand for products, he said.
 The Group of 20, in its communique, called for increased regulation, common accounting standards and the need to explore ways to restore access to credit for emerging and developing countries. The group also called for the I.M.F. to enhance its early-warning capabilities, surveillance and policy advice.
 Mr. da Silva said the need for concerted effort had never been greater. ''This is not the time for strict nationalism, for individual solutions,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BRIC COUNTRIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (57%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



438 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Emptying Pandora's Box

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
These are interesting times. Jobs are disappearing and General Motors is running out of cash. At the same time, America has assuaged some of its deepest wounds with the election of Barack Obama. We have less money in our pockets but more hope in our hearts.
 Hope won't feed an empty stomach. But it's potent. In Greek myth, when Pandora opened her box, she let out all the evils except one: hope. The Greeks considered hope dangerous; its bedfellow can be delusion. Nietzsche later saw hope as the evil that prolongs human torment. 
 But in the end Pandora opened her box again and released hope because, without it, humanity was filled with despair.
 At least that's one version of the myth. What is certain is that there's a lot of hope about these days. It would be an exaggeration to say people are happier now that we have less money, but accurate to say there's a surfacing of shame about the extent of our spend-spend-spend excesses.
 The check on this shopping spree stands at $2.6 trillion in American personal debt. That's a staggering sum.
 You can't wish away debt with a magic wand. The toll for all those home-equity paid Disney vacations will be heavy. Yet I would resist the temptation to say that economic crisis defines our times. No, as Bill Clinton might have said, ''It's the culture, stupid.''
 The culture that said the most patriotic act was to shop. The culture that sent the best and the brightest to Wall Street to concoct toxic securities. The culture that said there was no need to balance individual rights and community needs. The culture that replaced thrift with thrills and hope with hype. The culture that said a country at war is not a country that needs to pull together in sacrifice.
 Goodbye to all that.
 I've had countless uplifting e-mails in recent days that, in different ways, have been about a moral reorientation, a reaching out, the rediscovery of the ways in which we can be our brothers' and our sisters' keepers. Diana Strelow, 73, of Portsmouth, Va., put it this way:
 ''My vote for Obama was and is about my hope that an intelligent, self-respecting president will lead to a renewal of civility on the part of all of us -- perhaps a renewal even of the love that Americans once had for each other.''
 Significant as economic anxieties were, she said, they paled beside this deeper yearning.
 Another message came from a U.S. official who, in January 2007, was serving in Fallujah, Iraq, alongside the 1st and 2nd Marine Expeditionary Forces.
 He forwarded a letter he had sent to Obama on Jan. 27, 2007, on the eve of the senator's announcement of his candidacy in Springfield, Ill.
 ''Those of us still serving in these dangerous Iraqi deserts need your voice and message in the Iraq debate back home,'' he wrote. ''More than that, we want a new politics that speaks again to the great traditions of not just one party but of one country, ours. You capture that theme, genuinely, like no one else.
 ''Throughout my time in this tough assignment (best and worst job I will ever have), I have looked to Washington for the kind of leadership traits that I see among our Marine captains, colonels and corporals in the mean streets of Anbar. It has been dispiriting. Another Greatest Generation -- whose apolitical patriotic steel is being forged here among tens of thousands of Americans -- deserves better.''
 The official, who asked not to be named because of the rules of his government agency, continued: ''I am leaving Iraq before long and have decided to go basically straight from Fallujah to Springfield in order to hear your formal announcement in person. I just want to be there. Anonymous. Part of the energy.'' And he concluded: ''With you in the presidential picture, I am more hopeful about endings in Iraq and beginnings at home, in our country we miss so much and remain honored to represent.''
 Yes, hundreds of thousands of Americans have been engaged in prolonged forms of service and sacrifice that have deserved better.
 Better not just of a president, George W. Bush, too insecure to inspire, but of all of us for whom easy credit became synonymous with easy amnesia. Perhaps the new frugality can also be the new humanity.
 America's moment of reckoning is global. Economic anxiety has spread far and wide, as far and as wide as the hopes vested in Obama. This moment of moral opportunity is not confined to the United States.
 Anti-Bushism, straying often into anti-Americanism, has been the defining ideological current of recent times. Its disappearance with Obama, or at least its retreat, leaves a gaping intellectual void needing to be filled.
 For inspiration on how to do that I suggest this image: hope fluttering out of Pandora's box. Crisis demands statesmanship, which cannot be composed of calculation alone, but must reach for the unquenchable in the human spirit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



439 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: China Unveils Sweeping Plan For Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
China announced a huge economic stimulus plan on Sunday aimed at bolstering its weakening economy, a sweeping move that could also help fight the effects of the global slowdown.
 At a time when major infrastructure projects are being put off around the world, China said it would spend an estimated $586 billion over the next two years -- roughly 7 percent of its gross domestic product each year -- to construct new railways, subways and airports and to rebuild communities devastated by an earthquake in the southwest in May. 
 The package, announced Sunday evening by the State Council, or cabinet, is the largest economic stimulus effort ever undertaken by the Chinese government. 
 ''Over the past two months, the global financial crisis has been intensifying daily,'' the State Council said in a statement. ''In expanding investment, we must be fast and heavy-handed.'' 
 The plan was unveiled as finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations met in Sao Paulo, Brazil, over the weekend. 
 It came less than a week before President Hu Jintao was scheduled to travel to Washington for a global economic summit meeting hosted by President Bush.
 On Saturday, Mr. Hu spoke by telephone with President-elect Barack Obama about a variety of issues, including the global financial crisis and how their countries might cooperate to help resolve economic problems.
 Asian markets welcomed news of the stimulus plan. The Japanese Nikkei index rose 5.6 percent in trading early Monday. Stocks in Hong Kong and Shanghai rallied strongly, jumping over 5 percent and lifting share prices that have been depressed for much of the year.
 Although Beijing has indicated that it will focus on keeping its own economy on track, it is difficult to insulate any economy from a global downturn. After five years of growth in excess of 10 percent, China's economy is beginning to weaken. Growth in exports and investment is slowing, consumer confidence is waning and stock and property markets are severely depressed.
 The stimulus plan, though driven by domestic concerns, represents a fresh commitment by China to keep from adding to the economic and financial woes of the United States and Europe. It is also likely to cheer foreign investors in China's economy by ensuring that the country remains a source of growth. 
 China's package is not comparable to fiscal stimulus measures that are being discussed in Washington. In China, much of the capital for infrastructure improvements comes not from central and local governments but from state banks and state-owned companies that are encouraged to expand more rapidly. 
 The plan also differs from the $700 billion financial rescue package approved by Congress, which has helped strengthen bank balance sheets but did not directly mandate new lending or support specific investment projects in the United States.
 China's overall government spending remains relatively low as a percentage of economic output compared with the United States and Europe. Yet Beijing maintains far more control over investment trends than Washington does, so it has greater flexibility to increase investment to counter a sharp downturn.
 It was unclear how Chinese officials arrived at the $586 billion figure or how much of the stimulus would be spending above what Beijing normally earmarks for infrastructure projects. Beijing said it was loosening credit and encouraging state-owned banks to lend as part of a more ''proactive fiscal policy.'' 
 The government said the stimulus would cover 10 areas, including low-income housing, electricity, water, rural infrastructure and projects aimed at environmental protection and technological innovation -- all of which could incite consumer spending and bolster the economy. The State Council said the new spending would begin immediately, with $18 billion scheduled for the last quarter of this year.
 State-driven investment projects of this kind have been a major impetus to Chinese growth throughout the 30 years of market-oriented reforms, a strong legacy of central planning.
 The biggest players in many major Chinese industries -- like steel, automobiles and energy -- are state-owned companies, and government officials locally and nationally have a hand in deciding how much bank lending is steered to those sectors.
 The investment numbers announced by China's central government often include projects financed by a variety of sources, including state-backed entities and even foreign investors.
 Beijing is struggling to cope with rapidly slowing economic growth. A downturn in investment and exports has led to factory closings in southern China, resulting in mass layoffs and even setting off sporadic protests by workers who have complained that owners disappeared without paying them their wages.
 With many economists in China now projecting that growth in the fourth quarter of this year could be as low as 5.8 percent, and amid worries that the country's economy could be walloped by the global financial crisis, Beijing is moving aggressively.
 Analysts were expecting China to announce a big stimulus package, but they said they were surprised at its size. ''That is much more aggressive than I expected,'' said Frank Gong, an economist at J. P. Morgan who is based in Hong Kong. ''That's a lot of money to spend.''
 Mr. Gong said that after the Asian financial crisis in 1997, Beijing undertook a similar, but much smaller, stimulus package, earmarking huge sums to build the country's highway and toll-road system, projects that helped keep the economy growing.
 Arthur Kroeber, managing director at Dragonomics, a Beijing-based economic research firm, said the government was concerned because people in China had suddenly pulled back on spending as a precautionary move because of worries about China's suffering with the global economy.
 ''The government is sending a signal saying: 'We're going to spend in a big way,' '' Mr. Kroeber said Sunday in a telephone interview. ''This is designed to say to the market that people should not panic.''
 Quake Hits Remote Area in China
 BEIJING (AP) -- A magnitude 6.5 earthquake struck the remote northwestern Chinese province of Qinghai on Monday, the United States Geological Survey said. There were no immediate reports of casualties. 
 The quake struck at a depth of 6.2 miles, the agency said.
 China's far west is fairly earthquake-prone. A 7.9 magnitude earthquake on May 12 devastated parts of Sichuan Province, killing about 70,000 people and leaving millions homeless.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An elevated highway site near Hangzhou, the sort of project that would be financed in a new economic stimulus package. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); EARTHQUAKES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); APPROVALS (60%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (55%) EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



440 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Emanuel Urges Aid for Auto Industry

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
In his first televised interviews since being named the chief of staff for President-elect Barack Obama, Rahm Emanuel on Sunday called for swifter action to lift the struggling auto industry and suggested Mr. Obama and President Bush might clash over a stimulus package.
 On the first weekend since Mr. Obama was elected president, several of his aides said his administration would attempt to roll back a number of Bush administration policies, including tight restrictions on stem cell research and a push for oil and gas drilling in Utah. The statements indicated that the first few months of an Obama administration could bring about stark reversals on controversial policies. 
 But Mr. Obama's aides emphasized that his first priority would be finding ways to repair the battered economy, whose latest woes include a steep drop-off in retail sales and the loss of about one million jobs. The auto industry has been particularly hard hit, with Ford and General Motors pleading for government help after car sales plummeted 18 percent this quarter. General Motors, the country's largest carmaker, reported a $4.2 billion third-quarter operating loss, and said it may be on the brink of collapse.
 Over the weekend, the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate Majority leader, Harry Reid, sent a letter to the Bush administration requesting that funds from the $700 billion bailout package -- intended for Wall Street -- be used to help carmakers as well. But the White House has signaled that it would oppose such a measure.
 When asked on ABC's ''This Week'' where Mr. Obama stood on the issue, Mr. Emanuel seemed to suggest that Mr. Obama, as a last resort, might be open to tapping the rescue fund to help carmakers, calling the auto industry an ''essential part of our industrial base.''
 He added that Mr. Obama has asked his economic team to look at ways to involve the industry in shaping an energy policy that weans the country off foreign oil, seeking ways to use the $25 billion in loans that Congress passed in September to help make auto plants more capable of producing fuel-efficient cars. But industry officials asked last week for an additional $50 billion for other costs. When pressed on whether Mr. Obama would endorse using some of the $700 billion rescue package for that purpose, Mr. Emanuel would not say whether Mr. Obama specifically opposed or supported the idea.
 ''So there's no reason to think he's opposed to what Speaker Pelosi and Senator Reid want?'' George Stephanopoulos asked.
 ''George, I just outlined the four basis points,'' Mr. Emanuel responded. ''There's authorities, both on the $25 billion that's been laid out, as well as other authorities to help the auto industry, but all part of a strategy that's going forward on a retooled auto industry that's focused on our energy independence and our economy.''
 In his first months in office, Mr. Obama could stir controversy by seeking to overturn a number of Bush initiatives that have frustrated Democrats for eight years. On ''Fox News Sunday,'' John Podesta, a co-chair of Mr. Obama's transition team, said that Mr. Obama might consider using his executive authority to change stem cell and oil-drilling policies without waiting for congressional action. 
 ''I think across the board, on stem cell research, on a number of areas, you see the Bush administration even today moving aggressively to do things that I think are probably not in the interest of the country,'' he said. ''They want to have oil and gas drilling in some of the most sensitive, fragile lands in Utah.''
 ''There's a lot that the president can do using his executive authority,'' he added, ''and I think we'll see the president do that to try to restore the -- a sense that the country is working on behalf of the common good.'' 
 On ABC, Mr. Emanuel was clear on where Mr. Obama also stood on questions about a stimulus plan for the economy, and suggested it may be an issue on which Mr. Obama and President Bush butt heads before the inauguration on Jan. 20. Mr. Obama has said he wants to see a plan put in place quickly, but the Bush administration has said it would be reluctant to support one unless Congress attached to it the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Asked if Mr. Obama would accept that compromise to move the plan forward, Mr. Emanuel was blunt.
 ''You don't link those essential needs to some other trade deal,'' he said.
 ''There's an economic recovery package in front of the Congress,'' he added. ''Washington should get it done.''
 On ABC and CBS's ''Face the Nation,'' Mr. Emanuel would not say whether Mr. Obama would consider postponing a tax increase on upper-income Americans.
 Mr. Emanuel also avoided drawing the president-elect into some smaller political skirmishes. Mr. Stephanopoulos asked whether Mr. Obama thought it was appropriate to deny Senator Joe Lieberman of Connecticut the chairmanship of the Homeland Security Committee as punishment for his ardent campaigning on behalf of Sen. John McCain. ''What happens on the House and Senate, on chairmanship, is their business,'' replied Mr. Emanuel, a House member from Illinois and a former Clinton aide. 
 Mr. Emanuel was also asked about a Chicago television report that Mr. Obama had chosen Valerie Jarrett, a close friend and the co-chair of his transition team, to replace him in the senate. Mr. Emanuel said he had not seen the report, but added ''I don't think there's been any decision or any discussion'' on the issue. 
 Ms. Jarrett, who also appeared on ''Meet the Press,'' did not discuss whether she had been tapped to succeed Mr. Obama.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); RETAIL SALES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (56%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (56%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RAHM EMANUEL (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); HARRY REID (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008



441 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Obama Reviewing Bush's Use of Executive Powers

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jackie Calmes and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama is poised to move swiftly to reverse actions that President Bush took using executive authority, and his transition team is reviewing limits on stem cell research and the expansion of oil and gas drilling, among other issues, members of the team said Sunday.
 As Mr. Obama prepared to make his first post-election visit to the White House on Monday, his advisers were compiling a list of policies that could be reversed by the executive powers of the new president. The assessment is under way, aides said, but a full list of policies to be overturned will not be announced by Mr. Obama until he confers with new members of his cabinet.
''There's a lot that the president can do using his executive authority without waiting for Congressional action, and I think we'll see the president do that,'' John D. Podesta, a top transition leader, said Sunday. ''He feels like he has a real mandate for change. We need to get off the course that the Bush administration has set.''
 Throughout his presidency, Mr. Bush has made liberal use of his executive authority, using it to put his stamp on a range of hot-button policy issues. 
 In January 2001, on his first full day in office, Mr. Bush reinstated the so-called global gag rule, initiated during the Reagan administration and overturned by President Bill Clinton, which prohibited taxpayer dollars from being given to international family planning groups that perform abortions and provide abortion counseling. After Mr. Obama's victory last week, the Center for Reproductive Rights delivered a 23-page memorandum to his transition team, calling for ''bold policy change,'' including a repeal of the gag rule. 
 On Sunday, in a sign that the presidential campaign had definitively ended and that the fast-forming administration had become the focal point, the faces of Mr. Obama's new team appeared across the spectrum of Sunday talk shows, a changing of the guard more than two months before he officially assumes power.
 Mr. Obama's new chief of staff, Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, said the federal government should provide aid to the automobile industry to help the major automakers and their suppliers survive the financial crisis. General Motors, the largest American automaker, said last week that it had been losing more than $2 billion a month recently from its cash cushion and could face bankruptcy.
 Mr. Emanuel told the CBS News program ''Face the Nation'' that the industry was ''an essential part of the economy,'' echoing remarks that Mr. Obama made at his first post-election news conference last week.
 Restating Mr. Obama's points, Mr. Emanuel said the Bush administration should accelerate $25 billion in federal loans provided by a recent law to help automakers and suppliers retool to build more energy-efficient vehicles. He said that the Bush administration had the power to do more and that Mr. Obama's economic team, once chosen, would devise options for helping the industry in ways that had the added benefit of being ''part of an energy policy, going forward, where America is less dependent on foreign oil.''
 The idea of turning the auto industry's crisis into a chance to enact changes with energy and environmental benefits is one that Mr. Emanuel has promoted in Congress. But he said that Mr. Obama had yet to settle on his proposals or whether he would announce them before he was sworn in.
 ''Rule one: Never allow a crisis to go to waste,'' Mr. Emanuel said in an interview on Sunday. ''They are opportunities to do big things.''
 Mr. Podesta, who for months has been preparing for the transition, said in an appearance on ''Fox News Sunday'' that Mr. Obama was considering Democrats, Republicans and independents for key cabinet positions. While previous presidents have not announced such appointments until December, Mr. Podesta suggested that officials with responsibility for the economy, national security, health care and energy portfolios could be named sooner.
 ''I think he intends to move very quickly,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''And you know, he's beaten a lot of records during the course of the campaign.''
 Mr. Obama does not intend to name any cabinet officials this week, aides said Sunday, but could announce additional White House decisions on senior staff members as early as Tuesday as he begins building his administration, from the Oval Office to other positions in the West Wing and other parts of the government.
 Mr. Emanuel said Congress needed to extend unemployment insurance benefits and offer states a lift in paying for health care bills. When the new Democratic Congress convenes in January, he said, it should tackle a wider economic stimulus package that includes the middle-class tax cut that was a centerpiece of Mr. Obama's presidential campaign. 
 ''You cannot have a strong and resilient economy that does not have a strong and resilient middle class,'' Mr. Emanuel said on ''This Week'' on ABC. ''They have been squeezed over the last number of years, and it is essential to have an economic strategy that strengthens them going forward.''
 Mr. Emanuel said an economic stimulus package in Congress should not be linked to a free-trade agreement with Colombia, as some Republicans have sought to do. Democrats have resisted those efforts, saying it does not provide enough labor protection.
 The executive orders of the Bush administration are among the many items being reviewed by the new Obama team. The transition operation that was set up in August, even before Mr. Obama was formally nominated at the Democratic convention, included a plan to scrutinize the policies that could be reversed through executive orders.
 The Bureau of Land Management is poised to open about 360,000 acres of public land in Utah to oil and gas drilling, a plan that the Bush administration has argued would not harm the land. Environmentalists have opposed the idea, a sentiment echoed by Mr. Podesta on Sunday.
 ''I think across the board, on stem cell research, on a number of areas,'' Mr. Podesta said on ''Fox News Sunday,'' ''you see the Bush administration even today moving aggressively to do things that I think are probably not in the interest of the country. They want to have oil and gas drilling in some of the most sensitive, fragile lands in Utah that they're going to try to do right as they are walking out the door. I think that's a mistake.''
 Mr. Bush used his first prime-time address, on Aug. 9, 2001, to announce his decision (technically a policy pronouncement and not an executive order) to permit federal financing for human embryonic stem cell research, albeit with strict limitations. Scientists and patient advocates have spent years pressing him to loosen the restrictions; Mr. Bush has twice vetoed legislation that would have done so. 
 ''It will have been eight years that we have been operating in a limited funding environment,'' said Larry Soler, a board member of the Coalition for the Advancement of Medical Research, an umbrella group representing 100 organizations. ''I think everyone in the scientific community and the patient community is geared up and expecting this and excited to make this happen. It's been a long struggle.''
 Responding to questions about how Michelle Obama intends to shape her time as first lady, Valerie Jarrett, a close adviser to Mr. Obama and a longtime family friend, said Mrs. Obama would first concentrate on getting her daughters, ages 7 and 10, adjusted to a new city and a new school. She said Mrs. Obama would forge her own style, dismissing a question about whether she would be more like Hillary Rodham Clinton or Laura Bush.
 ''Her model will be Michelle Obama,'' Ms. Jarrett said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC. ''She's going to be her own first lady. There'll be nothing like it. Having a seat at the table and being a co-president is not something that she's interested in doing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Valerie Jarrett on ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday. Ms. Jarrett, an adviser to President-elect Barack Obama and a longtime family friend, is one of the leaders of Mr. Obama's transition team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES FOR MEET THE PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (84%); AUTOMAKERS (84%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (72%); ABORTION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); FAMILY PLANNING (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (78%); JOHN PODESTA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



442 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: When Charity at Home Begins Abroad

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
 IN the 20 years since Toyota opened its first plant in the United States, its reputation as a corporate philanthropist has grown along with its vehicle sales.
 Its gifts have ranged from cash grants for education groups to minivans for Special Olympics West Virginia to allowing farmland near its Indiana assembly plant to be used by local chapters of the National FFA Association, or Future Farmers of America.
 Now, with the Detroit auto companies scaling back charitable donations after a slump in car sales, Toyota, which expects to earn $5.5 billion worldwide this year, has emerged as an alternative source of money, even though it is experiencing the same slowdown that has hit American carmakers. Still, it continues to make donations, even in those companies' backyard. 
 In 2007, Toyota, which has five plants in the United States and is set to open a sixth in 2010 in Blue Springs, Miss., donated $57 million to schools, arts organizations, environmental groups and other American charities. Among those donations: $2 million to the Detroit Science Center for a new theater, set to open in December, that will showcase the stories of engineers for students.
 Toyota's contributions have continued this year with its largest ever, a $20 million donation to the National Audubon Society for environmental programs. And, when it opened a safety and engineering center in York Township, Mich., last month, Toyota donated $100,000 to two local school systems, a park and Michigan's economic development fund.
 ''I don't think there's any way we can supplant what the Big Three are doing,'' said James E. Wiseman, vice president of external affairs for Toyota. ''There's no way we can cover for them if their giving drops significantly, but we're trying to do our part, and then some.'' 
 Indeed, the Detroit companies' shortfall would leave a big gap. 
 The Ford Motor Company Fund spent $37.7 million in 2006, the latest year for which figures are available, ranking it 18th among corporate funds, according to the Foundation Center, which tracks corporate giving. That same year, the General Motors Foundation spent $29.4 million, making it 21st on the center's list. (Toyota did not appear on the list in 2006.)
 But Toyota's gifts have not always been perfectly well-received. 
 Its grant to Audubon, earmarked for a five-year program called TogetherGreen, generated a flurry of debate on the Internet. Toyota said the money would pay for education programs, nature centers and a volunteer effort.
 But after the donation was announced, it turned out that the society was one of the plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the National Park Service, accusing it of failing to regulate driving on the beaches at Cape Hatteras National Seashore in North Carolina.
 A company spokesman, Mike Michels, said the money could be used only for programs Toyota had designated, not funneled to legal action.
 Nonetheless, there were sharply worded messages on the company's Open Road Blog. Many suggested that Audubon might use the money to penalize Toyota customers who owned sport utility vehicles that could be driven on North Carolina beaches and those elsewhere.
 Toyota prefers that its donations have a friendlier effect. Ever since it opened its first American factory in Georgetown, Ky., in 1986, the automaker has emphasized the need to be a good neighbor to the towns and states where it does business.
 That philosophy was expressed to Mr. Wiseman, then in charge of public relations at the plant, in an hourlong conversation with Kaneyoshi Kusunoki, the executive sent from Japan to serve as the factory's chairman.
 Toyota's first donation, announced when the plant was dedicated, paid to renovate a community center in Georgetown. Since then, it has spent about $400 million on donations to American organizations, Mr. Wiseman said.
 Given the difficulties facing Detroit companies, as well as financial institutions that have long been active in philanthropy, Toyota has emerged as a company that still has money to spend.
 ''People do swamp us,'' Mr. Wiseman said. ''We get far more good requests than we can possibly say yes to.'' 
 The company is selective about the causes it backs. For instance, although it has long been a supporter of the Japan Society in New York, Mr. Wiseman said the company was not interested in supporting programs just because of a Japanese connection.
 Nor does Toyota want to become involved in local political issues, like proposals to raise taxes to pay for parks near factories. 
 Although that might fit Toyota's environmental bent, Mr. Wiseman said some Toyota employees might take offense if the company was involved.
 Instead, Toyota has prioritized donations to education programs, followed by arts and environmental organizations and groups that encourage diversity.
 It supports umbrella organizations like United Way and participates in community campaigns like the Fine Arts Fund in Cincinnati, near Toyota's manufacturing and engineering headquarters in Erlanger, Ky.
 Toyota's American employees are also encouraged to volunteer, and some have appeared on billboards promoting community involvement. 
 Mr. Wiseman said that in 2005 Toyota felt it had to challenge unfounded Web reports that the company had failed to help New Orleans and other cities battered by Hurricane Katrina. Two weeks after the storm, Toyota announced it had given $5 million to organizations like the American Red Cross, and that its dealers also had participated.
 ''Rumors started over the Internet that Toyota hadn't given anything, and in fact we had given millions,'' Mr. Wiseman said. ''We wanted to head that off.'' 
 He also said Toyota believed its public service activities could pay off in the marketplace.
 ''We try not to overdo it, but we want to do it to a certain extent because the people who buy our cars and trucks are increasingly interested in whether we are trying to be good public citizens,'' he said. ''We wouldn't want to be doing all this to hide our light under a bushel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOOD NEIGHBOR: When Toyota opened a Michigan safety and engineering center last month, it donated $100,000 to local schools and other causes, reflecting its policy of supporting charities and public organizations in areas where it has plants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); NATIONAL PARKS (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); LITIGATION (60%); OLYMPICS (57%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (57%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION (57%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (58%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



443 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2166 words

HEADLINE: Pakistanis Mired in Brutal Battle to Oust Taliban

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and PIR ZUBAIR SHAH

DATELINE: LOE SAM, Pakistan 

 BODY:
When Pakistan's army retook this strategic stronghold from the Taliban last month, it discovered how deeply Islamic militants had encroached on -- and literally dug into -- Pakistani territory.
 Behind mud-walled family compounds in the Bajaur area, a vital corridor to Afghanistan through Pakistan's tribal belt, Taliban insurgents created a network of tunnels to store arms and move about undetected. 
 Some tunnels stretched for more than half a mile and were equipped with ventilation systems so that fighters could withstand a long siege. In some places, it took barrages of 500-pound bombs to break the tunnels apart.
 ''These were not for ordinary battle,'' said Gen. Tariq Khan, the commander of the Pakistan Frontier Corps, who led the army's campaign against the Taliban in the area. 
 After three months of sometimes fierce fighting, the Pakistani Army controls a small slice of Bajaur. But what was initially portrayed as a paramilitary action to restore order in the area has become the most sustained military campaign by the Pakistani Army against the Taliban and its backers in Al Qaeda since Pakistan allied itself with the United States in 2001.
 President-elect Barack Obama has pledged to make the conflicts in Afghanistan and Pakistan a top priority. The Bajaur campaign serves as a cautionary tale of the formidable challenge that even a full-scale military effort faces in flushing the Taliban and Al Qaeda from rugged northern Pakistan. 
 Pakistani officials describe the area as the keystone of an arc of militancy that stretches across the semiautonomous tribal region of Pakistan and into Afghanistan. 
 Under heavy pressure from the United States, Pakistani officials are vowing to dislodge the Taliban fighters and their Qaeda allies who have taken refuge in the tribal areas. 
 But a two-day visit to Loe Sam and Khar, the capital of Bajaur, arranged for foreign journalists by the Pakistani military, suggested that Pakistan had underestimated a battle-hardened opponent fighting tenaciously to protect its mountainous stronghold. 
 Taliban militants remain entrenched in many areas. Even along the road to Loe Sam, which the army laboriously cleared, sniper fire from militants continues.
 The Pakistanis have also resorted to scorched-earth tactics to push the Taliban out, an approach that risks pushing more of their own citizens into the Taliban's embrace.
 After the Frontier Corps failed to dislodge the Taliban from Loe Sam in early August, the army sent in 2,400 troops in early September to take on a Taliban force that has drawn militants from across the tribal region, as well as a flow of fighters from Afghanistan.
 Like all Pakistani soldiers, the troops sent here had been trained and indoctrinated to fight in conventional warfare against India, considered the nation's permanent enemy, but had barely been trained in counterinsurgency strategy and tactics.
 A Heap of Rubble
 To save Loe Sam, the army has destroyed it. 
 The shops and homes of the 7,000 people who lived here are a heap of gray rubble, blown to bits by the army. Scraps of bedding and broken electric fans lie strewn in the dirt.
 As Pakistani Army helicopters and artillery fired at militants' strongholds in the region, about 200,000 people fled to tent camps for the displaced in Pakistan, to relatives' homes or across the border into Afghanistan. 
 The aerial bombardment was necessary, Pakistani military officials say, to root out a well-armed Taliban force. 
 The Pakistani Army and the Frontier Corps, the paramilitary force responsible for security in the tribal areas, say 83 of their soldiers have died and 300 have been wounded since early August. That compares with 61 dead among forces of the American-led coalition in Afghanistan in the first four months of 2008. 
 At some point, probably over a period of several years, though no official could explain exactly when, the militants dug the series of well-engineered, interconnected tunnels. 
 The military now believes such tunnels lace much of Bajaur, where the militants still control large swaths of territory, General Khan said in an interview at his headquarters in Peshawar, the capital of North-West Frontier Province.
 Bajaur is no ordinary prize. The militants seized it because of its strategic location beside Kunar Province in Afghanistan, where American and coalition forces are fighting the Taliban.
 The area serves as a gateway to Kunar for Taliban fighters from other parts of the tribal belt, particularly Waziristan, to attack American forces. 
 Bajaur provides access south to Peshawar, one of the nation's major cities, which is under threat from the Taliban. 
 And it offers a land bridge to more settled parts of Pakistan, like the Swat Valley to the east, where the army is struggling to contain the Taliban. 
 The fight is now a test of strength between the army and Tehrik-i-Taliban, the umbrella group of the Pakistani Taliban, allied with Al Qaeda, General Khan said. 
 The army will fight until it has captured all of Bajaur, he said. 
 Arabs, Uzbeks, Tajiks and Afghans form the hard core of its opponents, enlisting young, unemployed local men who join the militants for money and the prestige of sitting armed with a rifle in a double-cabin pickup, the favored Taliban vehicle, General Khan said.
 American officials have said they believe some important Qaeda leaders are hiding in Bajaur. 
 In 2006, a United States missile attack from a remotely piloted aircraft on the village of Damadola was aimed at killing the top deputy to Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahri.
 Villagers in the Mohmand tribal agency, adjacent to Bajaur, said that they saw Mr. Zawahri in the northern part of Mohmand in September and that he had arrived with his wife to inspect a house, stayed the night, then left in a convoy of vehicles. 
 Advance of the Taliban
 It was in response to the 2006 strike that the Taliban started taking over Bajaur, according to the government's senior civilian official in the area, Shafirullah Khan.
 Its methods were ruthless. Homeowners were coerced or paid to allow the militants to use their premises as bases, Mr. Khan said. Those who resisted were killed, often by beheading.
 A well-known Afghan Taliban fighter, Zia ur-Rehman, directed and fortified the operation with his own men, bringing hundreds of fighters from Afghanistan last November, Mr. Khan said.
 By last December, the Taliban had pushed government-armed local tribesmen, known as levees, out of their checkpoint at Loe Sam. By June, the Taliban had destroyed more than half of the 72 checkpoints in Bajaur. 
 The Taliban disrupted the workings of the civilian government, staging a suicide bombing of a truck carrying the salaries for teachers, and robbing a major bank, Mr. Khan said. 
 In August, as Pakistan's resolve to take on the insurgents hardened, the army dispatched Maj. Ijaz Hussain and nearly 150 Frontier Corps troops to recapture the strategic junction of Loe Sam. 
 They had little idea what they were in for. With scarce ammunition and little water in fierce heat, they fought the Taliban in close combat but were quickly surrounded. 
 Two convoys sent to rescue them were decimated by militants, who attacked from their tunnels.
 Ordered to retreat, the corpsmen escaped under cover of night through cornfields in sloshing rain, evading Taliban pursuers and gunfire from government helicopters. 
 In the failed recapture attempt, 29 Frontier Corps soldiers were killed and others were severely wounded, Col. Shahbaz Rasul of the Frontier Corps said. 
 Panic spread. A few days later, the crenellated fortress walls of the government compound in Khar were in danger of being overrun. More than 300 of the levees protecting the compound fled, leaving 35, Mr. Khan said.
 ''One of the basic problems of our fighting system is the intelligence failures,'' said General Khan, the Frontier Corps commander. ''Aggressive patrolling should have been done. It wasn't done.''
 Interviews with Pakistani Army officers, and a ride under army escort along the road from Khar to Loe Sam, showed that many of the soldiers seemed to be unprepared to fight a fast-moving, highly motivated and well-disguised insurgent force.
 General Khan and other Pakistani military officials complained that they did not have the proper weapons and equipment to take on the militants, including radar and current intelligence. 
 The Taliban fighters, meanwhile, had heavy weapons and communications systems that could disguise their whereabouts, as well as the ability to home in on army radios.
 Lt. Col. Javed Baluch, whose troops were sent to Bajaur in early September, said that even the terrain had surprised them. The khaki-colored earth dips and swerves every 25 yards; crevices suddenly become hillocks, and scattered clumps of trees and bushes can conceal snipers. 
 The militants were king, because the civilians had been ordered out of the area by the army in early August, in anticipation of the fight.
 ''The enemy had a lot of advantage,'' Colonel Baluch said. ''They knew the area completely. We were told we would meet foreign fighters and local fighters supporting them. The resistance unfolded differently.''
 His mission was to clear Taang Khatta, a place thick with militants. It was a spot where the Frontier Corps forces had faced stiff resistance in August. 
 On the first day that his soldiers advanced on foot along the road to Taang Khatta, they were ambushed, he said. 
 The insurgents were invisible, hidden behind the thick mud walls of the compounds, their rifles poking through narrow slits. 
 ''Small arms have no effect on the walls, and that's what we were carrying,'' Colonel Baluch said. ''We did not know where to fire back.''
 The attack came from three directions, but the guerrillas made a mistake. 
 ''When they shouted, 'God is great,' it was helpful to us,'' Colonel Baluch said. The voices gave away their location.
 In the end, it took five days and the loss of four men to conquer Taang Khatta, a mere bend in the road, just about a mile from the Khar headquarters.
 Still, Colonel Baluch was lucky, he said. The push to capture another tiny place, Nisarabad, farther up the road, left 12 soldiers dead and 46 wounded.
 The final assault on Loe Sam was led by Maj. Anwar Saeed, 37, who was experienced in fighting the Taliban in North Waziristan, the base of the most hardened militant fighters in the tribal belt.
 It was ultimately captured on Oct. 21, and reduced to ruins in the process.
 ''When you capture a compound, the adjacent one becomes a firefight,'' he said. ''They were fighting and firing, and throwing grenades at us from 25 meters away.''
 Yes, he knew the people who had lived here were now bereft. ''I know many have suffered because of our actions,'' Major Saeed said. ''But the government is going to take care of them.''
 What Lies Ahead
 In Peshawar, however, some of the store owners from Loe Sam whose property was crushed said there were limits to their understanding.
 They had heard no word about their return or about reconstruction, said Hajji Shakir, the owner of two stores in Loe Sam, as he sat on the floor of a crowded house with a group of fellow merchants, clutching the account books that he had escaped with.
 ''If the government doesn't rebuild, we will be thieves, suicide bombers,'' he said. ''We will be forced to do these things.'' 
 Mr. Khan, the chief government representative in Bajaur, said he had funds, provided by the United States Agency for International Development, for rebuilding. But he did not know when it would begin. 
 Some of the displaced said they were also angered by the high number of civilian deaths, many of them incurred when Pakistani jet fighters and helicopter gunships attacked Taliban redoubts.
 The military said last week that 95 civilians had been killed in the Bajaur conflict, but the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan said that the number seemed low. 
 There is no reliable count, because the commission was barred from investigating. 
 Similarly, there is little agreement about how many militants the army has killed in the three months of the Bajaur campaign. 
 The army says 1,500. But two officers, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were contradicting their superiors, said that the number appeared excessive. One army captain involved in the fighting said 300 seemed closer. 
 While the resistance had been reduced on the flat land, one thing was certain: as the military prepares to fight the militants in the mountainous areas in Bajaur, progress will be more difficult. 
 In his wood-paneled office, Col. Nauman Saeed, the officer in charge of day-to-day operations at the headquarters in Khar, said he was mired in a classic guerrilla conflict.
 In September, he said, Taliban leaders in Bajaur had replenished their forces with 950 more men from Afghanistan. 
 ''You keep killing them,'' Colonel Saeed said, ''but you still have them around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Pakistani tank in Loe Sam on Oct. 25. Four days earlier, the government forces had finally ousted the Taliban from the town, which is at a strategic crossroads.
 Pakistani soldiers in the ruins of Loe Sam. Many of the 7,000 residents have fled to Afghanistan or refugee camps. (POOL PHOTOS BY EMILIO MORENATTI)(A12) MAP: The Pakistani Army vows to fight until it controls all of Bajaur. Map details Loe Sam, Pakistan.(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (93%); ARMIES (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); RELIGION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2009



444 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Booksellers and Publishers Nervous as Holiday Season Approaches

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
For the book industry the question for the forthcoming holiday shopping season may be whether more people are like Francisco Clough or like Jacqueline Belliveau. Both were browsing in the Barnes & Noble on Union Square in Manhattan late last week, but Mr. Clough only looked, while Ms. Belliveau bought her second book in two days.
 Dressed in a black suit and carrying a zippered leather portfolio, Mr. Clough, 36, said he had quit his job at a small brokerage firm on Wall Street six months ago. Fresh from a job interview, he flipped through a ''Green Lantern'' graphic novel but didn't buy it. ''There were probably five books I would have bought if I were not unemployed,'' he said.
 Ms. Belliveau, on the other hand, bought Carole Walter's ''Great Cookies,'' just a day after purchasing Michael Pollan's ''In Defense of Food.'' An architect who was laid off recently, she has turned down invitations to travel and downgraded her gym membership. She has found another job, but Ms. Belliveau, 40, is still being careful about expenses -- except books. ''I like to have a collection of the history of what you read,'' she said. 
 Like many businesses across the retail sector, the publishing industry has been hit by a raft of doom and gloom in the past few weeks. Leonard S. Riggio, chairman and largest shareholder of Barnes & Noble, said in an internal memorandum predicting a dreadful holiday shopping season, as first reported in The Wall Street Journal last week, that ''never in all my years as a bookseller have I seen a retail climate as poor as the one we are in.''
 Last week HarperCollins, the books division of the News Corporation, reported that fiscal first-quarter operating income had slid to $3 million from $36 million a year earlier, despite its publication of the Oprah Winfrey-anointed novel ''The Story of Edgar Sawtelle'' by David Wroblewski. A week earlier Doubleday Publishing Group, a unit of Random House, laid off 16 people, a 10 percent cut in staff. At the time the company said the move did not presage further layoffs in other publishing divisions, but industry insiders said they would not be surprised to see more.
 Also this month Rodale, the magazine and book publisher, laid off 14 people in its book division, a little more than 7 percent of the staff.
 Long before the current financial crisis, Borders Group, struggling against online and big-box retailers, had announced it was looking at a potential sale of itself. Given current economic conditions, publishers are nervously watching to see what happens with the company.
 Now, most everyone in publishing is bracing for a difficult holiday season while trying to remain optimistic about the enduring allure of books. 
 ''A book is still this incredibly lovely, respectable gift,'' said Jamie Raab, publisher of Grand Central Publishing, and is ''a lot cheaper than the other luxury items that people tend to buy at Christmas.''
 ''So we could get lucky and see that it really works in our favor,'' she added. 
 Grand Central is enjoying strong sales of titles by the novelists Nelson DeMille and Nicholas Sparks, as well as of ''Dewey: The Small-Town Library Cat Who Touched the World,'' but it also is waiting to see how Ted Turner's ''Call Me Ted,'' for which it spent more than $5 million, will sell. Ms. Raab said the company had printed 625,000 copies and had shipped more than 500,000.
 With several publishers reporting that booksellers were cutting orders for January, Ms. Raab acknowledged that she was concerned about a post-New Year's downturn. ''You know to a certain extent people will be in the stores during the holidays,'' she said. ''What will happen once there is no reason to be in the stores?'' 
 Booksellers are trying new tactics to help ring up sales. At Book Passage, an independent bookseller in San Francisco and Corte Madera, Calif., Elaine Petrocelli, an owner, said she recently instituted a policy giving priority seating at book readings to those who purchase the book. Last month she sold 160 copies at a reading by Katherine Neville, author of ''The Fire,'' a thriller about a chess prodigy.
 Still, Ms. Petrocelli said she had noticed an overall decline in foot traffic at her two stores compared with this time last year. As a result, she said, she has decided not to hire holiday-season help. Usually she hires three or four people part time.
 Not surprisingly, publishers, too, are looking for ways to cut costs. Print runs are being scrutinized, and companies are trying to reduce the number of unsold copies that are returned by booksellers, a painful practice in the best of times.
 Some publishers are also looking at their (famously generous) travel and entertainment budgets. Steve Ross, publisher of Collins, a division of HarperCollins, said he recently took a job candidate for a drink at a Midtown hotel and was shocked by the $22 price for cocktails. ''I think it will be awhile before I will have the pleasure of meeting anybody there,'' Mr. Ross said. 
 For now, both publishers and agents said the penny pinching was not yet sinking seven-figure book deals. Although some might be cautious about signing a debut novelist, most publishers said they were still aggressively pursuing deals for celebrity books and others with natural best-seller prospects. Last month Little, Brown & Company signed a deal with the comedian Tina Fey for a sum reported as more than $5 million, and Jerry Seinfeld was out with a book proposal this week that some publishers suggested could go for a high seven-figure advance. 
 ''The paradox is we have to continue to acquire books and compete against each other in a tough marketplace,'' said Jonathan Burnham, publisher of Harper, an imprint of HarperCollins. ''We're trying to be fiscally responsible about royalty advances, and yet the big books are the books that everybody wants, so we're still in this climate of having to pay large levels of money in these auctions. You can't really step away from that.'' 
 Christy Fletcher, a literary agent in Manhattan, said royalty advances for so-called midlist authors could come under pressure. ''Something may sell for $50,000 that would have sold for $100,000 a year ago,'' she said.
 Publishers continue to plan for blockbuster sales of marquee-brand books. Free Press, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, for example, has shipped 1.25 million copies of ''You: Being Beautiful -- The Owner's Manual to Inner and Outer Beauty,'' Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz's next book in their best-selling series of advice titles, which goes on sale on Tuesday. HarperCollins has shipped more than 300,000 copies of ''The Hour I First Believed,'' the new novel by Wally Lamb. (In March that publisher had announced a first-print run of half a million, though these numbers tend to be exaggerated.)
 One silver lining of the downturn: Because many books are not selling as well as they might have in a better economy, it does not take nearly as many copies to have bragging rights about being a best seller. 
 There still may be something to the theory, much circulated these days, that books can provide an escape from financial misery. When ''Gone With the Wind'' was published in 1936 during the Great Depression, it sold a million copies in its first year and stayed at No. 1 on best-seller lists for two straight years -- before it was a movie tie-in.
 Then again, they didn't have the Internet or television back then. But some publishing insiders suggested that readers might be looking for a respite from the digital world. 
 ''I think that people have not been reading for the past year because they've been checking political blogs every 20 minutes,'' said Larry Weissman, a literary agent. ''At some point I think people are going to say, 'You know what, this is not nourishing.' I think and I hope -- and maybe it's just blind hope -- I think there is a yearning for authenticity out there, and people are going to go back to the things that really matter, and one of those things, I hope, will be reading books.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); RETAILERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (84%); NEWS CORP (65%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (65%); NWS (ASX) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (84%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (58%); STEPHEN RIGGIO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



445 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing Cultures of India, From A to Z

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

DATELINE: TEJGADH, India 

 BODY:
In an academy deep in the agrarian countryside of western India, five students were writing briskly in ruled notebooks. They were in their early 20s and newly enrolled, but there was no discounting the gravity of their assignment: When they are finished, the world will have five more documented languages. 
 One word at a time, they are producing dictionaries of languages with which they grew up, but which scarcely exist in the rest of the world. These are oral languages, whose sounds have perhaps never before been reproduced in ink. 
 ''If we make this, those who come after us will profit from it,'' said Kantilal Mahala, 21, taking a brief respite from his work on the Kunkna language. ''In my village, people who move ahead speak only Gujarati. They feel ashamed of our language.'' 
 It is not only obscure languages that these students are trying to chronicle and preserve, but also cuisines, sartorial habits and other significant elements of rural culture. Like drivers heading downtown at rush hour, the students see everyone else going the other way. A swelling class of Indian aspirants from small towns and villages like Tejgadh sees urban life and the English language as pathways to affluence, security and respect. 
 Had it not been for Ganesh Devy, a former professor of English literature who founded the academy more than a decade ago, the young people in this rural community might have gone down that path. He created the school, known as the Adivasi Academy, with a burning question on his mind: Why do we wait for cultures to die to memorialize them? 
 ''There is a continent of culture getting submerged, and that's why I wanted to take the plunge,'' Mr. Devy said. 
 With financing from the Ford Foundation and other philanthropic groups, the Adivasi Academy tries to preserve a culture by steeping a new generation of villagers in their own quickly disappearing traditions. 
 Tejgadh is home to one branch of India's vast population of adivasis, or ''original people.'' Sometimes compared to Native Americans and Australia's Aborigines, the adivasis are highly fragmented, with nearly as many languages and cultures as there are clans. But there are common threads. 
 The clans traditionally inhabited hilly or forested areas, where they lived nomadically, hunting and foraging. They are known for a respect for nature, for their bonesetters and shamans, for their worship of elephants and trees instead of abstract gods, for a love of art and for a lack of interest in material accumulation. 
 Tejgadh is home to the Rathwa clan, famed for wall paintings. When a person falls ill, the Rathwas often invite a painter to come along with a shaman. As the painter decorates the walls, the shaman enters a trance and guides his brush strokes. 
 In recent years some people in Tejgadh have become professional artists, one example of a deeper transformation. Modernity has been creeping in to the villages, and young people have been pouring out. But they are unprepared. They grew up speaking a language no one recognizes beyond their village, and they are inexpert in Gujarati, Hindi and English, the languages of urban employment. In the cities, they find it difficult to escape the most menial jobs. 
 Mr. Devy wanted to combat this gravitational force. Could adivasis be persuaded to study their culture rather than shed it, and to stay in the villages rather than flee? 
 In the academy's museum, adivasi culture is depicted as if it no longer existed. The exhibits feature kitchen implements, jars of adivasi foods, hand-tossed pottery, jugs for homemade liquor. If the idea were to explain adivasis to outsiders, the museum might be in New Delhi. But the goal, instead, is to impress upon adivasis that their culture is worthy of preservation. 
 ''If a community has a strong sense of identity and a sense of pride in that identity, it wants to survive and thrive,'' Mr. Devy said. ''The new economy is important. The old culture is equally important.''
 The students making dictionaries were working in the academy's principal course, called tribal studies. Students are generally taught in both Gujarati and Hindi, given the absence of books in their own languages. 
 Vikesh Rathwa, 27, graduated two years ago and, like most of the academy's alumni, he chose to stay in the villages and work for Bhasha, the academy's parent organization. 
 ''Before, I thought I would get a B.A. and M.A. and make a film,'' he said. 
 Immersion in his heritage changed his mind.
 ''Coming here made me see my household life in a new way,'' he said. Now, he is writing a book on adivasi art and science. ''We need to walk in step with our traditions,'' he said, quickly adding, ''and with technology, too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Young students in Tejgadh, India, worked on making dictionaries of the oral languages with which they grew up. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANAND GIRIDHARADAS/THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) MAP: The village of Tejgadh is home to a preservation academy. Map details Tejgadh, India. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (83%); PAINTING (74%); LITERATURE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (65%); PHILANTHROPY (62%); FOUNDATIONS (62%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



446 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Applications Surge for Courses at CUNY's 2-Year Colleges

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
At Hostos Community College in the South Bronx, located in what the 2000 census found to be the nation's poorest Congressional district, 176 people have applied to study nursing this year, up from 135 in 2007. 
 In Bayside, Queens, admissions officers at Queensborough Community College have been flooded with 200 applications in the past two months from students who recently obtained their high school equivalency diplomas but have had trouble finding work. 
 And an increasing number of adults looking for a second income have been turning to the continuing education department at La Guardia Community College in Long Island City for classes in taxi driving and computer repair; enrollment in computerized bookkeeping for Windows is up 57 percent. 
 ''This is unprecedented,'' said Winston Yarde, Queensborough's director of admissions. ''When Circuit City lays off hundreds of employees, these are the students who are coming to Q.C.C. to prepare themselves for careers in electronic technology, not just jobs.''
 After a decade of steady growth, the economic crisis has led to a spike in applications across the City University of New York's community colleges. In September and October -- one-third of the application period for the spring semester -- the number of applicants who made a CUNY college their first choice was already 15 percent greater than all of last year. In some fields, like health services, the growth has been even more rapid, as much as 30 percent on some campuses. 
 The increased demand comes as CUNY is wrestling with how to deal with steep cuts in its budget. New York State has cut $69 million and New York City $11 million from CUNY's $2.4 billion this calendar year. When state leaders gather next week to find some way to make up an expected $12.5 billion shortfall, school officials expect to take another hit.
 In a telephone interview on Monday, Chancellor Matthew Goldstein said he would most likely appeal to the State Legislature and Gov. David A. Paterson to raise tuition next year, noting that it had been five years since there was an increase; current tuition at CUNY's community colleges is $2,800 a year, compared with $4,000 at the system's four-year colleges.
 ''How do you deal with a declining revenue base and more and more students wanting to come?'' he asked. ''It is a difficult balance and we worry about it every day.''
 About 81,000 students attend the city's six community colleges, up from 62,000 in 1999. Past economic downturns in the early 1980s and early 1990s also spurred enrollment at the schools, and Dr. Goldstein said CUNY's success would be measured by how quickly its leaders shift resources to bolster programs that are in high demand.
 ''Whenever there is a downturn and growing unemployment, not all the economic sectors are impacted in the same way,'' he noted.
 The president of Hostos, Dolores M. Fernandez, said that the largest growth had been in nursing, radiological technology and dental hygiene, and that the school had used a work force development grant to offer nursing courses in the evening and on weekends. 
 ''As the economy continues to be problematic, the students that come to Hostos will continue to be the least prepared and most economically vulnerable,'' Dr. Fernandez said in an e-mail message.
 Focus groups at Queensborough suggest that the demand is coming both from recent high school graduates and adults long out of school. Mr. Yarde, who attends high school recruiting events frequently, said that he was getting an increasing number of inquiries from parents seeking classes for themselves.
 He said one woman told him that her husband had just lost his job and that she was looking to develop some marketable skill. Another said she had always been a housewife but did not feel secure now without some type of job training.
 Indeed, the city's community colleges cater to a wide swath of students whose expectations and goals vary widely. For some, the schools are a first step toward a four-year degree; others are looking for career-specific training to give them an advantage in a competitive marketplace.
 Regina S. Peruggi, president of Kingsborough Community College in Brooklyn, pointed to her school's programs in tourism, hospitality and the maritime industry -- areas with strong employment prospects in New York but few applicants.
 Jane MacKillop, associate dean of La Guardia's adult and continuing education division, focuses on helping people develop skills that make them more competitive. ''People are trying to shore up their current positions by getting further qualifications and becoming certified in their field,'' she said in an e-mail message. ''Our taxi driver training program has seen a 5 percent increase this semester. 
 ''Often people will take the course as a means to eventually earn a second income. However, our real estate license preparation course had no enrollments this fall. Not a huge surprise given the current housing market and credit crisis.''
 La Guardia is also trying to tailor its curriculum, with the winter 2009 catalog including these new economy-related courses: How to Recession-Proof Your Resume; How to Economize in Difficult Times; and How to Stretch Your Dollar Online.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hostos Community College in the South Bronx now offers nursing courses in the evening and on weekends.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CENSUS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); BUDGET CUTS (64%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



447 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Bigger Holes To Fill

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The American International Group said on Monday that it lost almost $25 billion in the third quarter and had secured a new $150 billion government assistance package intended to stem the bleeding from its complex financial contracts.
A central component of the new package will be to get the most tainted assets out of the company, in an effort to stop the collateral calls that have been rapidly draining A.I.G.'s cash. A.I.G.'s trading partners in these financial contracts will largely be made whole in the process.
Since mid-September, when A.I.G. suddenly came to the brink of collapse, its problems have become steadily bigger and costlier to fix. Originally, the Federal Reserve rushed in with an $85 billion line of credit. When that proved inadequate, the Fed added a $38 billion supplementary lending facility, and A.I.G. recently qualified to sell $21 billion of commercial paper to the Fed.
''These terms are not sustainable,'' Edward M. Liddy, the insurance executive brought in to lead A.I.G. through the crisis, told securities analysts in a conference call Monday, referring to the high interest rates on the original loans. 
The company has reported $38 billion in losses this year, wiping out the company's total reported earnings for the preceding three years.
The new assistance package reduces the original $85 billion loan to about $60 billion, lowers the interest rate and gives A.I.G. five years, instead of two, to pay it off. The government will also use money from its Troubled Asset Relief Program to buy $40 billion of preferred shares in A.I.G.
Another important feature will be government investments of about $50 billion to create special-purpose entities to relieve the company of its most tainted assets.
About $30 billion of the government money will be used to buy complex debt securities that were insured by A.I.G. and about $20 billion more will be used to buy securities backed by home loans.
A.I.G.'s counterparties -- financial institutions in the United States and Europe -- have not borne significant losses on the financial contracts that led A.I.G. to the brink, and the new program suggests they will not.
''We're funding somebody on the other side'' of A.I.G.'s derivatives contracts, said Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant with the Securities and Exchange Commission who has been critical of the way the insurer's crisis has been handled. Even though a large amount of public money is being extended, neither A.I.G. nor the federal government has been willing to provide the names of the company's biggest counterparties, or their amount of exposure.
''We've had way too many things here that nobody knows anything about,'' said Mr. Turner, who is on the Treasury's Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession. ''That's why no one has faith in the capital markets.''
Another critic said that A.I.G. would still have to contend with other financial contracts that were not addressed in the rescue but that might deteriorate in the future. ''I think it will help, but I don't think it will solve the whole problem,'' Donn Vickrey, founder of Gradient Analytics, an independent securities research firm, said of the latest plan.
Mr. Vickrey noted that A.I.G. had insured several different types of debt securities, and the type now being dealt with was the first to go bad because it was linked to subprime debt. ''As the economy deteriorates, I would expect the other debt lines to incur more losses,'' he said.
The Treasury official overseeing the government's financial relief said that revising the A.I.G. rescue plan was a one-shot deal that would be accompanied by stringent conditions to protect taxpayers.
Neel Kashkari, assistant secretary of the Treasury, said the move was ''necessary to maintain the stability of the financial system.''
At the heart of A.I.G.'s troubles are a type of derivative called credit-default swaps. They are essentially a kind of insurance that A.I.G. wrote on complex securities, known as collateralized debt obligations, sold in recent years to financial institutions. By issuing the swaps, A.I.G. was promising to pay these institutions -- A.I.G.'s counterparties -- if the debt securities defaulted.
A.I.G. wrote a large book of business on the thinking that such defaults were unlikely. As the economy has soured, though, some of the securities have weakened and shown signs of failure.
The insurance contracts have also proved crushingly expensive for A.I.G. because they included provisions requiring it to post collateral under certain circumstances, showing that it could afford to keep its promises. For instance, a downgrading of A.I.G.'s own creditworthiness could prompt a big collateral call.
That is what happened to A.I.G. in mid-September. It was suddenly required to come up with more than $10 billion in collateral, pushing the company to the brink. Much of the original $85 billion line of credit from the Fed has been spent fulfilling collateral calls.
Although A.I.G. wrote its insurance contracts on more than $400 billion of various types of complex debt securities, only about $70 billion worth of the securities are thought to be at imminent peril of default. A.I.G. refers to this batch of securities as multisector C.D.O.'s, because they combine a number of different types of debt.
Under the new plan, A.I.G. and the government will together create a new special-purpose entity to buy up the multisector C.D.O.'s. The C.D.O.'s will be quarantined in a place where it no longer matters much whether their value rises or falls, because A.I.G.'s own balance sheet will not be affected.
Also, because A.I.G.'s counterparties will no longer own the multisector C.D.O.'s, the company will not have to provide insurance coverage against default anymore. When the insurer cancels the troublesome insurance contracts, it will put an end to the collateral calls that have depleted its cash so severely.
The special-purpose entity will be financed with $5 billion from A.I.G. and $30 billion from the federal government. The entity will buy securities with a fair value of about $70 billion. The counterparties, which in aggregate had already pried about half that amount out of A.I.G., will be allowed to keep the collateral as well, people familiar with the planning said.
That will leave A.I.G. with losses of about $30 billion that it has already taken on its multisector C.D.O. insurance program, said Andrew Kligerman, a securities analyst at UBS.
''That's permanent,'' Mr. Kligerman said. ''They're never going to get that $30 billion back,'' because the assets are being sent into quarantine.
But because A.I.G. and the government will be jointly holding the tainted assets in the special-purpose entity, he said, A.I.G. will share any income with the government. The government is the senior partner in the special purpose entity and will receive an interest rate of the three-month Libor plus 1 percentage point and will be entitled to be repaid for its investment first. A.I.G. will receive Libor plus 3 percentage points.
In exchange for the emergency loan, the Fed has received a warrant entitling it to a 79.9 percent stake in A.I.G. The new package does not change that.
Mr. Liddy said he believed that A.I.G. was ''on the road to recovery,'' although the turnaround would still take time, he said. Even with the help of the government, he said, A.I.G.'s success would still depend on whether world financial markets came back to normal. He declined to say how long the process would take, or how long it would take the special-purpose entity to be formed and make its purchases.
While A.I.G. recovers, Mr. Liddy said, it will be paying market rates of interest on all loans from the federal government. ''It is not exactly a bailout,'' he said.
A.I.G.'s third-quarter report suggested that its core insurance business was also coming under pressure as the economy weakened. While about $7 billion of its quarterly losses, on a pretax basis, were connected with the insurance coverage A.I.G. sold on other institutions' assets, a bigger share of the losses, about $18 billion, were incurred because the assets in A.I.G.'s investment portfolios had fallen in value.
Of that total amount, losses of a little less than $12 billion were on investments made under A.I.G.'s securities lending program, which is handled mostly by its life insurance subsidiaries. A.I.G. had previously been given a $38 billion credit facility from the Fed to support its securities lending activity, but said on Monday that that facility would be extinguished under the new program.
Instead, the government will invest $20 billion in A.I.G. to create a second special-purpose entity to hold other tainted investments, often backed by residential home loans, from its securities lending program. A.I.G. will invest $1 billion in that entity.
Mr. Liddy also said that A.I.G. had experienced a loss in its property and casualty business because of claims from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, but said A.I.G.'s exposure was in line with that of the rest of the industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neel Kashkari, assistant secretary of the Treasury, said revising the A.I.G. plan was necessary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEBT FINANCING (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (73%); INSURANCE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PREFERRED STOCK (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



448 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Reports Big Sales Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Consumers worldwide who are watching their spending bought more burgers and chicken breakfast biscuits at McDonald's in October, leading to a big rise in sales at established locations for the fast-food leader. 
 The McDonald's Corporation said Monday that its global same-store sales rose 8.2 percent during the month. That beat the company's own prediction for a rise similar to the one it recorded in its last quarter, when same-store sales, or sales at locations open at least a year, jumped 7.1 percent worldwide.
 The results were a bright spot in what was a dismal month for most restaurant operators. Many conventional restaurant chains have reported steep declines in same-store sales during October as consumers grow more anxious about the possibility of a prolonged recession.
 But consumers in the United states kept spending at McDonald's.
 Same-store sales rose 5.3 percent in the United States, helped by new menu items, including the Southern Style Chicken sandwich, and continued demand for breakfast items. The company's popular dollar menu and its annual Monopoly promotion also drew in value-hungry consumers.
 Same-store sales rose 9.8 percent in Europe and grew 11.5 percent in the Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa region. Demand was particularly strong in Australia, the company said.
 McDonald's said total sales rose 5.4 percent during the month.
 A Morningstar analyst, John Owens, said the results showed McDonald's was probably benefiting from diners who might ordinarily go to more expensive conventional restaurants but were gravitating to fast food to save money.
 ''It definitely shows they are recession-resistant,'' Mr. Owens said.
 Shares of McDonald's, which is based in Oak Brook, Ill., climbed $1.01, to $56.48.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); SAME STORE SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (92%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (94%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (67%); AUSTRALIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



449 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Strapped for Cash, and Worried About a Pledge You Can't Afford

BYLINE: By LAUREN LIPTON

 BODY:
As president of the nonprofit Al Sigl Center in Rochester, Daniel M. Meyers remembers the last time an economic downturn left donors worrying about how to fulfill their pledges. It was in 2001, after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The center, a collaboration of independent rehabilitation agencies that serves about 60,000 disabled people in the Rochester area, was wrapping up a capital campaign for which donors had promised $20 million. 
 About a dozen of the 400 donors ''asked for more time to pay their pledge as a result of 9/11 or a variety of individual circumstances,'' Mr. Meyers said. In the end, those donors either eventually paid or are continuing to pay what they had promised -- a total of $250,000.
 In the best of economic times, organizations are accustomed to working with donors whose fortunes change because of divorce, a death in the family or other issues. ''It's something every charity has to deal with,'' Mr. Meyers said. 
 As the economy shrinks, nonprofit institutions are preparing for an increase in pledge deferrals. From major public charities to the Ivy League, fund-raising professionals are quietly reporting that they have had conversations with donors about pledges they may be unable to fulfill in the manner they had planned.
 If you are facing such circumstances, there are ways to try to negotiate a pledge deferral:
 RUN THE NUMBERS Meet with your financial adviser or lawyer to discuss your financial situation and possible payment plans, as well as any tax consequences of deferring your gift. ''A pledge is deductible when it is fulfilled, not when it's made,'' said Conrad Teitell, chairman of the National Charitable Planning Group in the Stamford, Conn., office of the law firm Cummings & Lockwood. Therefore, deferring a payment may have an impact on your tax bill. 
 A variety of factors affect any individual tax-planning strategy, but the rule of thumb is, ''You want to get a deduction in a year that you are in a higher bracket, rather than a year you're in lower bracket,'' Mr. Teitell said.
 If in 2008 you will be in the 35 percent bracket, a $1,000 charitable donation will reap $350 in tax savings. If in 2009 you are in a 20 percent bracket, the same $1,000 will bring only $200 in savings. If you itemize deductions and expect your income to fall in 2009, honor as much of the pledge as you can this year.
 SET PRIORITIES If you have promised donations to more than one charity or nonprofit organization and are debating which to defer, consider the plight of each group. An older group with a large endowment may be better able to weather a stormy period than a smaller, less-established one that operates using money collected in a given year.
 Donors may also choose to concentrate their efforts on social service charities that may be more in demand in hard economic times, or, conversely, to honor their commitments to groups likely to see a downturn in donations, such as local arts programs. 
 It matters, too, whether your donation is paying for crucial services or frills. A $5,000 restricted pledge toward landscaping the rose garden at your alma mater may be something you can put off; an unrestricted pledge of $5,000 to your spouse's alma mater's annual fund may be crucial.
 ''Every school depends on its annual fund to close the gap between tuition and operating costs'' like heating and maintenance, said Anne Gahl, a private school development executive in Litchfield, Conn. ''They need that money on a yearly basis.'' 
 Donors having a hard time making tough choices among multiple organizations might choose to defer a small portion of every pledge. If you have divided $100,000 in pledges equally among five charities and now need to defer a total of $20,000, ''it surely would be far easier for the donor to negotiate deferral of five $4,000 pledges to each organization than to induce one charity to take the entire $20,000 hit,'' said Thomas Troyer, a tax lawyer who represents and advises private foundations and other tax-exempt organizations at the Washington firm of Caplin & Drysdale.
 CONTACT THE ORGANIZATION Once you have developed your strategy, get in touch with the charity or nonprofit group as soon as possible, because it may need to adjust its budget as a result of the cash shortfall. If you have pledged a major gift -- which might be anything from $500 into the millions, depending on the size and budget of the organization -- you are likely to have a personal contact there already. If you do not, ask for the development office. Explain your situation honestly and directly, and do not be ashamed; this is probably not the first time the organization has been in this situation, and it will want to work with you.
 ''In essence, it will be a negotiation,'' Mr. Troyer said. ''The donor says, 'I can't do it now,' '' and the charity ''might come back and say, 'What can you do? What arrangements can we make for the contribution in the future?' '' 
 From there, you and the charity can discuss possible solutions, including dividing the promised sum into smaller amounts spread over a longer period of time, reducing the amount of the original pledge or, in some cases, forgiving it completely. The organization is likely to push for the first option and try to keep the time frame as short as possible.
 ''You hate stretching it out for too long because donors lose interest,'' said Ms. Gahl, the private school development officer. ''The person pledges to a campaign, they're all psyched, and two years down the road their child is in college and maybe the economy is down, and now they have other things on their minds.''
 PURSUE CREATIVE SOLUTIONS If you must reduce or defer your gift, consider other ways to help. 
 ''This year, people have basically said to us, 'Things are tight; I may need to give a little less,' '' said Purvi Shah, executive director of Sakhi for South Asian Women, a small New York charity that provides aid to and advocates for South Asian survivors of domestic violence.
 Ms. Shah encourages such donors to host house parties; the organization provides a film or comes to talk about its work, and guests can make modest pledges that, in aggregate, can make up for the host's shortfall. Professionals like health care providers and lawyers can soften the blow by donating necessary services. 
 Donors should also be sure to take advantage of their employers' matching grant programs. ''That could be a way you actually deliver immediately'' on your original promise, Ms. Shah said. ''It's great to be able to say, 'I can give you half of my pledge now, will apply for a matching gift, and will give the other half later.'''
 If you have to defer your pledge, there may be one more concern: Can the charity sue to make good on the donation?
 Though laws vary slightly by jurisdiction, in general, a charitable pledge is considered a legally enforceable contract, experts say.
 ''On the other hand charities virtually never enforce it,'' said Mr. Troyer, the tax lawyer. The chance of the charity collecting the sum is slim, and a lawsuit could scare off potential benefactors. 
 Most organizations try to develop long-term relationships with donors; they realize that a supporter who has been treated respectfully may well make a new pledge when his or her fortunes improve. But because the possibility of a lawsuit exists, it is important when making a major gift to consult a lawyer or financial adviser. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (69%); TAX PLANNING (69%); TAX LAW (69%); LAWYERS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



450 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: For Regulators, A.I.G. Is Exhibit A

BYLINE: By LAUREN SILVA and FIONA MAHARG-BRAVO

 BODY:
The American International Group has become a money pit for the United States government. The insurance giant's new $150 billion bailout is bigger and looks easier on A.I.G. than its previous two facilities, in aggregate $123 billion, from the Federal Reserve. The package is better defined than before, but the increased potential burden on taxpayers is embarrassing for the Fed and the Treasury. It underlines the need for regulation that catches any group that's too big to fail.
In structural terms, A.I.G.'s Bailout 2.0 looks like an improvement. It aims to solve the company's main problem -- the cash bleeding from its $400 billion credit-default swap portfolio -- by unwinding the worst of the instruments completely in a kind of ''bad bank'' separate from A.I.G.'s insurance businesses. It's doing something similar with a collection of dodgy mortgage-backed securities. In addition, the Treasury will invest $40 billion in preferred securities under its Troubled Asset Relief Program, and the New York Fed will replace its existing $85 billion credit facility with a new $60 billion loan with a much lower interest rate. 
This should all help keep A.I.G. afloat while also bringing an end to the collateral calls that have caused a huge outflow of cash. It should also buy the insurance giant time to sell some of its assets. However, the plan amounts to burdening taxpayers with all of A.I.G.'s losses while still leaving shareholders and even management with a slice of any upside.
That seems too generous, but the Fed's earlier strategy to protect taxpayers was always wishful thinking. A.I.G.'s size and market significance meant it had the government over a barrel. The insurer's finance operations had grown far too big to fail, while operating in large part in the cracks between different regulators' territories.
If the Fed and the Treasury have now done enough to stabilize the situation, that offsets some of the embarrassment of having to bail out their own initial bailout. Longer term, regulations need to capture any company that becomes too significant to the financial system. Rewriting the currently inadequate rulebook is an important task for President-elect Barack Obama. A.I.G. makes for a persuasive Exhibit A.
Santander's U-Turn
They say Spain is different, but its biggest bank may not be so different after all. Like many of its European peers, Santander has pulled a U-turn on capital. Days after its chief executive, Alfredo Saenz, said the bank didn't need more capital, Santander has begun raising 7.2 billion euros (about $9.2 billion) with a deeply discounted rights issue.
The about-face reflects the increasing nervousness of investors about the bank's capitalization. Santander's core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of the strength of its capital, stood at 6.3 percent at the end of September, but was expected to drop below 6 percent as the bank absorbed its recent glut of acquisitions.
Santander could have increased its capital organically by retaining profits over time. That may have been adequate by yesterday's standards, particularly for a retail bank with minimal exposure to toxic subprime housing assets. But the goalposts have moved, and Santander woke up late to the sentiment shift. The rights issue will take the ratio up to a more comfortable 7 percent.
Turnabouts can dent confidence and make investors suspicious. Santander insists it has no skeletons rattling about in its closet. Nor is it planning any further acquisitions, it says. But shareholders are now likely to be more skeptical about taking what management says at face value.
Santander, which recently acquired Sovereign Bancorp, is issuing the shares at a steep 46 percent discount. Still, the bank looks to be a cut above its peers. It isn't tapping the government for the capital. Its dividend looks safe through 2009. Its do-it-yourself approach is also on more shareholder-friendly terms than other recent bank transactions. Credit Suisse diluted existing shareholders and issued expensive preference shares to investors from the Middle East. Barclays did the same at an even steeper price.
What's more, by finally relenting to the market's demand that it raise more capital, Santander has piled the pressure on other refuseniks. Deutsche Bank, BBVA of Spain and Italian institutions are looking increasingly stubborn in holding out. Like Santander, they all claim to be different. But toughing it out in the face of investor skepticism is looking like a untenable strategy.
LAUREN SILVA and FIONA MAHARG-BRAVO
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Santander, Spain's largest bank, suddenly says it needs more capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HANNA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); EURO (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); SANT (LIS) (84%); SANT (BIT) (84%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (84%); SAN (NYSE) (84%); SAN (MCE) (84%); SAN (BMV) (84%); BNC (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANTABRIA, SPAIN (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



451 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Profits In Nonprofits

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
DESPERATE times in the fund-raising world call for innovation. While some solutions may come from within nonprofits, others are emerging from a new crop of social entrepreneurs operating for-profit ventures. 
 Though committed to serving charity, they make no apologies for their devotion to the bottom line: they want to do well themselves as they introduce new fund-raising options.
 The following start-up businesses draw on consumer buying habits and Internet traffic patterns to provide charities with much-needed cash. 
 Public-Private Partnership Jon Carson, 51, chief executive of cMarket, a company in Cambridge, Mass., that helps charities run online auctions, sees himself as ''the guy in the middle between the for-profit and nonprofit worlds.'' Most recently this has involved brokering what he calls ''product placement partnerships'' between charities and retailers that donate items to be auctioned. 
 The problem, as Mr. Carson perceived it, is that many such donations were not formally planned or well organized. Retailers might donate merchandise they wanted to unload; arrangements often depended on personal contacts -- a friend from school, a neighbor -- that could change from year to year. 
 His goal has been to convince retailers that such donations are a form of targeted marketing that can drive sales. 
 Early this year, Mr. Carson hired a full-time employee to solicit donated goods and services that charities could auction. He then offers them at no cost to nonprofits that agree to sign up for cMarket's online auction service, Bidding for Good. That service costs $595 a year, and the charity pays cMarket a commission of 9 percent on the first $10,000 received, and lesser fees thereafter.
 During the last 10 months, product placement donations, including 300 travel packages to Cancun, have generated $2 million for charity. ''It's a win-win, because charities are glad to get the donated items,'' Mr. Carson said. For marketers, every winning bidder is a potential customer. Those who never used the product or service are essentially paying to try it, except that the money is going to charity.
 This strategy evolved from a much simpler business concept. Two years after selling his previous company, Family Education Network, to Pearson Education in 2000 for $175 million, Mr. Carson met a team of people working to put charity auctions online. He invested $250,000 in the enterprise and helped raise $3 million more from investors in Family Education Network, who asked that he oversee the new entity. In 2006, he determined that opening an online auction to the general public, as well as to the charities' supporters, would drive up demand and, with it, the bids for auctioned items. That, in turn, generated more money for charities and gave him a selling point with which to seek goods. 
 Mr. Carson said 80,000 shoppers, mostly affluent baby boomers, had registered to bid on his site (biddingforgood.com); the goal for 2009 is to increase that to 300,000. Although cMarket is not yet profitable, Mr. Carson said he hoped it would be next year. 
 Celebrity Appeal When Kelly Fiore, 31, started Charity Folks in 2004 as an online auction company serving nonprofits, she was not deterred by cMarket's presence. Her idea was to carve out a separate niche, featuring the celebrity-driven experiences typically offered at live auctions during charity galas -- like a round of golf with John Daly or a ''master class'' with Billy Joel.
 Knowing that such auctions had raised significant sums, she sought to use the Internet (at charityfolks.com) to broaden the market for them from a single roomful of people to a worldwide audience, including fan clubs and message boards. 
 Ms. Fiore had worked as a portfolio analyst at Lehman Brothers, and a former colleague there provided $100,000 in seed money. Angel investors contributed an additional $2.2 million in 2006. 
 Ms. Fiore started the enterprise in her TriBeCa apartment, making cold calls to celebrities' publicists, seeking access to music tours, album releases, movie premieres and athletic events. She was prepared to handle one-shots, in addition to annual auctions of charities with celebrity supporters, whether from nonprofits that didn't want to wait for the next gala or from high-profile individuals raising money for their own nonprofits.
 She has found that shoppers are generally drawn by the item rather than the charitable cause, so Charity Folks can be searched by charity, category or celebrity. A recent offering included all 400 tickets to Billy Joel's Oct. 27 ''master class'' at the Hard Rock Cafe in Manhattan, where he sang and took questions from the audience. Two stage seats that included a meet-and-greet with Mr. Joel fetched $27,500, and the event brought in $300,000 for Mr. Joel's nonprofit, Charity Begins at Home. 
 Also in October, John Daly, the golfer, donated a trip for three to the 2009 British Open in Turnberry, Scotland, including travel with him on his private jet, accommodations at his villa, socializing and a round of golf with him. The package sold for nearly $100,000 through Charity Folks, to be split equally by St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital in Memphis and an autism education program at Western Kentucky University. 
 Last year, Charity Folks entered into a $1 million partnership with Sony BMG Music Entertainment to publicize the company's artists and raise money for charity at the same time. 
 For example, a Grammy Awards package in February included a chance for two people to fly from New York to Los Angeles with the singer John Legend on his private plane, three nights in a hotel and tickets to the event. It raised $10,000 for Mr. Legend's charity, the Show Me Campaign. The successful bidder had to pay for the required background check (de rigueur for Charity Folks' celebrity offerings) and the flight home.
 Charity Folks charges a 20 percent commission on all sales. Interspersed with what Ms. Fiore described as ''ridiculous, over-the-top items that cost a ton of money'' are more mundane offerings on the Web site, like cosmetics-filled train cases and autographed movie posters. Amid the recent financial uncertainty, she has had to adjust expectations -- both about when her own company may become profitable and about how much bidders are likely to pay. 
 Giving without Giving In today's troubled economy, Ken Ramberg's recipe for fund-raising is simple: give people at all income levels a tool for benefiting charity without spending a dime. GoodSearch, the Los Angeles-based company that he and his sister JJ founded in 2005, tries to do just that. 
 Their vehicle is an Internet search engine called GoodSearch (goodsearch.com), powered by Yahoo. A visitor to the site can both initiate a search and specify a charity; GoodSearch donates a penny to the charity for each search. A charity with 1,000 supporters searching the Internet twice a day will receive $7,300 in a year.
 Since the company started, users have chosen to benefit more than 68,000 nonprofits and schools. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, for example, has received $18,800 in donations, Mr. Ramberg said. GoodSearch adds 100 charities each day, drawn from users' request, after vetting them to make sure they are legitimate, Mr. Ramberg said. 
 The charities pay nothing to participate, and at first thought ''it was too good to be true,'' said Ms. Ramberg, 38, who was previously a television reporter. ''In the beginning they vetted us, too.'' 
 Mr. Ramberg, 43, was already a successful entrepreneur when he started GoodSearch. The founder of Jobtrak -- a job listing and resume database for college students -- he presumably made his fortune (he would not discuss financial matters) in the dot-com era when he sold the company to Monster.com in 2000. 
 Like other search engines, GoodSearch generates revenues from display ads that visitors may click on after they see the search results. Yahoo and GoodSearch split these fees, and GoodSearch, in turn, donates half of what it receives. Mr. Ramberg said his company was profitable. 
 A year ago, a sister site, GoodShop, was added. It donates half the commissions the company receives when it links visitors to online retailers. Visitors to GoodSearch remain anonymous, and they get the same results as if they had initiated the query from Yahoo.com, Mr. Ramberg said. So far, the biggest challenge is getting people who rely on other search engines, like Google, to use GoodSearch instead.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOOD SEARCHERS: On JJ and Ken Ramberg's Web site, charities profit from visitors' Internet searches.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSe MANDOJANA)
 MIDDLE MAN: Jon Carson, whose company, cMarket, helps charities run online auctions, at his office in Cambridge, Mass.(PHOTOGRAPH BY C. J. GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CHARITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (88%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (88%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); STARTUPS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); SALES PROSPECTING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SALES & SELLING (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%)

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC (63%)

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (63%); PSO (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



452 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: When the Cupboard Is Bare

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
REBECCA MUSCARELLO had long worked as a secretary, so she never imagined that at age 35 she would be left with no choice but to take her two children to a food pantry to get groceries. But like a growing number of Americans whose jobs have evaporated in a shrinking economy, Ms. Muscarello ran out of money and then food.
Since the spring, the number of people showing up hungry at food pantries and soup kitchens has surged, straining the capacity of many organizations in the vast, largely unseen and lightly financed network of volunteer emergency feeding operations. Many are newcomers who were reluctant to seek help until they had no choice.
In the four months since June, demand for food aid has risen 20 percent in areas of the country with the healthiest economies and more than 40 percent in areas with the weakest, leaders of nonprofit food-distribution organizations say. And they predict that the need will keep growing in 2009 if the job market continues to contract, as expected. 
Requests are so high that some food centers are turning away the hungry. In Winston-Salem, the Second Harvest Food Bank of Northwest North Carolina posted a notice on its Web site advising food pantries and soup kitchens of an 8- to 10-week wait to find out whether their membership had been approved.
Kitty Schaller, who runs the Manna FoodBank in Asheville, N.C., said that while demand was up, donations had fallen because of the local economy. ''We are flat against last year on contributions,'' she said. ''The trouble is, expenses are going up and it is a very uncertain future in terms of our ability to have enough goods in the warehouse'' to meet demand.
Her agency supplies food to more than 330 pantries, soup kitchens, shelters and other such operations in 16 counties, on a budget of just $2.5 million, half of which comes from individual and foundation gifts, with another 5 percent from the local United Way.
Even when much of America is prospering, hunger is a significant problem, according to annual reports issued by the United States Department of Agriculture.
One American household in nine was ''food insecure'' (the government avoids the word ''hungry'') for part of 2006, and more than a third of these households ''had very low food security -- meaning that the food intake of one or more adults was reduced and their eating patterns were disrupted at times during the year because the household lacked money and other resources for food,'' according to a recent department report.
The federal study estimated that 35.5 million people -- nearly as many as live in California -- sometimes lack enough to eat and that 10.1 million adults and children, roughly the population of Michigan, often go hungry in America.
What makes the demand so striking this year is not only the suddenness but also the demographic that is seeking help. Most of the newcomers have been employed and have managed to survive dips in the job market. Many of them are couples and single parents who, like Ms. Muscarello, had managed without handouts.
''A lot of people coming to us have never been to a charitable distribution center before,'' said Larry Sly, executive director of the Foodbank of Contra Costa and Solano, two counties east of San Francisco where about 1.6 million people live.
''We are getting people whose work is always up and down, and they have lived with that their whole lives because they work construction,'' Mr. Sly said. ''Construction here has just stopped, and so we have carpenters and masons and electricians who have not worked on a new house in forever. So it is not that they are out of work for some weeks and then they go back to work. There is nothing for them, and they cannot imagine when there will be work again.''
At the core of the problem is the lack of job growth. The number of Americans earning any wage grew by two million a year in the 1990s, but at only half that rate in the first seven years of this decade. In recent months the economy has been shedding jobs at a quickening pace, especially in construction and manufacturing.
At the same time, tax data show that 55 percent of Americans have no interest-bearing savings accounts to draw on during hard times. Among the bottom half of taxpayers, who make less than $30,000, two-thirds have no interest income.
And every year another major problem further squeezes emergency feeding organizations, a movement that began in the mid-1970s as a temporary solution to hunger and then grew as wages in many industries stagnated and employment became less secure.
The food industry used to be a major source of supplies, donating truckloads of canned goods and other foods with long shelf lives. Then, two decades ago, every part of the food industry except cereal makers began embracing quality control. Improvements in quality control meant there was almost no chance that a ton of spaghetti sauce had a bit too much oregano or that thousands of labels were misprinted.
So the big donations of food that were once easy to come by have now become, like jobs, increasingly scarce, food bank directors say.
''We have been unable in the last several months to obtain the amounts of food on an ongoing basis that we usually did,'' said Clyde Fitzgerald, executive director of the Second Harvest food bank in Winston-Salem .
''Our local sources, those major grocery chains, continue to come through wonderfully. But where we're having difficulty is in the national network of feeding America because the calls we used to get from the national food companies saying 'We have truckloads of excess product and how much do we send you?' have stopped.''
Surplus production is often sold to overseas markets at a discount that brings food manufacturers more than the value of the tax deduction of a charitable donation, food bank managers across the country said in interviews.
And donations from grocers have fallen, said Jilly Stephens, executive director of City Harvest in New York, because of two factors. One is the rise of secondary grocers who buy canned and boxed goods whose ''best if used by'' dates have passed, food that used to be donated. The other is a growing practice of shipping such past-date foods overseas, she and others said.
Food banks are nonprofit wholesalers that gather and store foods, then distribute them to pantries, which act as free grocery stores, and to soup kitchens, which serve meals.
There are roughly a thousand pantries and soup kitchens in New York, said Ms. Stephens. City Harvest collects surplus food from restaurants and grocers and distributes it to nearly half of these volunteer feeding operations. It also operates a twice-monthly farmers' market in the South Bronx, providing fresh produce at no charge, part of a small but growing trend among emergency food providers.
The Bush administration has also started shifting the federal government's support of food banks toward more vegetables and fruits, and away from surplus agricultural commodities like nonfat dry milk, butter, peanut butter and lard.
But that does not address, and may even increase, the need for cash to fuel delivery trucks and pay for electricity to run coolers and refrigerate storage rooms, as well as to buy food to supplement what comes from businesses and government.
Each dollar of donated money, many food bank managers said, can be leveraged through barters, buying surplus products and otherwise arranging for $12 or more of food. City Harvest, for example, relies on 100 paid employees and 700 volunteers who gather surplus food and deliver it. ''One of the big misconceptions is that we collect waste, which we do not,'' Ms. Stephens said.
Ms. Muscarello's woes began with Hurricane Katrina, which hit Chalmette, La., a tiny refinery town, even harder than New Orleans, a few miles to the west. Her marriage broke up, and she lost her secretarial job and then her job as a cook at a local diner, which closed, like so many other businesses in town.
''I want a job, and I just paid $800 for rent so I have to get a job,'' Ms. Muscarello said. ''And it's not just me, it's like 87 percent of this community, because there are no jobs right now. People are losing jobs left and right because businesses are shutting down.''
She said that ''food stamps get you just so far.'' She relies on a food bank for canned goods and similar items, she said, and saves her food stamps for meat, vegetables and fruit.
Not only have jobs disappeared in her area, but so have agencies that offer help.
Natalie Jayroe, president of Second Harvest Food Bank of Greater New Orleans and Acadiana, said that after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, the number of agencies that her organization supplied with food had dropped to 270 from 400, across 23 Louisiana parishes.
''There is nothing like being hit with your distribution chain being swept away to make you realize how crucial distribution networks are,'' she said.
Over the decades, the way food is obtained and what is eaten has changed significantly. Many people who lived through the Depression, for example, recorded in diaries the way they grew food in their yards, storing cabbages and other vegetables in root cellars to provide vitamins in winter, and canning other foods, some of them gleaned from orchards and fields.
Today, far fewer Americans have experience making foods from scratch, and fewer still understand food preservation, which requires both skill and an investment in steam cookers, jars and lids, said Janet Poppendieck, a Hunter College sociologist who has studied emergency food needs.
''We have seen a major shift in the way people prepare foods and eat foods over the last one or two generations,'' said Vanessa Ulmer, policy and advocacy coordinator of Tulane University's Prevention Research Center, which seeks to reduce obesity by promoting access to fresh, healthy foods.
Her center is one of many working to change cultural attitudes about food and to revive these skills. But that change could take a generation or longer, she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRONX BOUNTY: City Harvest, which collects surplus food from restaurants and grocers, runs a twice-monthly farmers' market in the South Bronx.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1)
STOCKING UP: Rebecca Muscarello, left, picking out groceries with her children at the Community Center of St. Bernard in Arabi, La.
and an early morning line, above, at the City Harvest market in the South Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 DEMAND GROWS: Perusing produce at the farmers' market run by City Harvest in the South Bronx.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (94%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); APPROVALS (67%); WEB SITES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECOND HARVEST (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



453 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: As the Economy Declines, Donors Rethink Estate Plans

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
FOR donors, a crucial question has always been how much to give to charity while alive and what to leave in an estate plan. The current economic crisis is causing many people to rethink their original answer.
 ''Will I have enough to retire comfortably?'' and ''Do my spouse and children need a larger inheritance than I previously assumed?'' are among the issues distracting donors from philanthropy, leaving charity ''a second-class beneficiary,'' said Henry Christensen III, a lawyer with McDermott Will & Emery in New York.
 Gifts made during your lifetime, if you can afford them, can be much more tax efficient, said Lawrence P. Katzenstein, a lawyer with Thompson Coburn in St. Louis. One benefit is being able to take an income tax deduction for the year in which the gift was made. 
 Another benefit, he said, is available for people with more than $2 million in assets and thus subject to estate taxes. A donation reduces your net worth and leaves less that could be subject to the 45 percent estate tax. In contrast, if you make a gift in your will, your estate can take a charitable deduction against only the estate tax -- there is no income tax write-off. 
 Even during tough times, people committed to charity will continue to be generous, said Howard M. McCue III, a lawyer with Mayer, Brown in Chicago and an optimist. But it may be necessary to adapt plans put in place earlier, change the timing of certain donations and create more flexibility about which beneficiaries get what later, he said.
 Here are some considerations:
 You cannot afford to fulfill a pledge For some donors, this has become a pressing concern. In most cases and ''in most states, a promise to make a gift is not enforceable,'' said Reynolds Cafferata, a lawyer with Rodriguez, Horii, Choi & Cafferata in Los Angeles. But if the charity has relied on your promise -- for example, in building a hospital -- or given you something in return, like naming that hospital in your honor, the pledge may be enforceable, he said. 
 A middle ground is trying to modify the terms. You might cut the payments in half, for example, or skip this year's installment, in both cases extending the payment schedule. Or you might agree to include a charitable bequest in your will for the amount you cannot cover during life. 
 As a practical matter, ''charities generally do not sue donors who walk away from enforceable pledges,'' Mr. Cafferata said, but the state attorney general, who oversees charities, might bring suit.
 Be aware, too, that a donor who is on a charity's board could face tax consequences under what is known as the excess benefit rule, if the charity forgives the pledge or agrees to renegotiate it. The rule says is that if a charity enters into an economic transaction with an insider, and the value that the charity gives to the insider exceeds the value that the insider gives back to the charity, the difference is considered an excess benefit. The insider must return the excess benefit to the charity and pay a penalty equal to 25 percent of it.
 Jeffrey Comfort, executive director of planned and principal gifts at Georgetown University, said the current downturn had not produced any requests to renegotiate pledges -- so far. Based on past experience, he said Georgetown would most likely ''be willing to work with donors to meet their philanthropic interests and their current financial situation.''
 You depend on income from your investments Even very wealthy donors who previously might have made an outright gift to charity are now more cautious because of uncertainty about the financial markets, Mr. Christensen said. Increasingly, these donors are exploring life income gifts, which can provide a lifetime income stream for the donor or any designee while benefiting charity. 
 Of the available choices, the one that appeals to the largest number of people right now is the charitable gift annuity, experts in charitable giving say. With this arrangement, the donor contributes assets -- typically cash or marketable securities -- and the charity agrees to pay a fixed amount of money annually to that person and perhaps the surviving spouse.
 The size of the annuity payment varies. Typically it is based on the individuals' ages and suggested maximum rates from the American Council on Gift Annuities. One donor in his 80s who recently contacted the New York City Opera decided to triple his contribution, to $30,000, when he heard that he could earn an annuity of 7.6 percent, said Alicia Benoist, senior development officer at the opera. 
 You Have Second Thoughts About a Remainder Trust In this approach, you put assets into a trust, which makes payments to you or to someone you specify for a certain period. When that term ends, the charity gets what's left. 
 How the trust was structured determines whether you are insulated from the vicissitudes of the market. With what is known as a charitable remainder annuity trust, you receive a fixed amount each year based on the initial value of the trust. A down market does not affect the donor but might leave less for charity in the end. 
 Donors are much more vulnerable with a so-called charitable remainder unitrust, in which charitable beneficiaries get a percentage of the value of the trust, which is reappraised each year. If you are now in that situation and you need the money, you may want to end the arrangement early, experts in charitable giving say. 
 Technically, all charitable remainder trusts are irrevocable, but there are ways to collapse them legally, said Conrad Teitell, a lawyer with Cummings & Lockwood in Stamford, Conn. One strategy involves exchanging the income interest for a charitable gift annuity and its preset income stream. In that case you can take a charitable deduction for the difference between the value of the unitrust interest you are trading and the present value of the annuity -- a complex calculation.
 Alternatively, after computing the value of the two interests, you can simply divide the trust or sell the unitrust interest to the charity and reinvest the proceeds. Unfortunately, either of these strategies can have significant tax drawbacks.
 You assumed you would have more money If your will divides the pie between family and charity according to fixed percentages (for instance, ''40 percent to my wife, 20 percent to each of my two children and 20 percent to charity'') the arrangement ''may be seriously out of kilter,'' Mr. Christensen said. One solution is to amend your will to impose a floor, so family members get at least the amount you specify (subject to an inflation adjustment) before anything goes to charity. 
 Similarly, if your will provides for charity to get a fixed amount, you can add a ''circuit breaker,'' so that it does not exceed a certain percentage of your estate, said Alan S. Halperin, a lawyer with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in New York. 
 A charitable bequest might shortchange your family If you aren't prepared to make significant charitable bequests through your estate plan because you're not sure if your heirs will need the money, you can give your heirs the option of shifting assets to a charity through what is called a disclaimer. 
 Basically, a disclaimer specifies that if the heirs say ''no thanks'' to an inheritance, the assets go to the specific charity or charities that you -- not the heirs -- name. Although many wills include disclaimers, the heirs rarely invoke them when charity is next in line, Mr. McCue said. In real life, ''the children take the money,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CHARITIES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CHARITIES LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INCOME TAX (68%); HOSPITALS (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%)

COMPANY: MCDERMOTT WILL & EMERY LLP (84%); RODRIGUEZ HORII CHOI & CAFFERATA LLP (81%); MAYER BROWN LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



454 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Tribune Company Loses $121 Million

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The Tribune Company, owner of newspapers including The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, along with the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field, said Monday that it lost $121.6 million in the third quarter as newspaper advertising revenue fell. 
 The company, which is privately held, had net income in the comparable quarter a year earlier of $152.8 million. Revenue fell 10.5 percent, to $1.04 billion, from $1.16 billion a year ago, the company said.
 ''We are operating in an exceptionally difficult financial and economic environment,'' the chief executive, Sam Zell, said in a statement. ''The newspaper industry continues to see extraordinary declines in ad revenues, and Tribune is no exception.''
 Publishing revenue fell 13 percent, to $654 million, as advertising revenue dropped 19 percent.
 Revenue from the broadcasting division, which includes 23 TV stations, fell 8.3 percent, to $264.4 million, from $288.3 million a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (88%); BASEBALL (88%); PRINT ADVERTISING (88%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); PUBLISHING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



455 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 776 words

PERSON: Bernard W. Rogers 

HEADLINE: Bernard W. Rogers, 87; Innovative Army Chief

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Gen. Bernard W. Rogers, the intellectual and opinionated former chief of staff of the United States Army and commander of NATO who developed strategies to help his service adjust to an all-volunteer force and new generations of weapons, died Oct. 27 in Falls Church, Va. He was 87.
 The United States European Command announced the death. 
 General Rogers, a Rhodes scholar, was an innovative thinker, whether in adjusting strategy to more nimble electronically guided weapons or in tailoring Army traditions for a new generation of soldiers. As an infantry commander, he eliminated routines that he believed served no useful purpose, like reveille, roll calls and Saturday inspections.
 His unconventionality culminated in his criticizing the Reagan administration as moving too rapidly toward an arms control agreement with the Soviet Union on intermediate-range missiles in 1987. He said in interviews with The Washington Post and other news organizations that White House officials were racing to get a deal before leaving office.
 General Rogers had already said in an interview with The New York Times in 1986 that the scale of arms reductions the Americans and Russians were discussing gave him ''gas pains.'' He argued that shorter-range nuclear missiles were necessary to deter a Russian ground attack on Western Europe.
 In June 1987, Secretary of State George P. Shultz rebuked him in unusually harsh language, saying that he was ''way out of line.'' Mr. Shultz suggested that after eight years as European commander, General Rogers was not competent to discuss the White House's political thinking. The general was 65, and the administration tried to ease him out gracefully, but General Rogers made it clear in testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee that he was being ousted. ''I'm being retired,'' he said. ''I decided many years ago that I would serve until I was kicked out, and that time has come.''
 The United States and the Soviet Union signed the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty in December 1987, and the Senate ratified it in May 1988.
 Bernard William Rogers was born in Fairview, Kan., on July 16, 1921. In 1943, he graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point, where he was elected first captain of cadets.
 Business Week reported in 1985 that the Army had kept several promising officers out of combat in World War II, including Bernard Rogers, a new second lieutenant and platoon leader at the time. After the war, he served as chief aide to Gen. Mark W. Clark, commander of American troops in Austria, then spent three years at Oxford studying philosophy, politics and economics as a Rhodes scholar, earning bachelor's and master's degrees.
 In the Korean War, he commanded a battalion. From 1962 to 1966, he was executive officer the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He then became assistant division commander of the First Infantry Division in Vietnam, where he led a heralded counterattack against the Viet Cong and won the Distinguished Service Cross, the second highest decoration in the Army. He also received his first general's star.
 After Vietnam, he was commandant of cadets at West Point before becoming commanding general of the Fifth Infantry Division at Fort Carson, Colo. There, one of his steps to improve morale was to open a coffeehouse with folk singing. He earned his fourth star in 1974, and quickly moved up the Army's hierarchy to become chief of staff in 1976.
 In 1979, President Jimmy Carter appointed him as commander of American forces in Europe. NATO simultaneously named him its supreme commander. In that role, he commanded planes that bombed Libya in 1984. After a truck bomb killed 241 Americans in Lebanon in 1983, General Rogers took responsibility because, he said, it happened in a theater he commanded.
 General Rogers, who lived in McLean, Va., is survived by his wife of almost 64 years, the former Ann Ellen Jones; a son, Col. Michael W., of Manassas, Va., who is retired from the Army; two daughters, Diane Opperman of Arlington, Va., and Susan Kroetch of Alexandria, Va.; a sister; a brother; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
 In 1976, General Rogers was embarrassed by news reports that he had sent his golf shoes from Georgia to Kansas on an otherwise empty military plane. He transferred the underlings he said were responsible, and paid the $931.60 cost of the flight.
 A happier time came two years later, at the Army-Navy football game in Philadelphia, where he led troops in cheers. The Washington Post reported that he often rose from his seat, put two fingers in his mouth, and horse-whistled for a full 30 seconds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Bernard W. Rogers (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS, 1985) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); KOREAN WAR (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (56%)

CATEGORY: Military

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



456 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Promise to Help Children

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DEUTSCH

 BODY:
J. MICHAEL KELLEY handles philanthropy for the huge trucker YRC Worldwide, and he has been fielding lots of calls from employees these days. ''They're all asking, Can't we do more to shield children of families who are caught up in this financial storm?'' he said.
 In a recessionary economy, writing more checks is often not an option. And YRC already charges nothing to ship items that others donate to child service organizations. 
 So Mr. Kelley, whose official title is chief sustainability officer, thought creatively. He turned YRC trucks into what he called ''mobile billboards for charity,'' festooned with decals that promote specific child-oriented programs. YRC trucks in Kansas City, Mo., for example, have decals promoting Back Snack, a local program that gives poor children snack-filled backpacks on Fridays to tide them over to school lunch on Mondays. ''In-kind giving is our sweet spot when it comes to helping families and children,'' Mr. Kelley said, using the common term for donations of products or services. 
 That concept is echoing through corporate America as companies anticipate an onslaught of pleas from child services groups. Few of those groups have run out of money, but most see ominous signs. 
 They are already lobbying legislators and forming contingency plans in case those calls do no good. Last month, for example, several New York-based child services groups and the United Federation of Teachers formed a coalition to support important programs through tough times. 
 ''We know that during an economic downturn the first things government cuts are programs that support and protect the interests of children,'' said Jennifer March-Joly, executive director of the Citizens' Committee for Children, a New York City organization that is in the coalition. 
 Will corporations pick up at least some of the slack? One thing already seems clear: if they do, it will not be with cash but with increased in-kind giving. 
 Examples are already easy to find. Since 2005, Mattel has donated 2 percent of pretax profits -- some in cash, most in toys -- to children's hospitals and other programs, said Deidre S. Lind, executive director of its philanthropy programs. 
 Ms. Lind has not yet done her budget for 2009, but she said she knew ''where the economy is headed.'' So she is sending more Mattel employees to schools to play with children, and is encouraging its toy designers to hold art classes at children's hospitals. 
 In June, Mattel asked employees to give $30 each to sponsor at-risk children overseas. Mattel's top executives then contributed money to match the donations, producing more than $100,000, Ms. Lind said. ''We have products, we have employees, we have creative capital,'' she said. ''Even if we're not a charity's biggest funder, we can be a true partner at a time of crisis.''
 That same attitude pervades the medical technology company BD, or Becton, Dickinson. For several years, its annual philanthropic budget was about $3.5 million in cash and about $4.5 million in syringes, alcohol swabs and other products.
 BD is unlikely to increase its cash donations next year, said Jennifer Farrington, director of social investing, but it expects to donate more products. And it plans to send more employees to help child-relief organizations in Ghana and other hard-pressed areas. ''We can provide skill sets that charities might otherwise have to purchase,'' she said. 
 Child services organizations welcome such in-kind donations, but most are planning to trim expenses, too.
 Save the Children, for one, raised $126 million this year, more than enough to finance its programs, but it also imposed a hiring freeze. ''I imagine we'll see a downturn in the number and size of gifts as a result of the economy,'' said Anne-Marie Grey, vice president of professional development. ''I don't anticipate that any corporations or foundations won't honor commitments they've already made, but it may be significantly tougher to attract new donors.''
 Ms. March-Joly's group may grapple with the loss of an old one. For the last few years, the Lehman Foundation, financed by the investment company Lehman Brothers, has paid for most of the promotion for Works on Paper, a fund-raising art auction the Citizens' Committee for Children holds every February.
 Ms. March-Joly said she was optimistic that the foundation's support would continue, despite Lehman Brothers' collapse in September. But she is not counting on it -- and is looking for ways to trim her budget. ''Maybe we don't need a glossy publication, and maybe our board and members can make phone calls or do electronic advocacy instead of paying to send our staff on lots of trips to Albany,'' she said.
 Children's hospitals face a different set of problems. Few rely on donations for day-to-day operations, but the average children's hospital gets half its revenue from Medicaid reimbursements. 
 Lawrence McAndrews, president of the National Association of Children's Hospitals and Related Institutions, said, ''A principal concern is that states will be unable to pay for services rendered under Medicaid.'' 
 Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital in Cleveland is not wanting for cash, but economic uncertainty has led it to re-evaluate ''short-term fund-raising strategies,'' said Ryan R. Cross, vice president for development.
 He has developed a three-pronged plan: to steward existing donors by bringing them in for tours and showing them how their money is used; to ask foundations, required by law to give out a specific percentage of their endowment each year, to help finance community-based programs like those training teenagers to be baby sitters; and to ask potential donors who may be cash-strapped to consider a step like donating appreciated stock.
 Corporate executives, meanwhile, are doing fund-raising of their own, appealing to their colleagues' pragmatic sides, as well as their sense of philanthropy. 
 On Sept. 24, the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy, which includes well-known New York businesspeople like Peter L. Malkin, Sanford I. Weill and John C. Whitehead, wrote to members urging businesses to continue charitable giving. 
 Corporate philanthropy has moved ''from a 'nice to do' to an essential business operation,'' wrote the committee's chairman, Harold McGraw III, in part because employees, customers and investors demand it. 
 The letter pre-empted any cries of economic woe from members and suggested that even the most financially pressed corporations could donate products or services, provide office space and offer sabbaticals to employees who could work with nonprofits. 
 Charles H. Moore, the committee's executive director, said he expected a positive response from members. And he predicted that child services organizations would be primary beneficiaries. 
 ''Companies understand that investing in children is investing in the future, of their company and of society,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN PERSON: Nikki Simons, with Nana Manford, 8, volunteers with her Mattel co-workers at a school in Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JILL CONNELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MATCHING GIFTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RECESSION (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); LOBBYING (65%); TOYS & GAMES (61%)

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (66%); YRC WORLDWIDE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%)

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (66%); YRCW (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (66%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (66%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (58%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



457 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Fancy Sheets, and Now Wiis

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Hotels are under such pressure to keep up with their gadget-obsessed guests that they are working with technology companies to regain their edge.
 Sheraton teamed with Microsoft to create its new Link@Sheraton lounges, as part of an overhaul of the brand that includes carving out spaces in lobbies where guests can use public computers to check their e-mail, print boarding passes and record video greetings to send to family and friends.
 Westin struck a deal with Nintendo to outfit some of its fitness centers with Wii consoles and games like Wii Fit, a game that uses a balance board to guide players through exercises and yoga poses. 
 Even smaller brands are turning to technology leaders to equip their public spaces and guestrooms with the latest electronics. The Gansevoort Hotel Group is working with Sony to develop a lounge at its new Gansevoort South property in Miami Beach. The goal is to relocate the traditional business center to a more social setting near the lobby. The lounge will have Sony computers and PlayStation 3 game consoles as well as digital book readers and cameras.
 ''What we're trying to do is give people the chance to experience firsthand the latest in technology,'' said Elon Kenchington, Gansevoort's chief operating officer, explaining that choosing the right technology has become as critical as other elements of a hotel's design. 
 ''It's an integral part of not only the success of an operation, but also what makes one brand better than another or more interesting to travelers than other brands,'' he said.
 Establishing a business relationship with a technology company also makes it easier for hotels to keep up with new products and trends. ''One of the challenges for hotels is that you buy equipment that everyone wants today, but within 18 months, it's not considered unique,'' Mr. Kenchington said.
 By meeting regularly with Sony, he said, ''We already have those products within our business model, so we're not waiting for them or being asked why don't we have them.''
 Technology companies, in turn, have a chance to show off their wares to a desirable demographic. ''The same guests that walk through the hotel lobby are the same consumers Microsoft targets,'' said Sandra Andrews, hospitality industry solutions director for Microsoft.
 In addition to running Windows software, the PCs in Sheraton's lounges have Web cameras and a Microsoft application that walks guests through recording and sending a video clip. The goal is to encourage people to try a task they may have found too daunting to explore on their own: for example, having guests use Web cameras to say good night to their kids, Ms. Andrews said.
 Yet one challenge for hotels is making sure guests are comfortable using the technology and not being forced to wrestle with products that are too complex. That is particularly the case with guestroom amenities, because customers staying for just a night or two do not have the time, or the patience, to master a complicated process to accomplish a generally simple task like finding a television channel.
 ''If you need your neighbor's teenage kid to help you figure out how to use something,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst with Forrester Research, ''it's probably too complex for a hotel to implement.''
 That is why the James hotel in Chicago has been spending the last few months testing technology made by Control4, known for its home automation systems. On trial in one guestroom, the system allows guests to operate the lights, the blinds, the thermostat and the television using one remote. It can even be used to set a more customized wake-up experience, in which, for example, the TV turns on and gradually increases in volume.
 ''Everything slowly comes to life in the room,'' said Patrick Hatton, general manager of the James, adding that the hotel was taking time to receive feedback on the Control4 technology to make sure the innovations did not create headaches. ''The most important thing for us is to make sure the technology is easy to use.'' 
 Another company working with Control4 is the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, which plans to use the system to create a welcome experience at its Las Vegas property, scheduled to open in late 2009. Guests arriving in their room after checking in will be greeted by the drapes opening, the lights automatically turning on and the television displaying a customized message with the guest's name.
 ''When you open the door, that's what will welcome you instead of a dark room where you're fumbling for a light switch,'' said Monika Nerger, Mandarin's vice president of technology for the Americas.
 She said, though, that the main technology challenge for hotels was increasing their Internet bandwidth to keep up with guests doing more file-intensive activities online. The Las Vegas hotel will offer 400 megabytes of bandwidth, more than double the 160 megabytes at the new Mandarin Oriental in Boston. 
 Given the economic climate, Mr. Harteveldt cautioned that hotels ought to focus on Internet access and other essential technologies that either help justify a higher room rate or attract more guests.
 ''Hotels have to make sure they address the basics before they think about the fanciful,'' he said. ''This is not a time for the fanciful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Link@Sheraton lounge in a hotel in Phoenix. Sheraton teamed with Microsoft to stay up to date. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KADLUBOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); LODGING (79%); HOTEL CHAINS (79%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (79%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); YOGA (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (65%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); NINTENDO CO LTD (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 7974 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



458 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: From Debris Pile To New Homes

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: SECAUCUS, N.J. 

 BODY:
 SOMETIMES one person's trash becomes another person's treasure -- even when they are separated by 1,300 miles.
 That was certainly the case with the 60 tons of high-end tile that last month ended a three-year odyssey by traveling from this gritty industrial hub west of New York City to New Orleans, where residents will use them to rebuild homes destroyed by Hurricane Katrina.
 The journey of the tiles was made possible through persistence, generosity and good timing, and was an example of how building-supply companies, environmental groups and community activists can work together. 
 Their cooperation may also provide a template for ways to get building materials destined for the dump to people in need, and may prove timely for suppliers trying to shed excess inventory in a slowing construction market.
 The trek to New Orleans began by chance at a Christmas party in 2005. Nancy Epstein, the chief executive of Artistic Tile, with seven stores and a distribution center in Secaucus, met Nancy Biberman, the president of the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit group known as Whedco that was building affordable housing in the South Bronx.
 Ms. Epstein offered to donate 120 tons of older and discontinued ceramic, concrete and porcelain tiles to Ms. Biberman for her 128 apartments. Unlike many commercial developers, Ms. Biberman did not need large quantities of similar tiles and could use Artistic's variety of small lots. Artistic, meanwhile, could reduce its inventory taxes and avoid paying to dispose of the tiles.
 ''There is a cost to dumping it, and moving it around the warehouse has a cost, too, because it keeps you from putting in new product,'' Ms. Epstein said. ''There is a pride of ownership when the apartments are done nicely, so we donate whatever we can.''
 Yet after Whedco placed tiles in bathrooms, kitchens and common areas this summer, 60 tons -- worth about $250,000 -- remained unused. Much of it sat outside Artistic's warehouse on pallets, some in open boxes that exposed ceramic moldings, finished crowns and tiles costing up to $30 each. Another load sat so long in a trailer nearby that its legs had sunk into the asphalt.
 Serendipity ensued in the form of Paul Eisemann, who refurbishes brownstones in Brooklyn and who volunteers in New Orleans, where he teaches home-building skills. With the hurricane debris largely cleared and the frames and walls of new homes going up, Mr. Eisemann and community leaders in New Orleans turned to outfitting bathrooms, kitchens and other rooms.
 Back in Brooklyn, Mr. Eisemann had been speaking to Jon Cramer, an energy efficiency consultant, about how to get donated construction materials directly to communities along the Gulf Coast. Many nonprofit groups, like Habitat for Humanity's ReStores, collect construction materials, but then resell them in stores to raise money.
 ''In New York, there's so much overbuilding,'' Mr. Eisemann said. ''For the next three to five years, there's going to be excess building materials that sometimes are more expensive to throw away than to donate.''
 Their task was daunting. In New York, few warehouses had the space to store materials before they were shipped. Transportation costs were skyrocketing. They also had to verify that recipients would use the materials properly and promptly.
 But Mr. Cramer persevered. He spoke to Justin Green, who runs Build It Green! NYC, a nonprofit group that sells salvaged construction materials. Mr. Green's warehouse in Astoria, Queens, was packed, so he had to turn down an offer of tile from Whedco, which wanted to donate what remained from its construction.
 Mr. Cramer and Mr. Eisemann seized the chance to put their plan to work. They learned from Artistic that more tile -- enough to fill at least four tractor-trailers -- was sitting in Secaucus, too.
 Mr. Eisemann contacted Mary Croom-Fontenot, executive director of All Congregations Together, an alliance of religious groups in New Orleans that has rebuilt 142 homes with volunteer labor and donations. Her group, along with Lowernine.org, another nonprofit group in New Orleans focused on rebuilding homes, was excited about the prospect of getting high-quality tile.
 ''Once people get the walls done and the electrical and plumbing, many run out of money for the flooring, the bathrooms,'' she said. ''So our hope is to help them with one more piece, to make their house a home with this grade-A, top-of-the-line tile.''
 Still, the tiles were two days' drive from their ultimate home. So Mr. Eisemann called the Rev. Scott Sammler-Michael, minister of the Accotink Unitarian Universalist Church in Burke, Va., where he runs the TUUL-Belt Ministry, a volunteer program.
 Mr. Sammler-Michael had taken some congregants to New Orleans to help in the rebuilding effort. His group offered $3,000 to pay for one tractor-trailer load of tile to be shipped to Louisiana. Before he could write a check, a New Jersey trucking company that did not want its name publicized agreed to haul the first load without charge. Two trailers picked up the tile in October.
 To ready the tiles for shipping, three workers at Artistic's distribution center spent three days repacking the first 47,600 pounds of tile. The tiles were sorted, crated and shrink-wrapped and filled a couple of dozen pallets. ''We want to make sure it goes to a good place,'' said Gerard Esmail, the operations manager of Artistic's warehouse.
 Mr. Eisemann and Mr. Cramer are now focused on making sure the remaining two-thirds of the tiles end up in New Orleans.
 ''It seems like it's been a really long haul, making hundreds of phone calls and e-mails and putting details together,'' Mr. Eisemann said. ''But big dreams cost the same amount of money as small ones, so dream big.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TEAM EFFORT: From left, Paul Eisemann, a contractor
Jon Cramer, an energy efficiency consultant
Debbie Grunbaum of Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation
 and Gerard Esmail of Artistic Tile have collaborated to get leftover building materials to projects where they can be used instead of discarded.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); HURRICANES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); CHRISTMAS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



459 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Almost Entire Town Is Drowning In Debt as Home Values Plunge

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN HOUSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
This town, 59 feet above sea level, is the most underwater community in America.
 Because of plunging home values, almost 90 percent of homeowners here owe more on their mortgages than their houses are worth, according to figures released Monday. That is the highest percentage in the country. The average homeowner in Mountain House is ''underwater,'' as it is known, by $122,000.
 A visit to the area over the last couple of days shows how the nationwide housing crisis is contributing to a broad slowdown of the American economy, as families who feel burdened by high mortgages are pulling back on their spending.
 Jerry Martinez, a general contractor, and his wife, Marcie, an accounts clerk, are among the struggling owners in Mountain House. Burdened with credit card debt and a house losing value by the day, they are learning the necessity of self-denial for themselves and their three children. 
 No more family bowling night. No more dinners at Chili's or Applebee's. No more going to the movies. 
 ''We make decent money, but it takes a tremendous amount to pay the mortgage,'' Mr. Martinez, 33, said. 
 First American CoreLogic, a real estate data company, has calculated that 7.6 million properties in the country were underwater as of Sept. 30, while another 2.1 million were in striking distance. That is nearly a quarter of all homes with mortgages. The 20 hardest-hit ZIP codes are all in four states: California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona.
 ''Most people pay very little attention to what their equity stake is if they can make the mortgage,'' said First American's chief economist, Mark Fleming. ''They think it's a bummer if the value has gone down, but they are rooted in their house.''
 And yet the magnitude of the current declines has little precedent. ''When my house is valued at 50 percent less than it was, does this begin to challenge the way I'm going to behave?'' he said.
 Mountain House, a planned community set among the fields and pastures of the Central Valley about 60 miles east of San Francisco, provides a discomfiting answer.
 The cutbacks by the Martinezes and their neighbors are reflected in a modest strip of about a dozen stores in nearby Tracy. Three are empty while a fourth has only a temporary tenant. Some of those that remain say they are just hanging on.
 ''Before summer, things were O.K. Not now,'' said My Phan of Hailey Nails and Spa. ''Customers say they cannot afford to do their nails.'' She estimated her business had fallen by half.
 At Cribs, Kids and Teens, Jason Heinemann says his business is also down 50 percent. He opened the store in early 2006; last month was his worst ever. ''Grandparents are big buyers of kids' furniture, but when their 401(k)'s are dropping $10,000 and $20,000 a week, they don't come in,'' he said.
 Mr. Heinemann laid off his one employee, a contribution to an unemployment rate in San Joaquin County that has surpassed 10 percent. He dropped his advertising in the local newspaper and luxury magazines.
 As Mr. Heinemann's sales sink, he is tightening his own belt. ''I used to be a big spender,'' he said. ''We're setting a budget for Christmas.'' 
 In the window of another tenant, Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, a placard shows two happy homeowners holding a sign saying, ''Someday we'll owe a lot less than we thought.''
 Someday, maybe, but not now. First American has been refining its figures on underwater mortgages, formally known as negative equity. The data company evaluated 42 million residential properties with mortgages. (Though Maine, Mississippi, North Dakota, South Dakota, Vermont, West Virginia and Wyoming were excluded because of insufficient data, none of those states have been central to the mortgage crisis.) A computer model was used to calculate current values, using comparable sales. More than 10 million homes do not have mortgages.
 The figures rank the 20 ZIP codes that are furthest underwater. The 95391 ZIP code, which includes all of Mountain House and some properties outside it, has the unwelcome distinction of being first in the country.
 Out of 1,856 mortgages in the ZIP code, First American calculates that nearly 90 percent are underwater. Only 209 owners owe less on their mortgages than the homes are worth. 
 The first homes in Mountain House were sold in 2003, just as the real estate boom began to go into overdrive. Its relative proximity to San Francisco drew many who traded a longer commuting trip for a bigger place.
 The Martinezes bought their house in early 2005 for $630,000. It is now worth about $420,000. They have an interest-only mortgage, a popular loan during the boom that allows owners to forgo principal payments for a time. 
 But these loans eventually become unmanageable. In 2015, Mr. Martinez said, his monthly payments will be $12,000 a month. He laughed and shook his head at the absurdity of it.
 They fear the future, so they stay home. They rent movies. They play board games. (But not Monopoly -- with its real estate theme, it reminds them too much of real life.) 
 ''It's a vicious circle,'' Mr. Martinez said. The economy is faltering because he and millions of others are not spending. This killed his career in home remodeling this year, and threatens his current work as a contractor on commercial properties.
 For the moment, the family is just trying to hold on. But Mr. Martinez acknowledges that it has entered his mind to turn his house back over to the bank. ''By next June, if things aren't better, I'm walking,'' Mr. Martinez said. 
 Many in Mountain House have already taken that option. Banks took over 101 properties in the 95391 ZIP code in the third quarter, according to DataQuick Information Systems.
 Even relatively recent arrivals are feeling a pinch.
 Kenny Rogers, a data security specialist, moved into Mountain House last year, buying a foreclosed property on Prosperity Street for $380,000. But the decline in values has been so fierce that he too is underwater. 
 He has cut his DVD buying from 50 a month to perhaps one, and is waiting until the Christmas sales to buy a high-definition television. He does not indulge much anymore in his hobbies of scuba diving and flying. ''Best to wait for a better price, or do without,'' Mr. Rogers, 52, said. 
 People deciding to do without are hurting a second mall close to Mountain House. There is a shuttered Linens 'n Things, part of a chain that went bankrupt. Another empty storefront used to be a Fashion Bug. Soccer World could not make it. Shoe Pavilion is festooned with going-out-of-business signs. 
 Chris and Janet Ackerson can survey this carnage from their own store with a certain equanimity. Their business, a member of the Vino 100 chain of wine outlets, is doing well. 
 The store opened at the beginning of the year, so long-term trends are not clear. But sales did not plunge in the last few months as they did for so many other retailers. Four more people joined the store's wine club last weekend.
 ''My house is underwater, so I'm not doing too much impulse shopping or any renovation. But I'm not cutting back on this,'' said Ray Lopez, a database administrator, as he placed a $24 petite sirah on the counter. ''Life's too short.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One homeowner bought a foreclosed property on Prosperity Street in Mountain House, Calif.
 This week, a real estate office in Tracy, Calif., near Mountain House, was advertising foreclosure sales. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) CHARTS and MAPS: Where Homes Are Worth Less Than the Mortgage: While home values have declined across the country, in some places the declines are so sharp that people owe more on their mortgages than their houses are worth. Of the 20 ZIP codes where this condition, called negative equity, is worst, 13 are concentrated in just three counties. (Source: First American CoreLogic)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (55%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



460 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Any Recruiting Questions? Ask a Soldier in Iraq

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR the last two years, the Army has presented itself to potential recruits as the way to become ''Army strong.'' Beginning on Tuesday, Veterans Day, the Army will seek to make its pitch stronger by making the campaign more relevant to the desired audience of Americans ages 17 to 24.
 One new feature on a redesigned version of the Army Web site (goarmy.com) called ''Straight From Iraq'' states, ''Now you can find out what it's really like to be deployed in the Middle East from the men and women stationed there.'' 
 ''Soldiers are ready to take your questions,'' says a section of the site devoted to a webcast series. The feature represents the first time that visitors can ask questions of soldiers deployed overseas as well as the first time the Iraq war has been referred to so directly and prominently on the Web site.
 The goal is to provide those considering the Army -- along with parents and others who influence their decisions -- with ''verifiable information about what being a soldier is really like, what combat is really like,'' said Lt. Gen. Benjamin C. Freakley, commanding general of the Army Accessions Command in Fort Monroe, Va., which is overseeing recruitment. 
 The changes in the ''Army strong'' campaign place more emphasis on the Internet, event marketing and other methods that connect with young Americans on a closer, more personal level. 
 To help pay for the new media features, cutbacks are being made in areas like the Army's sponsorships of professional rodeos.
 The changes include an additional theme for the campaign, ''Strength like no other,'' which will appear along with ''Army strong''; a focus on the skills that recruits can learn in the Army, to make a stronger case about how serving can bring personal and career success later in life; and new information about becoming an officer.
 ''The campaign has been successful conveying the benefits of 'Army strong,' the physical, emotional and mental benefits,'' said Ed Walters, chief marketing officer for the Army at the Pentagon.
 ''We wanted to more clearly articulate that,'' he added, through efforts like sharing with civilians the video clips of ''real soldiers' stories.''
 The ''Army strong'' campaign is produced by nine agencies, eight of them part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The Army ad budget from 2006 through 2011 is estimated at $1.35 billion.
 The Army has met its recruiting goals for the first two fiscal years during which the ''Army strong'' campaign has appeared. Critics of the military's practices contend that bonuses being awarded to recruits as well as less stringent entry standards have also helped meet the goals.
 ''We love the 'Army strong' campaign because it resonates with youth,'' General Freakley said, and it ''says in a nutshell who our soldiers are, that it is a strength they get by serving.''
 ''This is a progression, an evolution,'' he added, referring to the new phase of the campaign.
 In addition to the new content on goarmy.com, there will be new TV commercials, meant to help drive traffic to the Web site. The first ones compare the Army to a company, a team and a school by showing young men and women in settings like an office building, a gym and a campus. The scenes shift into scenes of soldiers performing military tasks like marching and saluting the flag.
 In the gym commercial, young athletes are seen working out, then stacking sandbags. ''There is a team like no other team in the world,'' says the narrator, the actor Gary Sinise, who took over the narration work for the campaign last year from the actor Josh Charles. 
 ''When they raise their flag in victory, you will know what these men and women are fighting for,'' Mr. Sinise says, ''and you will feel fortunate to be counted among them.''
 In the office commercial, young workers in business attire suddenly start climbing walls. ''This company is filled with dreamers,'' Mr. Sinise says, ''but they also have courage, strength and honor, and when they leave this company it will be with a thousand opportunities and the respect of millions.'' 
 The intent is ''to show the Army in a way you haven't thought about it,'' said Craig Markus, executive creative director at McCann Erickson Worldwide in New York, one of the McCann Worldgroup agencies working on the campaign.
 ''Obviously, the buzzword right now is 'relevance,' '' he added, ''and we're trying to talk to people in a way that's relevant to them at the moment.''
 Coincidentally, it turns out the campaign was developed months before the start of the steep economic downturn. The growing unemployment rate could benefit the Army because young men and women may enlist rather than search fruitlessly for work.
 ''History will tell you that's true,'' Mr. Markus said, ''but I'm not going to predict what may happen.''
 The other McCann Worldgroup agencies working on the campaign are: Casanova Pendrill, for ads aimed at Hispanics; the IW Group, for ads aimed at Asian-Americans; Momentum, for event marketing and sponsorships; MRM Worldwide, for the Web site, digital marketing and direct marketing; NAS Recruitment, for medical recruiting; Universal McCann, for media planning and buying; and Weber Shandwick, for public relations.
 Another agency, Carol H. Williams Advertising, is creating ads aimed at African-American recruits.
 Other changes the Army is making include reworking the content of the Virtual Army Experience, a traveling interactive exhibit with games and other displays that is intended for an audience as young as 13. There have been complaints that the exhibit is inappropriate because it makes combat seem to be fun.
 ''If we show the Army fighting, people say it's violent,'' General Freakley said. ''If we don't, people say it's not truthful.''
 The new content for the exhibit will concentrate on the peaceful purposes the Army can serve, he added, like providing humanitarian aid. 
 The new elements of the ''Army strong'' campaign aimed at so-called influencers like parents are scheduled to start in January. Such ads have been part of the campaign since it began in 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Army's Web site for potential enlistees, goarmy.com, will feature a series of webcasts about soldiers deployed in Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); WEB SITES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); WEBCASTS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EVENT MARKETING (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (64%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (82%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (61%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



461 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: A Matchmaker Finds Patrons for Artists' Work

BYLINE: By JORI FINKEL

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 WHEN ''Triade,'' a dance choreographed by Benjamin Millepied, had its premiere at the Paris Opera in September, among the many fans in the audience was Gillian Early. 
 But unlike most fans, Ms. Early exchanged text messages with Mr. Millepied when he was backstage to let him know that she and her daughter had arrived from Los Angeles. Later that week she enjoyed some time with Mr. Millepied: getting a private tour of the opera house, the Palais Garnier, from dressing rooms to rooftop; and joining him for dinner. The two are becoming, they both say, great friends. 
 They also represent a small success story for a new arts fellowship program, United States Artists, a nonprofit group in Los Angeles that has developed a knack for bringing patrons and artists together. Ms. Early discovered Mr. Millepied's work just over a year ago, not onstage but in the Los Angeles boardroom of United States Artists, where she agreed to provide a $50,000 fellowship for him. 
 Such relationships are ''bridge builders,'' said Katharine DeShaw, executive director of United States Artists. ''It's a great thing for artists to find someone who cares deeply about the arts, who might introduce them to others who care deeply about arts, who might support other projects of theirs, who could really open doors.'' 
 Founded in 2005, United States Artists drew roughly $15 million in seed money from the Ford Foundation, $3 million from the Rockefeller Foundation and $1 million each from the Prudential and Rasmuson Foundations. Each year since, the group has given $50,000 each to a total of 50 artists from eight fields: architecture and design; crafts; dance; literature; film, radio and television; music; theater; and visual arts. 
 To qualify for a fellowship, artists are nominated by a group of professionals selected by the nonprofit organization; each chosen artist is then invited to submit an application and work samples; finalists are picked by a panel of professional artists and experts and announced at a ceremony every November (the list of finalists for this year was released Monday).
 So far, United States Artists has won recognition as one of the few new sources of artists' grants at a time when federal financing from agencies like the National Endowment for the Arts has diminished. ''The greatest loss of the cultural wars of the 1980s is that the N.E.A. no longer gives individual artists grants,'' said Hugh Davies, director of the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego. ''So the idea of giving grants to individual artists, no strings attached, is a terribly important thing.'' 
 United States Artists' Fellowships have been compared with the MacArthur Foundation's ''genius'' awards, which this year gave 25 artists $500,000 each, and the Guggenheim Fellowships, which this year gave out 190 grants in the United States and Canada, with an average award of $43,200. But what sets these fellowships apart from these larger, more established award programs is the way the group plays matchmaker between donors and artists. ''Because of the generosity of our founders,'' Ms. DeShaw said, ''I can go to individuals and say that 100 percent of your money will go straight to the artists -- something few institutions can say.'' 
 Ms. DeShaw said she was ''on target for 2008 and closed $450,000 in donations in two weeks in October.'' Whether she can prove as persuasive during a lengthy recession remains to be seen.
 And donors are, more or less, able to direct their financing. 
 Ms. Early, who joined the group's board last year, chose to put her money into dance, a longtime interest. When she lived in Las Vegas -- her father is Steve Wynn, the billionaire casino entrepreneur -- she was on the board of the Nevada Ballet Theater.
 She and Mr. Millepied, who is a principal dancer with the New York City Ballet as well as a choreographer, met in the fall of 2007. ''She knew more about me than I knew about her, that's for sure,'' he said. ''But it was great to meet someone who had not only done something very generous but was also a dance lover who knew what she was talking about. I could tell right then: She was the real thing.''
 Early on, the financier Eli Broad specified that his money be given each year to five Southern California visual artists, and as a result he has met several new artists not in his collection, like Sam Durant and Anna Sew Hoy. And Fred and Eve Simon, of the Simon family behind Omaha Steaks, opted to support the musicians Chris Jonas and Molly Sturges of Santa Fe, N.M., where Mr. Simons sits on the board of the Santa Fe Opera.
 Knowing that your money goes directly to an artist is a ''meaningful and wonderful'' selling point, said Marion Stroud, founder of the Fabric Workshop and Museum in Philadelphia. Last year Ms. Stroud gave a $50,000 fellowship to Tommy Joseph of Sitka, Alaska, a sculptor best known for carving totem poles. 
 Since then, Ms. Stroud, whose nickname is Kippy, has invited Mr. Joseph to stay in one of the cabins at Kamp Kippy, in Mount Desert Island, Me., an informal and sprawling artists' retreat she founded in 1993. She also offered Mr. Joseph a 2009 residency at the Fabric Workshop to complete a long-term project, recreating the battle dress, arms and armor of warriors from the Tlingit tribe of Native Americans. 
 Susan and Pat Stevens of Wayzata, Minn., decided to support a musician, recalling how their son, a would-be jazz pianist, struggled to start his career before moving on to other things. ''It was a stretch for us financially,'' said Ms. Stevens, a management consultant who was involved in the founding of United States Artists. ''But I thought if we could do this over a few years, it would be great.'' 
 Their $50,000 went to Lourdes Perez, an Arizona-based singer-songwriter who has kept in touch with the Stevenses by e-mail since meeting them in New York two years ago. 
 As for Ms. Early, she stayed in contact with Mr. Millepied and saw him on occasion, for instance, taking her 9-year-old daughter to see him dance in New York. In fact, her daughter's 10th birthday inspired her to make the trip to Paris. ''She's been asking to go to Paris since she was 6,'' said Ms. Early, who said her daughter had been dancing almost as long as she had been walking. ''I promised she could do it when she was 10 -- and she didn't forget.''
 Over dinner with Mr. Millepied in Paris, Ms. Early offered her impression of his dance ''Triade,'' which featured two male and two female dancers engaging and disentangling from moments of intimacy. ''I felt it was about where to draw the line when you're in a committed relationship and attracted to someone else -- the sort of boundarylessness of human passion,'' she said. ''Benjamin said he was thinking about these things, too.''
 That chance to give feedback is important to her, Ms. Early said. ''It's about closing a loop,'' she explained. ''When someone really touches you, moves you deeply, you can sit with that. But you can also go back to the person who gave you that gift.''
 Not surprisingly, many artists are enthusiastic about the United States Artists program. 
 ''I know what it's like to be a starving artist and have skinny times,'' said Mr. Joseph, the sculptor. ''Having someone interested in my work and giving me a boost like this is really huge.'' 
 In a few cases, the artists have used the grants to become donors themselves. Ms. Perez provided nearly $10,000 to help a theater artist, a writer and another musician. ''One was about to become homeless, and the other two were facing catastrophic health issues,'' she said. ''I wanted their vision of the work to continue, so I was able to say, 'I know you are doing incredible work, and money can be difficult to come by sometimes, but here is this pool that we can share in.' '' 
 The writer Helena Maria Viramontes gave Ana Maria Garcia, a filmmaker, money to edit an adaptation of Ms. Viramontes's short story ''Paris Rats in East Los Angeles,'' which had been languishing in production.
 Of the 2006 fellows, Ms. DeShaw said, ''36 percent either gave money to support other artists or art initiatives or volunteered their time, which you could say was in part subsidized by us.'' 
 At a time when arts institutions expect funding cuts and budget crunches, this extended network gives some artists a sense of hope. ''It's like a quiet ripple,'' Ms. Perez said. ''You can't measure that ripple, the impact of the fellowship. That's the magic of it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about United States Artists, a fellowship program that brings artists and patrons together, described incorrectly the recipients of ''genius'' awards from the MacArthur Foundation, with which the fellowship program has been compared. MacArthur awards go to artists, scientists, writers, historians and people in many other disciplines. They do not go only to artists. The article also misstated, in one instance, the surname of a patron who supports several artists. He is Fred Simon, not Simons.
 A picture caption misstated the role of Gillian Early, a patron, in supporting Benjamin Millepied, a choreographer. Ms. Early financed a fellowship for Mr. Millepied. She did not create it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DIRECT ACCESS: Gillian Early created a fellowship to support the work of Benjamin Millepied, a dancer and choreographer. A grant from Susan and Pat Stevens, right, benefits Lourdes Perez, a singer-songwriter.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KADLUBOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); OPERA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); VISUAL ARTS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TEXT MESSAGING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



462 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: In Philadelphia, Grants Nurture New Theater

BYLINE: By JULIA M. KLEIN

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
 WHEN a local theater company asked the Independence Foundation for more operating money, the foundation's president, Susan Sherman, responded with a provocation: ''Let's talk about what you really want to do -- what are you dreaming?''
 In fact, the founders of the Arden Theater Company did have a dream: to create a developmental pipeline for new work. The company had long produced world premieres but had fine-tuned them out of town, without Philadelphia artists and audiences. 
 Ms. Sherman changed that with $240,000 in grants over the last nine years, enabling the Independence Foundation New Play Showcase to pay for local workshops, readings and extra rehearsal time for 17 works.
 The showcase ''created a community around the creation of new work,'' said Terrence J. Nolen, the Arden's producing artistic director. In recent years, grants from the Independence Foundation, the Pew Charitable Trusts and other foundations have helped make Philadelphia increasingly receptive to new plays and emerging artists. 
 The targeted giving became ''a kind of risk capital that isn't readily available in other places,'' said Gregory T. Rowe, Pew's director of cultural initiatives and deputy director of its Philadelphia program. And theater professionals around the country have noticed.
 ''Word has gotten out that Philadelphia is quite hot in terms of both the work and the support for the work,'' said Todd London, artistic director of New Dramatists, a New York organization that offers seven-year residencies to promising playwrights. Mr. London is completing a national study of the economics of playwriting for the Theater Development Fund, which runs New York's TKTS discount ticket booths. 
 In 2006, David Dower, associate artistic director of Arena Stage in Washington, conducted an Andrew W. Mellon Foundation study of 15 theater communities and found that Philadelphia stood out for ''the number of different philanthropic agencies that were focused on individual artists.'' Targeted philanthropy also supports theatrical innovation in Minneapolis, San Francisco and other cities.
 ''Minneapolis and Philadelphia have some things in common in that we have incredible philanthropic funding for the arts,'' said Polly Carl, producing artistic director of the Playwrights' Center in Minneapolis, which uses foundation grants to pay for the development and performance of new plays. ''I think the Philadelphia scene has gotten more exciting'' over the last decade, she said. ''And I'm hearing of more writers coming out of Philadelphia.'' 
 Mr. Rowe, who before he joined Pew was managing director of People's Light and Theater Company in Malvern, Pa., remembers Philadelphia in the 1980s as culturally conservative. Theaters ''feared they couldn't do new plays because audiences didn't know the titles,'' he said. Now, he said, ''there's hardly a theater company in town that doesn't produce new plays. There's apparently a really strong market for it.'' 
 Mr. Rowe and Pew's Philadelphia Theater Initiative, begun in 1995, have played a role in that change. The initiative pays for theater professionals to travel across the United States and to Europe, most recently to the Dublin Theater Festival, in search of ideas and material. It has poured $7.8 million into projects by individual artists and productions of unusual scope or ambition, including new plays. 
 The focus is on ''work that's risky, adventurous,'' said Fran Kumin, the initiative's director. 
 When the Arden's new play project was approved, Mr. Nolen called Michael Ogborn, a composer who was working on ''Baby Case,'' about the Lindbergh kidnapping. With $50,000 in Independence Foundation grants, the Arden sponsored workshops and readings to refine the piece.
 ''Ultimately, those workshops created tremendous buzz around 'Baby Case,' '' Mr. Nolen said.
 In 2001, the show became the Arden's first major world premiere musical, and later it won four Barrymore Awards (Philadelphia's equivalent of a Tony). 
 The Arden's 2009 world premieres -- ''My Name Is Asher Lev,'' adapted by Aaron Posner from the Chaim Potok novel, and Bruce Graham's ''Something Intangible'' -- both had workshops through the showcase. 
 Mr. Nolen has also commissioned a musical, ''Tulipomania,'' about the 17th-century Dutch tulip boom, from Mr. Ogborn and Michael Hollinger, a New Dramatists alumnus, and plans a workshop for it early next year. 
 Pew's Philadelphia Theater Initiative and the Independence Foundation structure their giving differently. The initiative rewards individual projects; Ms. Sherman said she preferred to back artistic leaders. These include Jennifer Childs, artistic director of 1812 Productions, a small company specializing in comedy. 
 ''We were particularly interested in supporting a woman producer,'' Ms. Sherman said. The foundation has awarded $150,000 over the last six years to the Independence Foundation Series at 1812, which features work by Philadelphia artists. The foundation also sponsors a Barrymore new play award. 
 Both the Pew and Independence foundations offer fellowships to performers and playwrights. Ms. Childs, an actor-director who studied theater in London on an Independence Foundation fellowship, said Philadelphia's theater philanthropy had helped create ''hyphenated artists'' with diverse skills. 
 One is Geoff Sobelle, whose collaboration with Trey Lyford, ''all wear bowlers,'' is the Independence Foundation Series' most successful piece to date. Introduced at the Philadelphia Fringe Festival, it was reworked for 1812 Productions in 2005. 
 Mr. Sobelle said that, besides the 1812 series grant, he had received more than $100,000 in philanthropic support over the last five years, primarily from the Independence Foundation and the Pew Charitable Trusts. 
 He used part of his 2003 Independence Foundation fellowship to hire David Shiner, a clown, as a mentor. As Mr. Sobelle tells it, Mr. Shiner was unimpressed by an early version of ''all wear bowlers.'' 
 Eventually, Mr. Sobelle said, by ''boring down deeper'' and employing slapstick and vaudeville techniques, he and his partner were able to use the show to probe identity. ''All wear bowlers'' became a hit, traveling to New York and across the country, as well as to Britain, Germany, Italy and South Korea. 
 Another major beneficiary of philanthropic largess has been Mr. Hollinger, who used a $9,000 Independence Foundation fellowship to visit the Galapagos Islands to research ''Tooth and Claw,'' a drama about a contemporary Darwinian struggle over the islands' resources.
 ''The play could not have been written without the fellowship,'' Mr. Hollinger said. ''The encounters between the cultures there -- the tourist culture, the fishing culture, the scientific culture -- are so specific and particular, I felt I couldn't do justice to the issues without seeing the terrain and meeting the people.'' 
 That new plays have both artistic and marketing value is ''a lesson that has been learned in this city,'' he said. 
 The InterAct Theater Company, which focuses on plays with social or political themes, is a founding member of the National New Play Network and is planning to commission 20 plays over the next six years. The Philadelphia Live Arts Festival and Philly Fringe nurtures experimental pieces.
 PlayPenn, a professional new-play development organization in Philadelphia, holds annual conferences. In February 2007, the Theater Alliance of Greater Philadelphia presented a Philadelphia New Play Festival, with nine world premieres at area theaters. 
 In 2009, the alliance will sponsor a conference on a new-play development project, said Margie Salvante, its executive director. ''We see that there is capacity; we see that there is support,'' she said. ''What we don't see is a clear pathway for the emergence of new talent. We're looking to help develop that pathway.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PERCHANCE TO DREAM: Susan Sherman, whose Independence Foundation has paid for the local development of new plays.
 TO CREATE: Terrence J. Nolen, left, producing artistic director of the Arden Theater, with the playwright Michael Hollinger.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); WRITERS (86%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



463 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Helping America Keep Its Innovative Edge

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
BY now, a thick pile of recent books and expert reports warns that the United States is losing its innovative edge, and a poorer future for the nation beckons unless the trend is reversed.
 With the American economy in a wrenching downturn, the innovation imperative seems more pressing than ever. Is there a role for foundations in advancing an innovation agenda? And, if so, what?
 Definitions of innovation vary widely, but in the current context a crucial distinction needs to be made between invention and innovation. Invention is coming up with the breakthrough idea, and foundations focused on science and technology typically support those ambitious quests, from H.I.V. vaccines (the Gates Foundation) to hyper-efficient cars (the X Prize Foundation). 
 Innovation is the process that translates knowledge into economic growth and social well-being. Invention is science, innovation is economics.
 In universities, interest in ''innovation economics'' is surging. And foundations, experts say, could help advance innovation research.
 ''Innovation itself is a field in need of innovation,'' said John Kao, a former professor at the Harvard Business School and an innovation consultant to governments and corporations. ''What we really need is more original thinking about how innovation works in society, and that could come from the philanthropic sector as well as universities.''
 Others make grants in the innovation field, but the Kauffman Foundation has made the broadest commitment. Its support and focus in recent years are helping push ''innovation'' from being a vague admonition in policy speeches to the basis for a growing discipline of serious research.
 The Kauffman Foundation was established in 1966 by Ewing Marion Kauffman, a pharmaceutical entrepreneur and owner of the Kansas City Royals. A self-made man, Mr. Kauffman, who died in 1993, wanted his philanthropy to promote entrepreneurial activity and education. 
 The foundation, based in Kansas City, Mo., has assets of $2 billion and still broadly pursues the founder's mission, but it has evolved considerably. In 2002, Carl J. Schramm, an economist and lawyer, became its president.
 At the time, Mr. Schramm recalled, the foundation focused on trying to persuade business schools to begin entrepreneurship programs. Today, by contrast, the foundation is one of the nation's largest private supporters of economic research in universities.
 The climate for innovation, Mr. Schramm said, is vital in determining whether entrepreneurs succeed or fail. ''We try to foster a deeper understanding of the innovation process,'' he said ''and that is our leverage point to help stimulate economic growth, create new jobs and wealth.''
 Soon after he arrived, Mr. Schramm recruited Robert E. Litan, the director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, to head Kauffman's research program. Mr. Litan, who joined in 2003, recalled that his assignment was to expand and improve the foundation's research, and sponsor more work by mainstream economists.
 Recent grants went to Edmund S. Phelps, a professor at Columbia University and winner of the Nobel Prize in Economic Science in 2006, and William Baumol of New York University, a pioneer in applying economic theory to entrepreneurs.
 The Kauffman Foundation often supports data-intensive research. For example, the Kauffman Firm Survey is a study of nearly 5,000 companies that were started in 2004. The survey will follow the fledgling firms over the years, seeking factors of success or failure. Each participant initially answered more than 100 questions.
 The research, Mr. Litan said, is the economic equivalent of the Framingham Heart Study, the landmark health survey begun in 1948 to examine the causes of heart disease. The Kauffman survey data, he noted, has already been used by more than 100 academic researchers.
 Kauffman, along with the National Science Foundation, is building a database that tracks government-sponsored research for science and engineering and links it with company start-ups, patents and other data. One goal of the research is to identify the characteristics of ''star innovators,'' scientists who are most effective in ushering research advances into the marketplace. 
 Kauffman's research into technology transfer from universities suggested that formal programs tended to ignore many inventions and discoveries that could have commercial potential. So the foundation set up a Web site and database, the iBridge Network, where scientists and engineers from 40 universities have posted 3,000 inventions, from software to chemical compounds. ''It's an eBay for ideas,'' Mr. Schramm said.
 Kauffman has also begun a Law, Innovation and Growth program, which will make $10 million in grants over the next five years. The research, Mr. Litan explained, will look at how copyright, patent and other laws affect innovation. In 1960s and 1970s, scholars like Guido Calabresi and Richard Posner made it standard practice to begin looking at legal issues through the lens of formal economic analysis. The Kauffman program, Mr. Litan said, seeks to ''generate and grow a whole new generation of scholars'' who explore the interaction of the law and innovation.
 ''It's a big-think initiative,'' he said. ''That's what foundations can do.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BELIEVER: Carl Schramm, head of the Kauffman Foundation, says the climate for innovation determines whether entrepreneurs succeed or fail.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH MAYS/KAUFFMAN FOUNDATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); JOB CREATION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



464 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: DHL Cuts 9,500 Jobs in U.S., and an Ohio Town Takes the Brunt

BYLINE: By BOB DRIEHAUS; David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Ohio 

 BODY:
When the owner of the big shipping company DHL U.S. Express announced on Monday that it planned to cut 9,500 jobs in the United States, the news hit this town the hardest. 
 Wilmington is home to a sprawling distribution hub, and more than 7,000 jobs will disappear, devastating the local economy.
 ''This is a catastrophic event for the entire region,'' said David L. Raizk, the mayor of Wilmington, a city of about 12,000 just 40 miles north of Cincinnati. He said that 20 percent of the region's businesses depended on the hub and would most likely close. 
 The move was a sharp reversal for Deutsche Post, the German company that owns DHL, which had said that it was planning to maintain its American operations by turning over its domestic air-cargo service to its rival United Parcel Service. 
 The express package business has been suffering under the sharp economic downturn: express shipments in the United States carried by the top three companies fell in the third quarter for the first time since the 2001 recession.
 The company, which cut 5,400 jobs this year at DHL, will discontinue its domestic-only air and ground services in January to focus entirely on its more lucrative international offerings. DHL said it would close its U.S. Express ground hubs and reduce the number of stations to 103, from 412. It said it would retain 3,000 to 4,000 employees to serve its international express customers.
 The deepest cuts will be in Wilmington, where DHL built the hub in 2005 on a former Air Force base with the help of a $400 million state and local incentive package. DHL operates the hub in conjunction with Astar Air Cargo and ABX Air, both of which will most likely cease operations there when DHL leaves.
 Clinton County, where Wilmington is the county seat, is facing a $2 million gap in a $14.5 million budget because of the loss of tax revenue. ''We're going to be taking 2009 needs and trying to fund them with 2005-level revenues,'' said Randy Riley, the county commission president.
 Hubs in Allentown, Pa., and Riverside, Calif., are also scheduled to close, as well as 18 regional sorting centers. The move is expected to reduce operating costs to less than $1 billion, from $5.4 billion. DHL U.S. Express expects to lose $1.5 billion this year, excluding one-time expenses.
 Deutsche Post had ambitions of competing with FedEx and U.P.S. after acquiring Airborne in 2003 and combining it with DHL. But it was unable to rise above third place in the North American overnight delivery business.
 Completing the cutbacks depends on successful negotiations of the outsourcing plan with U.P.S., said Jonathan Baker, a DHL spokesman.
 ''It has been an extremely tough year for the express business in the United States and for the shipping industry as a whole,'' he said. ''More must be done now to protect our interests, and we're going to focus on what we do better than anyone else, and that's international shipping.'' 
 DHL's plans may pre-empt a Justice Department antitrust investigation into the deal with U.P.S. Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, and Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, asked for an investigation in September. But Mr. Brown said in a conference call on Monday that the inquiry may be moot.
 He wants quick action on federal aid to retrain workers and provide other help for the thousands who lose their jobs and said he would press DHL to help Wilmington financially. 
 The city wants to purchase the airport and attract new businesses but needs help. ''DHL really owes something back to the community, to say the least,'' Mr. Brown said. ''I'm hopeful that it will be a good citizen and turn over the air park with some subsidies.'' 
 Wilmington has been bracing for sweeping job cuts since DHL announced its proposed deal with U.P.S. in May. The more drastic decision to end all domestic air and ground shipping was a desperate move that some still hope to reverse.
 Joe Teuchert, a 16-year Astar cargo pilot and spokesman for Save the Jobs, an organization of community advocates, called the deal with U.P.S. anticompetitive and said it should be blocked by regulators. 
 Mr. Teuchert estimated that as many as 1,500 jobs could be saved in Wilmington if the deal did not go through. If the deal is completed, he will be out of a job along with thousands more, a prospect he has been fighting since spring.
 ''I handle emergencies all the time,'' he said. ''I've never had an emergency situation like this.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about cutbacks at DHL U.S. Express, the big shipping company, misstated the history of a distribution hub in Wilmington, Ohio. DHL acquired it in 2003 as part of its parent company's purchase of Airborne and expanded it with the help of local and state incentives. It did not build the hub in 2005. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DHL planes at the company's airport in Wilmington, Ohio. DHL had hoped to become a stronger rival to United Parcel Service. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
David L. Raizk, the mayor of Wilmington, above left, and Frank Appel, the chief executive of DHL's parent, Deutsche Post. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARIO VEDDER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (89%); POSTAL SERVICE (88%); OUTSOURCING (78%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); MAYORS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RECESSION (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); AIR FORCES (64%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: ASTAR AIR CARGO (91%); DEUTSCHE POST AG (91%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: DPW (FRA) (91%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); ATSG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (91%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (91%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (91%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (91%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



465 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae's Years of Gains Evaporate in a $29 Billion Hit

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
All the profits, and then some, that Fannie Mae reaped as home prices soared in recent years vanished in a mere three months, the mortgage giant said on Monday, leaving many analysts wondering where the red ink will end.
The numbers are staggering. Fannie Mae lost $29 billion during the third quarter, more than it earned from 2002 to 2006. So many homeowners are falling behind on their mortgages that Fannie Mae could seek tens of billions of dollars in government handouts next year.
But the broader implication of the grim results -- the first since Fannie and its sister company, Freddie Mac, were seized by the government in September -- is that home prices could continue to fall. 
With home values falling across much of the nation, Fannie Mae said that it was bracing for billions of dollars in additional losses and that it may need more than the $100 billion that the Treasury Department has pledged to keep the company afloat.
The hole at Fannie could get even worse if the economy confronts a deep, prolonged recession, as many economists predict. Of particular concern is the hostile reception the company is getting in the capital markets. Since the government guaranteed certain kinds of debt issued by banks last month, investors have shunned Fannie and Freddie debt that comes due in more than a year because those debts do not have an explicit federal guarantee.
Herbert M. Allison, who was appointed chief executive of Fannie by regulators, is taking a far darker view of the company's prospects than his predecessor, Daniel H. Mudd, who presided over the near total wipeout of shareholders.
The $29 billion third-quarter loss eclipsed the $28.1 billion the company earned from 2002 through 2006, and was more than 20 times the loss Fannie Mae reported for the third quarter of 2007. Most of the new red ink reflected a $9.2 billion charge for credit expenses and a $21.4 billion write-down of deferred tax assets that are valuable only if the company makes a profit.
''Credit losses are rising, and need for reserves is still increasing,'' said Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst who follows Fannie and Freddie for Credit Suisse. ''This is bad news, not just for Fannie, but for the whole economy. The message from these results is that we're going to continue seeing housing problems for at least a year.''
Fannie Mae said the number of loans in its portfolio that were in foreclosure or delinquent by more than three months jumped to 1.72 percent in the third quarter, up from 0.78 percent a year earlier. Furthermore, the company estimates that home prices have fallen 9.7 percent from their peak in the second quarter of 2006 and will fall a total of 19 percent before hitting bottom.
Steve Persky, the chief executive of Dalton Investments in Los Angeles, said the stark drop in home prices and rise in delinquency rates suggest that Fannie Mae could suffer steep losses in the coming months and that the government will have to inject significant capital into the company.
''Prices are going to decline and losses grow for the foreseeable future,'' he said. ''If they are talking about taking money now, it means they are eventually going to take more than we probably expected over the long run.''
It is unclear how much money the Treasury Department might have to put into the companies. Fannie Mae said it now has $9.3 billion of capital after its write-downs. But the company said it would have a capital deficit of $46.4 billion if it calculated its securities on a ''fair value basis,'' or according to what they would fetch in the market.
A spokeswoman for the Treasury declined to comment on Fannie's results. The Treasury has said it would invest as much as $100 billion each in Fannie and Freddie through preferred shares, though it has not put in any money yet. The government has also said it would lend as much money as the companies need.
Policy makers are relying on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The companies are supporting the financing of about 70 percent of all home loans being made. When other federal agencies like the Federal Housing Administration are included, the government's share of the mortgage market climbs to as much as 90 percent.
Bush administration officials have said they would like Fannie and Freddie to step up their acquisitions of home loans to support the real estate market. The Treasury Department had said it wanted each company to amass a mortgage portfolio of $850 billion.
But Fannie said on Monday that it had not been able to increase its portfolio much because of weaker demand for mortgage securities, tighter lending standards and weaker demand for its long-term debt from investors, particularly foreigners. The company's portfolio of loans and securities stood at $744.7 billion at the end of September, up less than 1 percent from June.
So far, the government's support for Fannie and Freddie has not reduced mortgage rates, as some had hoped. The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed rate loan was 6.2 percent last week, little changed from late August before the government took over the companies.
''The fact that these companies have not been buying mortgages in size, and that mortgage rates are higher than before these companies were taken over, shows that the government has failed to achieve its goals,'' said Howard Shapiro, an analyst at Fox-Pitt Kelton.
Analysts say the government might have to explicitly guarantee debt issued by Fannie and Freddie to give it the same status as bank debt to allay the concerns of investors. The government might also have to amend or waive a restriction that bars the companies from increasing their total debt by more than 10 percent from the level at the end of June.
Pressure is also building on the two companies to do more to help struggling homeowners avoid foreclosure. Fannie Mae said on Monday that the majority of its loan workouts have been done through its ''Home Saver'' program, under which the company provides personal loans to delinquent borrowers so they can catch up with their missed payments. The company also helps borrowers by extending their loans, reducing their interest rates or temporarily lowering monthly payments.
Advocates for homeowners and some policy makers have said Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and private mortgage companies need to do more to lower monthly payments either permanently or for an extended time. Studies show that as many as 50 percent of borrowers who receive a loan modification, but not a reduction in payments, default again.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (58%); HERBERT M ALLISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



466 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Prepare For Bad News

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
WILL Annette Bloch be the exception or the rule?
 In the middle of the financial meltdown and stock market collapse last month, Mrs. Bloch, the widow of Richard Bloch, who helped found the tax preparation company H & R Block, gave $20 million to the University of Kansas Hospital in Kansas City, Kan. The gift, possibly the state's largest to a hospital from an individual, will allow the hospital to create a nationally recognized cancer center. 
 Acknowledging an environment in which many philanthropists may not have the will or the means to give, Mrs. Bloch said in a telephone interview that she believed there was a need to demonstrate the country's resilience. ''I'm just very grateful that I'm able to do it,'' she said. ''I don't believe in waiting. I'd like it to be done tomorrow.'' 
 Mrs. Bloch had been treated for breast cancer at the hospital this year, and she and her husband had been longtime supporters of it.
 Across the country, hospital executives and fund-raisers are bracing for difficulty in their efforts to raise money. ''It's a strong message from Annette,'' said Bob Page, the chief executive of the University of Kansas Hospital. Grateful patients account for about 40 percent of what his hospital raises, and Mrs. Bloch's gift is more than the $18 million the hospital had raised since it began formal efforts in 2002, Mr. Page said. 
 Ronald R. Bunnell, the chief financial officer for Banner Health, a hospital system based in Phoenix, said he assumed there would be fewer donations because so many people with significant money or significant investments tied up in real estate, say, or banking have taken ''a big personal hit.'' But how rare will someone like Mrs. Bloch turn out to be? ''It's too soon to say,'' he said. 
 The new environment is a marked change from recent years, when many hospitals had substantial success in fund-raising. ''We're coming off from a record year for philanthropy,'' said Robert G. Kiely, the chief executive of Middlesex Hospital in Connecticut. 
 After the 1987 stock market decline, gifts of appreciated property like stock dropped significantly, said William C. McGinly, the chief executive of the Association for Healthcare Philanthropy in Falls Church, Va. The bursting of the dot-com bubble in 2002 had a similar effect on people's philanthropy to hospitals. ''We're walking into something very similar,'' he said.
 While fund-raisers tend to be optimistic about their ability to persuade people to give, Mr. McGinly says he is realistic, given the severity of the downturn. ''I don't know how you can discount the fact that major donors can't be as generous,'' he said. 
 Some hospital systems say they are already lowering their expectations. Baptist Health South Florida Foundation, which raises money for the Baptist Health system of hospitals in southern Florida, reduced its fund-raising goals to $9.9 million for 2009, from $12 million this year. ''The feeling is that we'll be pretty lucky if we get there,'' said Bob Baal, the foundation's chief executive. 
 Corporate giving is already feeling the effects of the economic slowdown, Mr. Baal said. Last month, the hospital sponsored a golf tournament fund-raiser. About 100 fewer players participated, he said, and the hospital raised about 30 percent less than it had forecast. ''Nobody's complaining,'' he said, but corporations were notably absent from an event at which they had been typically very visible. 
 One hospital consultant said that as hospitals enter the fund-raising season by holding galas and the like, they are finding that fewer companies are paying the fee -- usually several thousand dollars -- to buy a table.
 Instead, said David A. Rock, a health care consultant with Carl Marks & Company, an investing and consulting firm in New York, companies may buy some individual tickets. One recent event, which typically had generated more than $2 million, brought in about $1.5 million for a New York hospital, he said. 
 For some hospitals, that means taking more time to meet their fund-raising goals. ''We always have to be realistic,'' said Greg Pope, an executive at St. Thomas Health Services, a hospital system in Tennessee, and the incoming chairman of the Association for Healthcare Philanthropy. ''If a campaign has been well planned, it may have to be lengthened to meet its goals.'' But Mr. Pope advised against hospitals lowering their fund-raising goals because such a move would be a ''de-motivator'' for the staff. 
 Fund-raising experts advise taking the long view. Mr. Pope and others emphasize that it is important for hospital officials to keep in touch with those who have previously given. While the fund-raising staff might not see the same high yields for their efforts as they had recently, they need to maintain long-term relationships that may lead to generous gifts as times improve. 
 ''It's not unlike what you see with a lot of brokers and financial managers with their clients,'' Mr. McGinly said. 
 And some see a possible silver lining in the financial straits the country faces. Many hospitals have an even stronger case to make about the importance of giving so that they can continue to provide charity care and services that are even more needed as people lose jobs. ''There's a never-ending pool of prospective people to tell a story, share and engage,'' Mr. Pope said. ''It's incumbent on that hospital to tell that story.''
 Some hospitals, particularly those that serve poor patients, could find their renewed efforts are a clarion call to philanthropists. 
 ''We need to be unbashful about sharing our case and our need for support,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AGAINST THE TIDE: Bob Page, of the University of Kansas Hospital, with Annette Bloch, who donated $20 million recently.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KAUP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CANCER HOSPITALS (77%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (77%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); CANCER (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BREAST CANCER (71%)

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (84%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



467 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
Images of the Chepe railroad that travels through the dizzying heights and rugged depths of one of the world's largest canyon systems. More than 400 miles of tracks traverse the craggy landscape in northwestern Mexico. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 Opinion
 DOUG GLANVILLE: THE ENDLESS (OFF-) SEASON
 How do baseball players spend the winter months? Oh, the usual: working on their swing, learning ballroom dancing, starting alpaca farms.
 nytimes.com/opinion
 Economix
 With the Election Over, There's Free Time to...
 The economist Alan B. Krueger explores how the election's conclusion will affect the way we spend our time.
 nytimes.com/economix
 SLIDESHOW: THE BARE CUPBOARD
 A slide show, with commentary by David Cay Johnston, on new strains on the nation's food banks. Since the spring, the number of people needing food aid has surged, stretching the capacity of many organizations. 
 nytimes.com/giving
 City Room
 Taking Questions
 This week, Lucy N. Friedman, the president of The After-School Corporation, a nonprofit organization that organizes after-school programs for children, will be answering readers' questions about such programs in New York City.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 VIDEO: SALUTING 'PATTON'
 In honor of Veterans Day, A. O. Scott looks at the 1970 film ''Patton,'' with George C. Scott in the title role, near right, and Karl Malden, who played Gen. Omar Bradley.
 nytimes.com/movies
 SLIDESHOW: HELPED BY FOUR PAWS
 A slide show of service dogs trained to help disabled veterans through daily life.
 nytimes.com/giving
 INTERACTIVE: A PLACE FOR PRIMPING
 Before the gyrations, the dancers at the Hustler Club in Manhattan take care of the rather unsexy details behind closed doors.
 nytimes.com/nyregion

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BASEBALL (72%); DANCERS (71%); VETERANS (71%); DOGS (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); LLAMA & ALPACA PRODUCTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



468 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Man, 55, Is Shot to Death Delivering Meals for Charity

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON; Ann Farmer, Karen Zraick and Carolyn Wilder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A man delivering food to the homebound elderly was shot and killed in the lobby of an apartment building in Brownsville, Brooklyn, on Monday morning, the police said. 
 Whether the shooting was part of a robbery was not immediately known. The victim, Imonil Aminov, 55, worked as a deliveryman for the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, which brings food to Brownsville and East New York through the city's Department for the Aging, said Aileen Gitelson, chief executive officer of the Jewish Association. 
 The shooter, who was seen fleeing the scene, was described by the police as a black man in his 20s, wearing a black hooded sweatshirt. The police said they were reviewing footage from surveillance cameras, but it was not clear whether the shooting had been captured. 
 Mr. Aminov was filling in for another worker on Monday, Ms. Gitelson said. He had a wife and three daughters, and came to the country from Tajikistan in 1989, working various jobs, including stints as a hot-dog vendor and a livery driver, his family said. After an accident while working as a livery driver left him unemployed, he started work with the meal-delivery program in August, his family said.
 ''He was delivering food to poor people, and they shot him down,'' said his wife, Nadezhda Aminov.
 The shooting occurred shortly after 10:15 a.m. at 341 Dumont Avenue in the Brownsville Houses, the police said. Mr. Aminov was shot once in the chest. He was pronounced dead shortly after his arrival at Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center, the police said. 
 The shooting seemed unusual, even in the sometimes dangerous world of food deliveries. Robberies of food deliverymen, especially those employed by Chinese restaurants, while not routine, are far from unheard of in the city. But the shooting of a deliveryman working for a nonprofit organization on behalf of the elderly left many wondering what could have motivated the shooting.
 Delivery drivers for the Jewish Association occasionally carry cash, picking up voluntary contributions once a week, Ms. Gitelson said. But, she said, the donations are very small and are usually collected at week's end. 
 Mr. Aminov, who drove a truck marked ''Nutritional Meals Delivered to Homebound Seniors,'' had just made his delivery to Gertie Johnson, 73, a meal of pasta and broccoli, Ms. Johnson said. 
 ''He's a very nice man,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''I hate it so bad.'' 
 After he left the food with her granddaughter and made a second delivery, ''We heard a bang,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''I said, 'Was that a shot?' ''
 Ms. Johnson said her granddaughter replied, ''It sounds like a shot.'' The granddaughter looked out and saw Mr. Aminov lying in the hall, Ms. Johnson said.
 Another resident, Bernadette Jones, said she heard a noise, ''like something dropped'' in the hallway. About two minutes later, her 20-year-old daughter, Kady, opened the apartment door to go to the store, and screamed.
 Bernadette Jones said Mr. Aminov's glasses and black cap were still on and, not seeing any blood, she assumed he had had a heart attack. Another neighbor lifted Mr. Aminov's hand, but it flopped back to the floor, she said. 
 Ms. Jones said that across the hall from her apartment, a woman screamed, ''God, what did they do? He just brought me my lunch.''
 Another neighbor, Martha Surgener, 68, believed he was new to Brownsville because he arrived at her home early. 
 ''They bring nice meals -- chicken, beef stew, all kinds of things,'' she said. ''They can't go around killing people like that. It's a depressing day. It's crazy.''
 Accounts varied as to how often Mr. Aminov, who lived in the Starrett City complex in East New York, Brooklyn, visited the Brownsville Houses. Some tenants said they had seen him before. But Mr. Aminov's nephew, Arthur Leviyeva, 28, said Mr. Aminov feared the Brownsville Houses and had refused to go there on Monday, only to be ordered to go by a dispatcher. ''He saw it as a very dangerous place,'' Mr. Leviyeva said. ''Maybe he was trying to fight them and they shot him in the heart.''
 Ms. Gitelson said she did not know of any such exchange between Mr. Aminov and a dispatcher. 
 ''If someone refuses to work, they just refuse to work,'' she said, and added that she had never heard of a driver refusing to enter a neighborhood. ''We deliver I don't know how many meals a year,'' she said. ''I've never heard it.'' 
 A co-worker, Anita Acevedo, 44, said Mr. Aminov was a popular and eager deliveryman, nicknamed ''Running Man.'' 
 ''He took the meals and he would just run with them,'' Ms. Acevedo said. ''Everybody loved him here.''
 All drivers are routinely warned of possible danger in neighborhoods with high rates of crime, she said. 
 ''I would tell the guys, 'Guys if there's ever anything, please give up what you have,' '' Ms. Acevedo said. '' 'Don't resist.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After the death of Imonil Aminov, his sister, Yafa Leviyeva, right, and nephew, Arthur Leviyeva, left, grieved with another relative.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Imonil Aminov, 55, left, delivered meals for the Jewish Association for Services to the Aged. He was shot after leaving food for Martha Surgener, 68, right, in the Brownsville Houses in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Police officers at the scene of the killing on Monday in the Brownsville Houses, 341 Dumont Avenue in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CHARITIES (85%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (78%); MEALS ON WHEELS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); AGING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); SHOOTINGS (58%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH ASSOCIATION FOR SERVICES FOR THE AGED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); TAJIKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



469 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Disputed Queens Housing Faces a Vote This Week

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration says its proposed Hunters Point South development on the East River in Queens is the city's largest middle-income housing development since the early 1970s and an important response to high housing costs. 
 But church groups, housing advocates and community groups say that the plan goes too far in benefiting middle-class households at the expense of lower-income ones. Only families earning between $55,000 and $158,000 are eligible for units, and about half the households in Queens report income less than that. 
 On Thursday, the debate will come to a head when the City Council votes on the 30-acre development in Long Island City. 
 The project is part of a broader plan by Mr. Bloomberg to spend $7.5 billion to build and preserve 165,000 units of affordable housing over 10 years. While much of that plan focuses on low- and moderate-income tenants, Hunters Point is aimed squarely at the middle class.
 Until recently, the administration had wanted to get the framework for these and other projects in place and leave much of the construction work to the next mayor. Mr. Bloomberg's decision to revise the term-limits law and run for a third term has forced the administration to decide how to proceed with them, even as the economy slows, tax revenues dry up and the estimated costs continue to rise.
 Hunters Point will cost at least $222 million for the land and infrastructure and $128 million in housing subsidies. 
 The Bloomberg administration has insisted that Hunters Point South, which sits at the southwest tip of Queens, where Newtown Creek enters the East River, was intended to address the exodus of middle-class families from the city because of rising housing costs. The city is rezoning the once-industrial land for a 10-acre park, a school and towers containing 5,000 apartments, 60 percent of which would be set aside for households with income between $55,000 and $158,000 a year.
 ''We've seen in the last 10 years that middle-income families have been forced in increasing numbers to leave the city,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. ''The notion that police officers, firefighters and teachers aren't able to live here is something that the city can't abide.''
 Queens for Affordable Housing, a coalition of housing advocates, community groups and Catholic Charities of Brooklyn and Queens, agrees that school teachers and police officers ought to be able to live in the city, but they say maintenance workers, clerks and municipal employees also should be able to. 
 Since the median income in Queens is $51,290 and even lower in the neighborhoods near Hunters Point, the opponents say most residents earn too little to qualify for subsidized housing at the project. 
 Further, they contend that the Bloomberg administration is establishing subsidized housing for families who can pay market rents. Under federal guidelines, for instance, families earning $158,000 could afford to pay rents as high as $3,950 a month, or 30 percent of their income.
 Josefa Castro, a community project director at Catholic Charities, said many immigrant and poor families in Queens have to double up in small apartments because they cannot find something they can afford.
 ''This is a good project,'' said Eric N. Gioia, the councilman who represents the district, ''but when you look at the desperate need for housing in Queens, where families are being pushed out or forced to live in squalor, the city needs to do more.''
 Queens Community Board 2, which includes Hunters Point, voted to approve the mayor's plan but recommended that the city reduce the subsidies for higher-income families and set aside apartments for lower-income residents. 
 ''This area is going through a tsunami of development,'' said Joseph Conley, the community board chairman. ''Every single project is luxury housing. People in the neighborhood are questioning whether they'll be able to stay there because rents have changed so dramatically.''
 The Bloomberg administration told the board that subsidizing lower-income families would add $300 million to the cost. The Pratt Center for Community Development, a Brooklyn-based organization, countered that the city could have reduced costs by using any of the many state and city housing programs, including low-interest loans and tax breaks.
 There is little doubt that the cost of the project has climbed since 2006, when Mayor Bloomberg first announced a plan to build up to 5,000 units, all subsidized for middle-class families. The current budget is $222 million, up from the initial estimate of $146 million to acquire the land and build the streets, parks and schools. In an effort to cut costs, the city decided that only 60 percent of the units would be set aside for moderate- and middle-income families and that the rest would be market rate.
 The city is also rezoning an adjacent parcel for up to 1,650 units, a fifth of them low- and moderate-income. 
 ''To use city-owned land and taxpayer dollars to fund a project that excludes the majority of Queens families and residents is unacceptable,'' said Hannah Weinstock, an organizer for Queens Community House, a group active in the coalition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); ZONING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TERM LIMITS (75%); MAYORS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); CHARITIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



470 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: For Africa, 'Energy From Dirt'

BYLINE: By CATE DOTY

 BODY:
START-UP companies around the world are looking at Africa -- where 74 percent of the population lives without electricity -- as a test market for new, off-the-grid lighting technologies.
 Many of these efforts involve wind or solar power. But one group in Cambridge, Mass., is working to develop fuel cells made from the bacteria that occur in soil or waste.
 ''You can just literally make energy from dirt,'' said Aviva Presser, a graduate student at the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. ''And there's a lot of dirt in Africa.'' 
 Ms. Presser is one of the founders of Lebone Solutions, which is being financed by a $200,000 World Bank grant and private investments. Lebone's idea is a microbial fuel cell, a battery that makes a small amount of energy out of materials like manure, graphite cloth and soil, which are common to African households.
 But Lebone -- which means ''light stick'' in the Sotho language -- does not just want to make the batteries and sell them to African consumers. The group hopes that eventually, as the technology becomes more refined, each household will be able to build a battery at a one-time cost of no more than $15.
 ''Africans are very, very creative,'' said Hugo Van Vuuren, a Lebone founder. ''It's very entrepreneurial, just not in the way we traditionally define entrepreneurial.''
 Mr. Van Vuuren, who is from Pretoria, South Africa, and who graduated from Harvard last year with a degree in economics, likened the simplicity of the battery to ''the potato experiment that most of us did in high school class,'' a two-step reaction that produces a simple charge.
 But the bacteria in a microbial fuel cell produce electrons while doing what they naturally are supposed to do: metabolize organic waste, like dead leaves or grass or compost, for energy. The electrons then stick to an electrode, like a piece of graphite, and the chemical reaction that follows creates a small charge sufficient to power a small lamp or cellphone. 
 ''It can be made by people with minimal training,'' Ms. Presser said. ''It doesn't take a massive investment.''
 The founders of the Lebone team were classmates at Harvard, and looking at sustainable lighting technologies for Africa was their class project. Last summer, they took the technology to Leguruki, a village in Tanzania, to see how the batteries work in households. For three hours each night, six families used batteries made of manure, graphite cloth and buckets, and a copper wire to conduct the current to a circuit board.
 While in Leguruki, Mr. Van Vuuren said, the group learned as much about the people who used the batteries as the batteries themselves.
 ''People walk an hour or more a day to the local high schools to get their phones charged for two or three days,'' he said, noting that the phones were sources of light as well as communication devices. The batteries are also used to power radios, Mr. Van Vuuren said, as important a medium of communication in Africa as the cellphone.
 ''Ideally, they would like to have a refrigerator,'' Mr. Van Vuuren said. ''But right now, their key need is a cellphone.''
 Mr. Van Vuuren and several of his fellow Lebone researchers know the challenges of Africa personally, which he credits for the group's commitment to focusing on Africa first.
 ''We are a group of Africans that have had the privilege of a first-rate education,'' he said. ''There are very few people who have insights into both. We lived through it.''
 The group is expanding the refined prototypes into Namibia, where, over the next two years, it will examine how more easily available materials, like chicken wire, will create electricity. Mr. Van Vuuren said his group wanted to test the microbial cell batteries in African settings before bringing them to the American market.
 Eventually, Lebone wants to create a new business model for energy distribution in Africa, helping to funnel fuel cells and other technologies tested in Africa to distributors there, rather than reducing developed technologies to meet African needs.
 ''If you work within those constraints, you can create something that works in the developed and developing world,'' Mr. Van Vuuren said. ''There's no reason that people need to A: starve, or B: can't read at night.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOME GROWN: Stephen Lwendo, a Harvard electrical engineering student from Africa, shows villagers in Tanzania how energy flows to a light from a fuel cell.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HUGO VAN VUUREN/LEBONE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); STARTUPS (89%); TEST MARKETING (78%); BACTERIA (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); FAMILY (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) AFRICA (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



471 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: College Groups 'Party for a Cause' to Help Charities

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THREE summers ago, Lisa Haque and her friends were enjoying the beautiful Santa Monica, Calif., weather when someone suggested they organize a party to bring their disparate groups of friends together. A professional party planner, Ms. Haque was onboard. Then someone suggested they give a party to benefit a charity. 
 That set in motion what would eventually become an annual event that has raised more than $40,000 for Heal the Bay, a nonprofit organization devoted to cleaning up the beaches of Southern California. Now known as the White Party, the gathering is a regular feature of the summer scene, though it had a rocky start. 
 First, Heal the Bay wouldn't let Ms. Haque and her friends use its name to promote the party unless she guaranteed a $10,000 donation. She was taken aback, but having already been rejected by other, bigger charities, she understood their apprehension. 
 ''If the event was bad, it would have reflected badly on them,'' she said. So she went ahead and gave the party without using the Heal the Bay logo, then donated more than $10,000 to the group. Now they are partners.
 Then there was the issue of getting everything for the party free or at a discount, from the space to the alcohol, to maximize what went to charity. Without a celebrity host -- a route Ms. Haque wanted to avoid because it would draw attention from the cause and encourage freeloaders -- hotels and caterers were reluctant to make deals with her, she said. 
 If you add to this her very un-Los Angeles idea of making everyone pay for tickets, even people who think of themselves as celebrities, it made for a difficult start. But that has made her more committed to using parties to promote charity. 
 ''This is the one event I do every year that I don't take a penny for,'' Ms. Haque said. ''I'd like to do it for the heart transplant center or the cancer research society. But knowing how much time it takes of me, I wonder how much I can give.''
 That is an issue for many charity-minded people: they want to do as much as they can, but organizing an event to benefit a cause is a huge undertaking. 
 But now a group of students at Yale University is trying to make the process easier. 
 Last year, when Richard Littlehale was a junior, he started the Party for a Cause Foundation to handle the logistics of giving a party for charity and then using its status as a tax-exempt nonprofit organization to get the money to the right place. ''We think of ourselves as wedding planners,'' he said. ''Groups on campus come to us with ideas and we help them make the event happen.'' 
 Mr. Littlehale had two goals. First, with parties every weekend and events throughout the week on campus, he wanted to make it easier for a group to have a party for a cause. Second, he wanted to spread his idea to other campuses and around the nation so people could expand on what he had done at Yale. 
 So far, Yale's chapter has organized fund-raising parties as varied as a barbecue for a women's shelter in New Haven and a dance marathon to provide clean drinking water in Niger. This fall, Georgetown University started a chapter.
 While the intent of party philanthropy is to do good while having fun, some nonprofit consultants balk at it. 
 ''This has become very popular,'' said Donald M. Fellows, president and chief executive of Marts & Lundy, a consultancy for nonprofit groups. ''My sense is some of it is philanthropy-marketing.'' 
 He said that in a tough economic climate many businesses need new tactics to bring people to them. Promoting a charitable cause is one way to market themselves to different groups. 
 Brian Mak, founder of a similar group called Party4ACause, said unabashedly that this was exactly what he had been trying to do. 
 ''We're doing an event in the spirit of giving,'' he said. ''We try to get things for free, but in return we're a marketing vehicle for people. You give X, Y, Z for our event and we'll put your name on our flier.'' 
 Of course, the opportunity for self-promotion has always been an important motive for charitable giving: picture those college and hospital buildings named for wealthy donors.
 Behind Party4ACause's cheekiness is an earnestness. Mr. Mak, a 26-year-old online marketer, started his group, which is all volunteer, after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and has since organized 10 events in New York.
 His most recent one, in October, was a wine tasting fund-raiser for Habitat for Humanity, which was the first event with a size limit -- a maximum of 70 tickets were sold. The reason? He wanted representatives from Habitat to be able to talk to everyone who attended, something he realized couldn't be done when the events grew to 200 people.
 ''You can match people who want to find entertainment and give money with charities,'' he said. ''What it comes down to is, charity isn't hard and it shouldn't be.''
 What the Tasting Room, a wine bar in Houston, did in the wake of Hurricane Ike this year could be seen narrowly as marketing or more broadly as even more generous than it first appears. When the owners of the bar discovered that they had electricity when the majority of the city did not, they held a party the next weekend to benefit the Houston Red Cross. A dollar from the price of every glass of wine and pizza sold went to the relief agency. 
 ''We do a tremendous volume of business, so that added up quickly,'' said Jonathan Horowitz, a co-owner. ''We raised $10,000 that first day,'' adding that it ''gave people a chance to relax and enjoy a glass of wine and have a pizza and not worry that, 'Geez, there's a tree in my house.' ''
 The bar continued the event for the next three Saturdays, culminating with its annual Houston Cellar Classic. For that event, it donated from $5 to $25 per person to the Red Cross, depending on the category of ticket purchased. 
 At the same time the Tasting Room was donating some of its profits to charity, it was also struggling to get its other three restaurants reopened. ''We calculated some pretty significant losses,'' Mr. Horowitz said. A less charitably inclined business might have hung on to its profits. But he said the positive response to linking fun and charity kept them hosting events, even though they were struggling to make up the losses elsewhere. 
 ''The Houston Astros give $1 million and it's hard to compete with that,'' Mr. Horowitz said. ''For us, it was what can we do locally. It was born out of our desire to do something.''
 That need to help in some way, even if something that seems simple turns out to be difficult, is what unites party philanthropies. 
 ''I started marketing my party in May, and when I did, we didn't factor in the economic downturn,'' Ms. Haque said of her White Party in Santa Monica. The year before, she was turning people away; this year she was calling people until the end to sell the $100 tickets. But she is undeterred and said she looks forward to next summer's party. 
 ''Working with these people at charitable organizations is so far from what I come across on a normal day,'' she said. ''They're working to do good, and everyone can learn from that. They need third-party people to be doing things as well.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); CANCER (50%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



472 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: A Death in Patchogue

 BODY:
Marcello Lucero was killed late Saturday night near the commuter railroad station in Patchogue, N.Y., a middle-class village in central Long Island. He was beaten and stabbed. The friend who crouched beside him in a parking lot as he lay dying, soaked in blood, said Mr. Lucero, who was 37, had come to the United States 16 years ago from Ecuador. 
 The police arrested seven teenage boys, who they said had driven into the village from out of town looking for Latinos to beat up. The police said the mob cornered Mr. Lucero and another man, who escaped and later identified the suspects to the police. A prosecutor at the arraignment on Monday quoted the young men as having said: ''Let's go find some Mexicans.'' They have pleaded not guilty.
 The county executive, Steve Levy, quickly issued a news release denouncing this latest apparent hate crime in Suffolk County. That should be the first and least of the actions he and other leaders take.
 A possible lynching in a New York suburb should be more than enough to force this country to acknowledge the bitter chill that has overcome Latinos in these days of rage against illegal immigration. 
 The atmosphere began to darken when Republican politicians decided a few years ago to exploit immigration as a wedge issue. They drafted harsh legislation to criminalize the undocumented. They cheered as vigilantes streamed to the border to confront the concocted crisis of Spanish-speaking workers sneaking in to steal jobs and spread diseases. Cable personalities and radio talk-show hosts latched on to the issue. Years of effort in Congress to assemble a responsible overhaul of the immigration system failed repeatedly. Its opponents wanted only to demonize and punish the Latino workers on which the country had come to depend.
 A campaign of raids and deportations, led by federal agents with help from state and local posses, has become so pervasive that nearly 1 in 10 Latinos, including citizens and legal immigrants, have told of being stopped and asked about their immigration status, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. Now that the economy is in free fall, the possibility of scapegoating is deepening Hispanic anxiety.
 It is not yet clear how closely connected Mr. Lucero's murder is to this broad wave of xenophobia. But there is both a message and opportunity here for officials like Mr. Levy, an immigration hard-liner whose relations with his rapidly growing Latino immigrant constituency have been strained by past crises and confrontations. 
 Deadly violence represents the worst fear that immigrants deal with every day, but it is not the only one. It must be every leader's task to move beyond easy outrage and take on the difficult job of understanding and defending a community so vulnerable to sudden outbreaks of hostility and terror.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Editorials on Nov. 11 and Nov. 14 about the murder of an Ecuadorean immigrant on Long Island used an incorrect spelling of his name that was given by police. He was Marcelo Lucero, not Marcello.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); MURDER (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); COUNTIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); POLITICS (70%); DEPORTATION (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



473 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Protecting Mr. Mugabe

 BODY:
We had hoped that political leaders in southern Africa would finally resolve Zimbabwe's political crisis at their summit meeting last weekend. Instead, they made it worse, agreeing that President Robert Mugabe and his thuggish loyalties can keep control of the two ministries that oversee the army and the police. 
 A power-sharing compromise negotiated in September can work only if these two ministries are divided between Mr. Mugabe's supporters and those of Morgan Tsvangirai, the top vote-getter in the first round of this year's presidential elections. That is essential since it was army- and police-backed violence that drove Mr. Tsvangirai out of the second round, creating the current destructive political impasse. 
 For too long, Zimbabwe's people have been abandoned to Mr. Mugabe's brutality, famine and economy-destroying hyperinflation. There hardly could be a clearer case of a violently stolen election, a ruinous dictator and a responsible opposition willing to compromise and accept less than the clear victory it won at the polls. 
 Yet handed the opportunity for constructive leadership, the politicians in the Southern African Development Community chose instead to protect Mr. Mugabe (one of their own) and his undercutting of the power-sharing deal painstakingly negotiated under their own auspices. 
 Now that Zimbabwe's neighbors have failed, the United States, Europe and others will have to increase the pressure on Mr. Mugabe and his cronies, denying visas and freezing foreign assets. While providing humanitarian relief, they must withhold all other forms of aid and recognition until Mr. Mugabe agrees to share or vacate power. 
 According to some reports, Mr. Mugabe has contemplated yielding several times since his first-round election defeat but has been held back by pleas from his generals who fear losing their power and ill-gotten gains and possibly being prosecuted for their worst crimes. 
 That suggests the regional leaders might have been able to pressure Mr. Mugabe into doing the right thing for Zimbabwe. Instead, they have enabled his continued misrule and guaranteed his people's further misery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (55%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (96%); AFRICA (93%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



474 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; ABOUT LEVERAGE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: A Tarnished Capitalism Still Serves Philanthropy

BYLINE: By MATTHEW BISHOP. 
Matthew Bishop is New York bureau chief of The Economist and co-author of ''Philanthrocapitalism: How the Rich Can Save the World.''

 BODY:
The new day care center for poor children in the Indian slum town of Dharavi was already decorated with balloons and confetti, in readiness for the celebration of its opening. Then Lehman Brothers, the main charitable donor to the center, went bust, and the opening was abruptly canceled. Soon after, back in Manhattan, Grand Street Settlement, a nonprofit organization providing education and social services on the Lower East Side, decided not to bother asking Lehman for another round of financing. What would be the point?
 In recent years, rapid wealth creation, particularly on Wall Street, has resulted in a surge not just in giving, but in a new, businesslike approach to giving that I call ''philanthrocapitalism.'' Now, people are asking whether the recent struggles of some of capitalism's biggest winners, and the growing suspicion of some of capitalism's core methods, including Wall Street's use of leverage, mean that philanthrocapitalism is in trouble, too. 
 In fact, there is reason to think that the need for philanthrocapitalism will be greater than ever, and that leverage will be one of the main reasons.
 Philanthrocapitalists have developed a new vocabulary to describe their approach to charity, which borrows enthusiastically from the business lexicon. They call themselves ''social investors'' or ''venture philanthropists,'' and try to make donations that are ''high performance'' and ''strategic.'' Above all, they love to ''leverage'' their money.
 Though leading philanthrocapitalists are giving away unprecedented amounts of money -- Bill Gates and Warren Buffett are together handing out about $3.5 billion a year through the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation -- they are quick to recognize that even those sums are dwarfed by government and big business budgets. (The New York City schools budget is about $17 billion a year, by comparison.) To make a real difference, philanthropists have to find ways to use their money that have an outsize impact, typically by using donations to change how others spend their money. 
 This kind of leverage -- using a relatively small donation to enlist others in a cause -- is very different from the Wall Street kind, which by multiplying the size of traders' bets sometimes has blown extra air into financial bubbles. Expect philanthropic leverage to become more important in tough economic times as social demands increase and government budgets get tighter -- the need to get the maximum bang for the increasingly sought-after philanthropic buck should become even more critical.
 The Gates Foundation, for example, has tried to ''leverage'' the research and development budgets of the big pharmaceutical companies by giving incentives to encourage them to spend more of their research budgets on discovering, say, a vaccine for malaria (which kills millions) rather than a cure for baldness (which hurts only vanity). Another leveraging strategy has been to encourage research that combines a variety of inexpensive drugs to cure a different disease.
 The X Prize Foundation, with its lavish awards for achievements like privately financed manned space flight or speedy sequencing of the genome, can convince competitors to spend far more collectively than the amount they stand to win if they succeed.
 And then there is the most tempting pool of money -- government spending, much of which is already directed at solving social problems. Leveraging those budgets has become a core strategy for many of today's leading philanthrocapitalists, including Mr. Gates and Michael Bloomberg, whose use of his own money to get elected mayor of New York, one could argue, is the clearest example yet of philanthrocapitalistic leverage.
 As Mayor Bloomberg says, his charitable foundation is giving millions of dollars away to try to eradicate smoking worldwide, but that money will struggle to match the impact of the ban on smoking in public he legislated in New York. Mayor Bloomberg also uses philanthropy to finance pilot projects that he thinks are too risky to ask taxpayers to pay for initially. If they are proven successful, however, this philanthropic investment can be leveraged with little controversy or risk to taxpayers by making the expansion of the project part of the city budget. A similar model is now being used by Cory Booker, the mayor of Newark, who has a philanthropy coordinator in City Hall.
 One obvious opportunity for leverage during the economic downturn will be for philanthrocapitalists to bring about mergers and acquisitions in the nonprofit sector, which currently has far too many organizations doing essentially the same thing. When raising money was easy, those nonprofits could resist demands to get together. Now philanthrocapitalists who want to finance bigger, more efficient organizations may find a new willingness to accept their terms.
 However, the opportunity to leverage philanthropic dollars may be even greater abroad than at home. The initiatives by the Bush administration in overseas aid and development to help poor people threatened with diseases like AIDS and malaria have often worked in partnership with philanthropists. 
 The overseas aid plans of the new administration seem certain to be scaled back. President Barack Obama would do well to make it easier for philanthropists to effectively leverage their dollars overseas by formally including them in his ''soft power'' strategy. 
 The potential to change a society, in the way that only a government can, holds out a high return that increasingly appeals to philanthrocapitalists. Already this year, the billion-dollar Peter G. Peterson Foundation has been created with the sole mission of promoting fiscally responsible government spending.
 It will not escape the attention of today's leading philanthrocapitalists that there may never be a better opportunity for them to leverage government spending in directions they want than at the start of a new administration explicitly committed to change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); EQUITY FINANCING (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (65%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (62%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%); MALARIA (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



475 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Discretionary Tastes Shift, Making Starbucks Suffer

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Starbucks, the global coffee chain, was built by a generation of coffee drinkers who regularly rewarded themselves with a small daily luxury. 
 But in a sharp economic downturn, fewer people are in the mood to indulge. On Monday, the chain reported net income dropped 97 percent, capping a turbulent year in which the company tried to get ahead of the economic slowdown by closing stores and laying off employees. 
 It may be painful for Starbucks investors to remember, but the company, based in Seattle, was once associated with predictable growth and cultural relevance. During the last two decades, Starbucks, and the other premium coffee chains that emulate it, seemed to peddle a product that was central to an affluent urban and suburban way of life. 
 But many people are now abandoning the product, if not the lifestyle that goes with it. Over the three months that ended Sept. 28, 4 percent fewer people visited Starbucks stores, and on average, the ones that did spent 3 percent less on items like mocha cappuccinos and chocolate croissants than customers in the same period a year ago.
 One of Starbucks' new rivals, McDonald's, which started offering specialty coffee drinks this year, also reported earnings on Monday. The juxtaposition was stark. Global same-store sales at McDonald's rose 8.2 percent in October alone, suggesting that at least some consumers are obsessing over their pennies and turning to less expensive options. 
 ''This happens in every recession,'' said Erik Hurst, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago. ''When times are uncertain and there's a chance that you might be the one losing your job, you would much rather keep some discretionary funds around in the form of savings than spend them on luxuries'' like expensive coffee drinks.
 Starbucks reported flat revenue and a 98 percent decline in profit over the fourth quarter of 2007, which were dragged down in part by charges related to its turnaround plan that includes the termination of 1,000 employees.
 Starbucks reported a modest profit of $5.4 million, or a penny a share, compared with $158.5 million or 21 cents a share, in the period a year ago. Revenue rose 3 percent, to $2.5 billion, up slightly from $2.4 billion a year ago. The company's operating expenses rose because of higher payroll, higher rents and inventory write-downs, while operating profit margins shrank to 0.6 percent, from 10.2 percent in the year-ago period. It blamed weak traffic in its American stores, the source of 88 percent of its revenue.
 Down more than 56 percent already this year, Starbucks' stock fell 2.75 percent Monday in after-hours trading, to $9.92.
 In a conference call with Wall Street analysts, Starbucks executives sought to portray their company as poised for a turnaround in 2009. They said they had identified the macroeconomic storm early and taken action -- announcing 600 store closures over the summer and cutting expenses.
 The company's chief executive, Howard D. Schultz, said the company was also reacting to economic conditions by introducing new marketing programs that reward loyal customers, such as a new Gold Card that costs $25 and entitles buyers to 10 percent discounts and free wireless Internet access in stores. 
 ''In this environment, the rules of engagement no longer apply,'' Mr. Schultz said in the call. ''We are keenly aware of the importance of value to our customers.''
 Mr. Schultz said that the worst might already be behind Starbucks. He said that the decline in sales remained constant over the first few weeks, while other retailers of premium products continued to see sales plummet. 
 Starbucks offered a range of predictions for 2009 that included three different possibilities for what it might earn in the year ahead, related to the deterioration of consumer spending.
 For its entire 2008 fiscal year, Starbucks announced that net income fell to $315.5 million for the year, from $672.6 million during 2007 on revenue of $10.38 billion. 
 Starbucks is now slowing the proliferation of its stores, which made it ubiquitous in American cities, but also a source of comedy to many. The company plans to end the 2009 fiscal year with 225 fewer company-owned stores than at the beginning of the year. 
 Internationally, Starbucks is planning to open about 700 new stores in the fiscal year ahead, but two-thirds of those will be licensed cafes that are run by other companies, like supermarkets and bookstores.
 Starbucks received something of a public relations boost when it promised a free cup of drip coffee to all voters on Election Day. Despite the fact that it had to amend that promise to include everyone -- to avoid running afoul of voter bribery laws -- the company captured copious amounts of free press and consumer attention.
 Mr. Schultz and his colleagues hope that is the beginning of the Starbucks turnaround. Many Starbucks watchers say that the company has a resiliency with its core customers that it can build on in the months and years ahead.
 ''Starbucks has a core group of consumers for whom the brand is central in their lives,'' said Michael Silverstein, a senior vice president of the Boston Consulting Group. ''They go every day, often to the same shop. They have money in their budget for it. And it is one of the last things that they will ever give up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Starbucks is closing hundreds of the stores it owns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B1)
 Starbucks is introducing new programs to reward customers, like a card that offers 10 percent discounts and free Internet access. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); COFFEE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); SUBURBS (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (94%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



476 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: The Nonprofit's Guide to Surviving a Downturn

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
REYNOLD LEVY, the president of Lincoln Center, could not have predicted the economic climate into which his new book would land. But ''Yours for the Asking: An Indispensable Guide to Fund-Raising and Management'' (John Wiley & Sons) now seems eerily prescient -- particularly with chapters like ''Fund-Raising in Stormy Weather'' and ''Overcoming Economic Bad News and Psychological Resistance.'' 
 Michael M. Kaiser, the president of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, appears similarly clairvoyant in his just-published book, ''The Art of the Turnaround: Creating and Maintaining Healthy Arts Organizations'' (Brandeis University Press). In the book, Mr. Kaiser catalogs his experiences leading cultural groups through financial crises, specifically the Kansas City Ballet, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the American Ballet Theater and the Royal Opera House in London.
 Mr. Levy, too, has ample expertise to share: before his six years at Lincoln Center, he was president of the International Rescue Committee, president of the AT&T Foundation, executive director of the 92nd Street Y and staff director of the Task Force on the New York City Fiscal Crisis during the Abraham D. Beame administration. 
 In these positions Mr. Levy honed some of the techniques he now recommends in his book: for instance, ''shoe leather trumps mail.'' 
 ''It is harder to turn down a request to meet face to face for 50 minutes than a written proposal for $50,000,'' he writes. And don't let a ''no'' discourage you. ''For great fund-raisers,'' he writes, '' 'no' is just the beginning of a conversation.''
 Mr. Levy also talks about the importance of doing your homework, not only on how a company's strategy might connect with your group's mission, but on people inside the company. 
 ''Identify the name, rank and serial number of those responsible for departments that manage assets of potential use to you,'' he writes. ''Then find out which supporters, friends and allies of your nonprofit know these folks and can introduce them to your work. Spend time acquainting them with your outfit in person and on site, in an appealing manner that respects an executive's time and responds to his or her interests.''
 Regarding tough economic times, Mr. Levy asserts in the book that affluent people donate more from their assets than their income, leaving their contributions less vulnerable to a downturn. Moreover, worthy causes remain worthy, Mr. Levy said in an interview, no matter what the current state of the world. ''Good fund-raisers are people who believe in their cause -- they don't believe much has changed because the economy has changed,'' he said. ''The child in Rwanda is as susceptible to malaria and death as they were last year.'' 
 In fact, Mr. Levy says, the United States is extremely generous; $306 billion was given to charity in 2007, 80 percent of which came from individuals while they were alive or in testamentary gifts, as opposed to donations from corporations or foundations. ''Our country is extraordinarily wealthy and giving is expandable, and we're not in a zero-sum game here,'' he said.
 Mr. Levy said he understood that some nonprofit executives were uncomfortable asking for money when people felt strapped. ''I keep saying, It's not a college exam where if you get one right out of three, you flunk,'' he said. ''With fund-raising, if you're successful in one out of three solicitations, you're the most valuable player. Step up to bat more frequently.''
 At the same time, fund-raisers should be more flexible about terms of payment and more focused on the appropriate people to approach, he said.
 ''If you do your research properly, you have a reasonably good sense of who might have been adversely affected and you steer away from those folks,'' he said. ''I would not be going to good friends at Lehman,'' Bear Stearns, A.I.G. or ''other places that have merged or disappeared.'' 
 While Mr. Levy's book is meant to be a manual -- ''a how-to for all those with an instinct to raise funds and those who harbor fears or qualms about doing so,'' he says -- Mr. Kaiser's provides something of a primer for those looking to rescue ailing arts organizations. 
 Among Mr. Kaiser's central principles are the importance of having a strong leader with a clear plan, building the board, improving marketing efforts and focusing on opportunities rather than rehashing mistakes. 
 In hard times, Mr. Kaiser says, arts groups should continue to invest in and publicize their art, though their instinct might be to do less of both.
 ''When one cuts artistic initiative and marketing, one cuts the very reason people supply revenue to the arts organization,'' Mr. Kaiser writes. ''Audience members and donors are attracted to exciting, important work; their interest is confirmed by attention generated by marketing efforts.''
 When he arrived at the American Ballet Theater, for example, there was ''no money,'' Mr. Kaiser said. Yet he announced the biggest production in the company's history -- ''Othello,'' choreographed by Lar Lubovitch with a score commissioned from Elliot Goldenthal. ''People get excited by the art,'' Mr. Kaiser said in an interview. ''They say, This is the company I want to be supporting in this difficult time.'' 
 Most important, Mr. Kaiser said, is selling the institution as a whole, not just individual projects. ''How do you get people talking about your organization?'' he said. ''You have to have a focus on that. Too many organizations think marketing is putting out a pretty brochure each year.''
 Mr. Kaiser says he meets every morning at 7:30 with his marketing director and thinks constantly about ways to raise visibility for the Kennedy Center. ''Many arts executives relegate marketing to marketing staff,'' he said. ''It's a central part of my job. Most people think marketing is about selling tickets. For me it's also about raising funds.'' 
 On the cost-cutting side, Mr. Kaiser suggested looking at reductions in layers of staff and official travel, particularly to conferences. He also recommended preparing for a downturn by accumulating a reserve fund; over the last seven years, the Kennedy Center has stockpiled $20 million. ''That gives us a measure of security as we head into this period,'' Mr. Kaiser said. 
 Mr. Kaiser also writes about the importance of diversifying the donor base. At the Kennedy Center, he has reached out to an international pool of supporters. He also emphasizes the importance of having board members who make contributions. When he took charge at Alvin Ailey, for example, the company had an annual operating budget of $6 million and half of the 36 board members were giving less than $300 a year.
 ''I had to get the board to understand that was not an appropriate gift for an organization of that size,'' Mr. Kaiser said, adding that 18 of those trustees left. ''We found 18 new ones, and it completely changed the history of Ailey.''
 Mr. Kaiser taught in New York University's arts administration master's program from 1992 to 1998. At the Kennedy Center, he started an arts management institute in 2001. The next year, he started advising groups promoting the arts among minority communities. 
 In his book, Mr. Levy said that fund-raising was easy when thought of as helping groups get the support they need to do important work. ''That is not a burden,'' he writes. ''It is a pleasure. That is not a job. It is acalling.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TURNAROUND: Michael M. Kaiser has weathered plenty of economic storms.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 VOICE OF EXPERIENCE: Reynold Levy details how to raise funds in hard times.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%)

COMPANY: JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (57%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (56%); THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (55%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (55%)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (58%); JWA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



477 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: In Crisis, Remote Access

BYLINE: By JULIE BICK

 BODY:
RUI LOPES'S first impression of Banda Aceh, Indonesia, after the 2004 tsunami was chaos. Bone-jarringly rough roads led to a hastily assembled field office, where Mr. Lopes, the senior technical director of Save the Children, learned that the communications infrastructure, along with just about everything else, had been destroyed. 
 Aside from a few satellite phones and even fewer working cellphones, the area was isolated as relief workers scrambled to assess the security situation and address the vast humanitarian needs. 
 On the ground, Mr. Lopes unpacked a contraption made of circuits, chips and wires, pointed it at the sky and rolled out a solar mat, which turns sunlight into energy, to power it up. Aid workers plugged their laptops into the device, which offered the first stable Internet connection since the disaster had hit a week earlier. 
 Assessment reports and supply requests streamed out. Photographs went to news outlets to help spread awareness of the situation. Plans to coordinate agencies came in from abroad. 
 This device, called a Network Relief Kit, weighs less than four pounds and ''is a grand slam invention,'' Mr. Lopes said. ''It's portable, light and brings the outside world to the most remote, disconnected places.''
 It was created by NetHope, a collaboration of nonprofit organizations and technology companies working to improve humanitarian aid around the world. Founded in 2001, NetHope, which is based near Washington, has engaged in relief efforts after natural disasters like storms and earthquakes, as well as armed conflict. Charitable donors often prefer lean organizations with low overhead so that most of their contributions go directly to help the needy. As a result, however, nonprofits have chronically underfinanced information technology departments, which oversee operations like networking, computers and satellite phones. 
 NetHope's growing consortium tries to bridge this gap by connecting major high-tech companies like Cisco, Microsoft, Accenture, Intel and Google to humanitarian and conservation agencies worldwide.
 When there is a need to create a database of disaster victims or to connect to distant workers, the consortium offers technical expertise, equipment, software and money. The consortium participants also share ideas. 
 Along with providing equipment and procedures in disaster areas, NetHope creates technology and communications solutions based on the needs of its member organizations. 
 One NetHope project to come from this shared vision was the installation of hundreds of satellite dishes across Africa. Member organizations set up the dishes, which are available to area relief agencies for Internet access and other communications needs.
 ''That's just more productivity per dollar,'' Mr. Lopes said. NetHope agencies have also collaborated on negotiations with technology vendors to reduce costs and create a shared computer help desk.
 The visionary behind NetHope is Ed Granger-Happ, the organization's chairman. As the chief information officer of Save the Children, he watched as his tight budget revealed more limitations whenever a disaster struck a poor country and created enormous needs. He knew that chief information officers at other relief organizations faced the same problem, with each crisis sending them scrambling to petition corporations for donations of communications equipment and other technology. 
 ''We were all going separately to the same companies, and we were all good causes helping the same people in the same parts of the world,'' he said. ''It just made more sense for us to band together and work as one group.'' 
 Apparently the technology community agreed. In 2001, talent and networking supplies came from Cisco, and each year more relief agencies and technology donors joined the effort. In 2005, NetHope received a $40 million software donation from Microsoft. 
 NetHope now serves 25 nongovernmental organizations that provide disaster relief and other humanitarian and conservation services to millions of people in 180 countries. These include the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, World Vision and Mercy Corps. Noncorporate donors include the Rockefeller and W. K. Kellogg foundations.
 ''Built into the DNA of NetHope is the idea that our members should constantly be innovating and sharing so they can help deliver more impact at lower cost,'' said Jack Levy, a NetHope global program director and senior adviser. 
 And that productivity is needed. Mr. Granger-Happ estimates that businesses often spend about $13,000 a year per desktop on technology while charitable organizations may spend only about $2,800 a year per desktop. NetHope has become an extension of its agencies' information technology departments, he said.
 Save the Children, to meet its goal of doubling the number of children it helps, cannot easily raise twice the money or hire twice the staff in the current economic climate. ''So we need to improve our technology and let the same work force administer twice the program reach,'' Mr. Granger-Happ said.
 For instance, aid agencies are collecting data on an agricultural problem bedeviling farmers growing the cassava plant in Africa. NetHope and one of its agencies developed an electronic data collection system to replace pencils and paper used on farms, and they plan to share the innovation with other agencies that can work with other farmers. 
 These efforts have brought greater efficiency to humanitarian efforts across the globe, said Mr. Levy, but more is to be done. Services like procurement and call centers can be shared using technology. 
 Over the past few decades, I.T. has revolutionized the private sector, significantly raising productivity, said Mr. Levy, adding, ''We need to apply all that we have learned there to the humanitarian issues of the developing world.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOCAL CONNECTIONS: Joe Simmons, above, of NetHope, training field workers in West Africa to use a mobile communications kit. Rui Lopes in Westport, Conn., with the solar-powered apparatus.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); CHARITIES (70%); BUDGETS (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%); INTEL CORP (54%); ACCENTURE PLC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); ACN (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) INDONESIA (92%); AFRICA (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



478 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1783 words

HEADLINE: Bracing For Lean Times Ahead

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM. 
James Freed contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SO what's the fallout for philanthropy?
 Given the financial tremors that have obliterated wealth and driven the economy deep into the doldrums, will charitable giving, which reached record levels in the United States over the past decade, show sharp declines? Will foundations, faced with shrunken endowments, scale back their grant-making? Will individual charities, squeezed by reductions in both private and public money, be forced to cut programs?
 In short: was philanthropy, like the housing and financial markets, riding a bubble that has finally burst? So far, few fund-raising experts or nonprofit leaders are predicting an implosion in giving, a long fall from the more than $300 billion that was donated last year in the United States. But nonetheless they acknowledge that their world has changed and are preparing for leaner times. It's more a matter of when, not if.
 ''I just don't see how we can have these conversations out of one side of our mouths about people's cratering 401(k) plans and sinking home values and then say there isn't going to be some sort of big negative kick to the giving stream, as well,'' said Lucy Bernholz, president of Blueprint Research and Design, a nonprofit consulting company in San Francisco. 
 Some experts, like Robert F. Sharpe Jr., president of the Sharpe Group, a fund-raising firm in Memphis, point to historical data showing that swings in giving are not nearly as severe as broader economic ups and downs, and that during some of the worst times philanthropy remained strong. ''Just about any way you look at it, the Depression was one of the best periods for charitable fund-raising,'' Mr. Sharpe said.
 Patrick M. Rooney, interim executive director of the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University, said the most reliable indicator of individual giving was Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, with a 100-point jump translating into an additional $1.5 billion of philanthropy from people who report donations on tax forms. ''It works just the same way on the downside,'' he said. 
 Using that rule of thumb and the price of the index on Nov. 6, such individual giving would drop this year by about $8.7 billion from an estimated $187 billion, according to Mr. Rooney. That's far less than financial markets have fallen.
 Mr. Rooney warned, however, that the timing of the market collapse could exacerbate the impact on giving. ''If there's a precipitous drop in January or February, no one pays much attention, but many households started thinking about their year-end charitable giving just as they got their third-quarter statements -- and they could bet their fourth-quarter statements were going to be worse,'' he said.
 The effects of the downturn are already being seen among big and small donors, some experts say. Recent surveys in Indianapolis and Memphis by the Center on Philanthropy show that households with an annual income of less than $50,000 are likely to stop giving as a result of the downturn.
 But Ms. Bernholz said it was difficult to gauge how individual donors, who collectively account for 88 percent of philanthropy in the United States, would behave in the current financial climate. ''Bill Gates or the Google guys, single-handedly they could throw out an enormous gift or so and keep things afloat,'' Ms. Bernholz said. ''That's a bit of an exaggeration, but we have so many new, big donors these days, and we don't know how that will affect things.''
 Many big donors have seen their wealth decline sharply. Maurice R. Greenberg, for example, the former chief executive of A.I.G. who has given $700 million to various institutions, has lost about $2.8 billion and seen the value of the assets in two foundations he controls decline by billions. 
 ''Obviously, that's going to curtail significantly the giving that we have been doing in the past,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''You can't give what you have lost.''
 He said he and his family planned to live up to commitments they had made, although they might extend the time they had to complete gifts and he still planned to make charitable gifts. ''We will either shorten the list or just cut back on the amounts given to each of the beneficiaries,'' he said. Many smaller donors work through donor-advised funds, which are giving accounts established through brokerages like Vanguard and Fidelity. Once money is committed to those accounts, it must be used for philanthropy. So at Charles Schwab, for instance, the more than $1 billion that flowed into its charitable fund last year will at some point flow to charity, regardless of what happens in the markets and economy. 
 Kimberly Wright-Violich, president of the Schwab Charitable Fund, said that contributions by individuals to their donor-advised funds ''hit a brick wall in September.'' She said such contributions fell by 43 percent from July through October. But she said she expected some stabilization to occur by the end of the year.
 Dennis Marlo, a former banker who lives near Philadelphia, established a donor-advised fund when he retired and has used it to give roughly $50,000 annually to colleges, hospitals, the United Way and other organizations. 
 Mr. Marlo plans to maintain that giving level, but as a member of several nonprofit boards he has seen other donors struggle. ''I have heard from other donors that they are still willing to give, but that the market conditions are significantly limiting their ability to give the amount they expected to give just a few months ago,'' he said. 
 While individual giving is hard to forecast, giving by institutional foundations should remain level or rise over the next year. That's because foundations typically achieve the legally mandated 5 percent annual payout rate using a three- or five-year rolling average. Thus, next year's budget in many cases will reflect at least two years, 2006 and 2007, of solid growth in assets.
 That said, many foundations have experienced declines in their assets that at the very least will affect their giving in 2010 and have already resulted in decisions to postpone new programs. 
 ''Our normal grant budget will continue unless some other shoe drops,'' said Vartan Gregorian, president and chief executive of the Carnegie Corporation, which has seen its assets drop about 15 percent in its last fiscal year. ''We will meet our existing and planned commitments, but anything else will depend on what happens in the markets.''
 Mr. Gregorian said he had asked program directors to create budgets that anticipated cutbacks of 10 and 20 percent, in case the foundation's assets continued to erode. The Skillman Foundation, which works to improve the lives of children living in southwest Detroit, could see its assets drop to about $450 million or $460 million by the end of this year, from $580 million at the beginning, said Carol Goss, the foundation's president and chief executive. 
 Using those estimates, Skillman's budget for grants in 2009 would be roughly $19 million, compared with $27.5 million this year. That would leave the foundation with about $9 million for new grants after meeting existing commitments. ''We will cut back our costs administratively, and we won't make as many new grants as anticipated,'' Ms. Goss said.
 Detroit and other major American cities have come to rely as well on corporate philanthropy, which has been highly dependent on corporate performance in the past. The financial services industry is the second-largest source of corporate donations after pharmaceutical companies, which largely make their contributions in kind. 
 Charles Moore, the executive director of the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy, said he expected financial services companies to continue their philanthropy, though perhaps at reduced levels in the near term. ''An interesting example is Lehman Brothers -- the bank has certainly lost its former standing,'' he said. ''However, the funds in the company foundation remain and, therefore, the Lehman Brothers Foundation will continue to fulfill its community commitments at this time.''
 Frederick W. Smith, the founder and chief executive of Federal Express, said the company would work to maintain its giving programs even though business was off somewhat this fall. ''I don't think philanthropy in the corporate world will go away,'' he said. ''We and a lot of other companies are convinced that the public expects big corporations to be good citizens, and so it has become part of smart business.''
 Charities that receive individual and corporate gifts say that hard times are already beginning.
 Roxanne Spillett, chief executive of Boys and Girls Clubs of America, said that each of the local clubs she had talked to -- there are 4,300 around the country -- was reporting higher demand for services. Additionally, clubs are grappling with rising insurance premiums and higher energy costs, she said. ''If you asked me a month ago, I might have said Newark is crashing, but clubs in another city, say, Chicago, are doing pretty well,'' she said. ''Now, uniformly, club leaderships say they are bracing for a very tough end to '08 and a tough '09 and even beyond.''
 Ms. Spillett said the national organization was increasing the number of ''asks'' it makes to donors, increasing its stewardship calls to top givers and increasing face-to-face meetings with contributors. It is putting together a white paper to advise clubs on potential cuts and stepped up fund-raising.
 The national organization relies on corporate donations, and Ms. Spillett said she had seen some reluctance among those donors to make multiyear commitments, and some may be reducing their gifts. 
 Jennifer L. Howse, president and chief executive of the March of Dimes, said the group's investments began declining late last year, which caused it to realign its portfolio. ''We beefed up our defensive positions and diversified more, and so far our investments are running at about half the losses you're seeing in the S. & P.,'' Dr. Howse said.
 The organization has instituted a hiring freeze, reduced grants for new research and trimmed 5 percent of costs out of its operations across the board. 
 It makes almost half of its revenue through the March for Babies walk-a-thon, and funds generated by that event were flat compared to last year. The rest come from small contributions -- Dr. Howse said a $10,000 gift is large for the March of Dimes. 
 ''The impact is probably going to be more serious next year than it is this year,'' she said. ''But I'm going to ask our volunteers to aim for a 3 percent increase in funds raised because we have confidence that the American people will continue to support our life-saving mission.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Giving section on Nov. 11 about the impact of the economic crisis on philanthropy described one form of individual giving, the donor-advised fund, incompletely. The funds can be established by many types of organizations, including brokerage companies, community foundations and charities. They are not established solely by brokerage companies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CUTBACKS: Jennifer L. Howse, president of the March of Dimes, says the group has a hiring freeze and has reduced grants for research.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 FEELING THE CRUNCH: Children doing their homework and playing games at Cambridge Park in Bristol, Conn., one of 4,300 Boys and Girls Clubs of America, which is reliant on corporate donors and may see a decline in contributions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HISTORY (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); US 401K PLANS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF AMERICA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



479 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2302 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: NOVEMBER 11, 2008

 BODY:
International
 TRYING TO RESCUE CULTURE
 Of a Rural Region of India
 Students in the agrarian countryside of western India are toiling to produce dictionaries for the languages with which they grew up, but are scarcely spoken elsewhere in the world. They are trying to preserve the culture of the region as a swelling class of Indian aspirants from small towns and villages flees to the cities and embraces English. PAGE A6
 BOMBING KILLS 28 IN BAGHDAD
 Twenty-eight people were killed in a synchronized triple bombing in a main street of a mixed Sunni and Shiite neighborhood in Baghdad in the morning, when the street was bustling with street cleaners and commuters heading to work. The bombings, along with a suicide attack in Baquba, seem to be a rise in violence after a relatively quiet few weeks in Iraq. PAGE A6 
 VENEZUELA'S REVOLUTIONARY TOURISM
 With President Hugo Chavez's government flush with cash, Venezuela has attracted sympathetic members of the chattering classes from all over the world and has become a hot spot for leftists. Officials have organized international encounters for philosophers, poets women's rights advocates, and the government spokesmen of nonaligned countries. PAGE A8
 EUROPEANS TO RESUME RUSSIA TALKS
 The European Union said it would resume negotiations with Russia that were stopped in the aftermath of Russia's war with Georgia. It was a significant step toward normalizing ties with Moscow, and the decision to resume talks was a clear acknowledgment of how much Europe and Russia need each other economically, especially as the global financial crisis reorders priorities. PAGE A11
 GEORGIANS FLEE BORDER VILLAGE
 Many of the residents of Perevi, a remote mountain village in Georgia, have begun fleeing as Russian troops continued to withdraw from the town, on the boundary of South Ossetia and claimed by the Ossetians and the Russians. And though there have been no reports of violence in Perevi, tensions continue to rise. PAGE A10
 A RESCUE PLAN FOR THE MALDIVES
 Mohamed Nasheed, the newly elected president of the Maldives, a chain of 1,200 islands in the Indian Ocean, is planning to establish an investment fund with some of its earnings from tourism to buy a haven for its citizens should global warming raise sea levels at a dangerous pace. ''We are just about three feet above sea level,'' a spokesman for the president said. ''So any sea level rise could have a devastating effect on the people of the Maldives and their very survival.'' PAGE A10
 national
 BISHOPS CHEER OBAMA'S VICTORY,
 But Criticize Him on Crucial Issues
 The president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops told his fellow prelates to ''rejoice'' at the election of an African- American president but confront him over his support for abortion rights. His remarks were a repudiation of the ''common good'' approach to the abortion issue that President-elect Barack Obama honed in the recent election. PAGE A19
 EFFORTS FOR GAY RIGHTS IN UTAH
 Leaders of Utah's largest group supporting equal rights for gay people announced a proposal to increase the rights of same-sex couples in the state, saying they saw a silver lining in the passage last week of a same-sex marriage ban in California. PAGE A19
 BOY CHARGED WITH MURDER
 An 8-year-old Arizona boy charged with premeditated murder in the deaths of his father and another man shot each victim at least four times with a .22-caliber rifle, methodically stopping and reloading, prosecutors said. Investigators have found no evidence of abuse nor evidence that the boy had had disciplinary problems at school or shown signs that he was troubled. PAGE A16
 FLORIDA SCALES BACK ON SUGAR DEAL
 Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida and the U.S. Sugar Corporation are close to an agreement that would scale back the state's ambitious purchase of the company to gain a wide swath of land for Everglades restoration, said environmental groups close to the negotiations. The revamped purchase would be a step down from the initial $1.75 billion offer that Florida made in June to buy all of U.S. Sugar and put the company out of business. PAGE A14
 NASA LOSES MARS LANDER
 The Phoenix Mars lander is dead. Mission managers said that they had not heard from the NASA spacecraft for a week and that they thought it had probably fallen quiet for good. ''We're actually ceasing operations, declaring an end to mission operations at this point,'' said the project manager. PAGE A16
 STUDY OF REPATRIATION OF UNINSURED
 The American Medical Association's House of Delegates voted to undertake a study of the repatriation of uninsured immigrant patients by hospitals. The California doctors acted in response to a New York Times article about a Florida hospital's deportation of a brain-injured Guatemalan. PAGE A21
 obituaries
 PREACHER ROE, 92
 The folksy left-hander from the Ozarks became a star pitcher for the Brooklyn Dodgers, featuring superb control and a spitball he belatedly confessed to throwing. PAGE B12
 BERNARD W. ROGERS, 87
 The intellectual and opinionated former chief of staff of the United States Army and commander of NATO developed strategies to help his service adjust to an all-volunteer force and new generations of weapons. PAGE B13
 New York
 WHEN YOU NEED A FLU SHOT,
 Even at Midnight
 The city that never sleeps -- midnight movie screenings, music stores that close at 2 a.m., crowded subway trains as the sun rises -- now has primary medical care for night owls. A new clinic run by Beth Israel Medical Center and situated in the Chelsea neighborhood offers the routine services of a general practitioner, like cholesterol tests, allergy treatment, breast exams and diabetes maintenance. PAGE A22
 MAN SLAIN WHILE DELIVERING FOOD
 A worker for a charity that brought food to poor homebound seniors was shot and killed in the lobby of an apartment building in Brownsville, Brooklyn, while finishing a delivery. The police did not know if the shooting was part of a robbery and said they were reviewing footage from surveillance cameras. Page A23
 Business
 JUDGE FINDS THAT AGENCY 
 Did Not Mishandle Inquiry
 An administrative law judge at the Securities and Exchange Commission said agency officials did not mishandle an investigation of possible insider-trading at Pequot Capital Management, a major hedge fund. An earlier report by Senate investigators and agency inspectors accused commission officials of bungling the Pequot investigation and then retaliating by firing an S.E.C. lawyer who criticized how the investigation was being carried out. PAGE B3
 A.I.G. POSTS $25 BILLION LOSS
 The problems of the American International Group, the troubled insurance company, keep growing larger and costlier to fix. A.I.G. lost $25 billion in the third quarter and said it had secured a new $150 billion government assistance package to stop the bleeding -- just months after the Federal Reserve gave the company an $85 billion line of credit. PAGE B1
 PREDICTING A FLURRY OF MERGERS
 The powerful lawyer David Boies is anticipating a wave of mergers and acquisitions, which he says will consolidate some of the biggest names in the country. Why? He says that no matter how much an Obama administration would like to regulate the markets more tightly, it will be too politically unpalatable to do so. ''Antitrust theory is theoretical, losing jobs and plants are real,'' he said. Andrew Ross Sorkin, Dealbook. PAGE B1
 CITI OFFERS TO EASE MORTGAGE TERMS
 Citigroup is the latest in a growing list of financial institutions allowing customers to adjust the terms of their mortgages. The company unveiled a program meant to help thousands of people meet their monthly payments, and bank executives hoped it would reduce lossesby hundreds of millions of dollars. Page B6
 Arts
 A 20-HOUR VISIT,
 With Spanky and the Gang
 The ''Our Gang'' series of short movies was in production between 1922 and 1944, with a constantly changing cast of child actors. Eighty of the 220 films appear in a new 20-hour DVD set, ''The Little Rascals: The Complete Collection,'' which traces the adventures of Spanky, Alfalfa and the gang from their more loose, improvisational beginnings to their later, less freewheeling studio work. PAGE C1
 AN AMBITIOUS HODGEPODGE
 James Levine's work is defined by eclecticism: he strings together for his players in the Met Chamber Ensemble at Carnegie Hall both modern music and standard repertory fare. Steve Smith writes that while connecting Mozart to Schumann and Schoenberg and finally Boulez is not all that difficult in the abstract, the pieces that made up their performance at Weill Recital Hall on Sunday were so different in temperament and constitution that one had to wonder what made him think to link them. PAGE C5
 Revisiting 'The Magic Garden' C3
 Science Times
 THE PROMISE AND POWER OF RNA IN THE FIGHT AGAINST GENETIC ILLNESS
 It is akin to turning off the faucet instead of mopping the floor: a powerful new approach to fighting bad cholesterol, called RNA interference, or RNAi. RNAi is an application of a string of scientific discoveries that are showing that RNA, once considered a mere messenger boy for DNA, actually helps run the show. And the impact on treating genetic illness may be enormous. PAGE D1 
 A GROWING CROWD OF MEANINGS
 What does ''gene'' mean? By the traditional definition, genes are those lineups of DNA letters that serve as instructions for piecing together the body's proteins, but the closer scientists look, the less instructive they seem. Scientists are also learning that many of the gene-free regions of our DNA are far more extroverted than previously believed. PAGE D2 
 TERRAIN EVOLVES FOR ASSISTED SUICIDE
 This past Election Day, Washington joined Oregon in making physician-assisted suicide is legally available to the terminally ill. But the question of whether doctors should help patients die is far more nuanced than it was 11 years ago, when the measure in Oregon took effect. Other options have gained acceptance, Dr. Timothy E. Quill, a leading expert on end-of-life issues, said. PAGE D8 
 Sports
 CROSSING THE LINE. 
 Or Maybe Not. Or ...
 That computer-generated yellow line that marks the line of scrimmage in televised N.F.L. games was the source of a minor controversy during the Giants' game against the Eagles on Sunday. Eli Manning appeared to have gone beyond the line before uncorking a pass to a receiver. But also, the line, it seemed, was drawn in the wrong place, leading to a prolonged disagreement between the commentators Al Michaels and John Madden. Richard Sandomir, TV Sports. PAGE B14
 ROLE REVERSAL IN PITTSBURGH
 The high-scoring Indianapolis Colts outlasted the imposing Pittsburgh Steelers with their defense, which wasn't supposed to happen. And just in time, too: the win over their division rivals catapults the Colts back into the thick of the playoff race. Daunte Culpepper emerged from a brief retirement to have a dreadful first game with the equally dreadful Detroit Lions, and Joe Flacco and Matt Ryan could be the first pair of rookie quarterbacks to start for playoff teams in the same season. N.F.L. Fast Forward. PAGE B17
 QUESTIONING BASEBALL'S DRUG TESTS
 Three hours into a conference held by Major League Baseball on human growth hormone, the question of the day emerged when officials from the commissioner's office and the players union wondered aloud: how effective the current blood test for human growth hormone is if no one has tested positive? PAGE B15
 Giving
 LOOKING FOR FOOD AID, 
 And Finding None
 As the economy slows down, food pantries have seen a surge of people arriving at their doors for meals -- at a time when fewer are donating food. Many groups are turning away the hungry, and the strain is expected to become worse if the economic troubles continue, as expected. PAGE F1 
 CHANGING HOW RESEARCH IS DONE
 Dozens of foundations aim to eliminate the world of one disease or another, but those diseases remain stubbornly uncured. However, the Michael J. Fox foundation has taken the reins of Parkinson's disease research the way few other foundations have: demanding accountability and information-sharing that is almost unheard of in the broad scientific community. As a result, it has become the most credible voice on Parkinson's research in the world. PAGE F1
 Editorial
 IT'S ABOUT THE MORTGAGES
 Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson appears tolerant of, or powerless against, a White House that remains opposed to direct government action to prevent foreclosures -- a program that is essential to keep hundreds of thousands of Americans in their homes and to head off an even deeper financial catastrophe. PAGE A24
 PROTECTING MR. MUGABE
 We had hoped that political leaders in southern Africa would finally resolve Zimbabwe's political crisis at their summit meeting last weekend. Instead, they made it worse. PAGE A24
 A DEATH IN PATCHOGUE
 There has been a possible lynching in a New York suburb. This should be more than enough to force this country to acknowledge the bitter chill that has overcome Latinos in these days of rage against illegal immigration. PAGE A24
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 It's been only a week since the election defeat, but the battle lines already have been drawn in the fight over the future of conservatism. PAGE A25
 BOB HERBERT
 With so much attention focused on the banks and Wall Street, there is a danger that the people suffering most in the economic downturn -- the poor and the young -- will be overlooked. PAGE A25
 REMEMBERING THE WAR
 In an Op-Ed article for Veterans Day, Alexander Watson, the author of ''Enduring the Great War,'' writes about the differences in the ways the combatant nations commemorate World War I, and what it tells us about their societies today. PAGE A25

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); WOMEN (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); MOUNTAINS (63%); ISLANDS & REEFS (61%); OCEANS (61%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); ABORTION (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%); HUGO CHAVEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (93%); GEORGIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); MALDIVES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



480 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Colleges Struggle to Preserve Financial Aid

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
FOR years, as the stock market roared, educational endowments swelled, helping private secondary schools and colleges provide more financial aid, expand and attract better faculty. But with the financial markets in crisis, those days are over.
 Today educational institutions are cutting spending, delaying projects and holding off on hiring. While many schools and colleges say their commitment to helping families pay the costs of education will not waver, some experts maintain that as investments shrink and donations fall, some institutions will be forced to cut back on financial aid.
 Morton Schapiro, president of Williams College in Massachusetts, which has long had a commitment to accepting students without considering their financial situation, said he doubted that all colleges with such full need-blind policies would be able to hold to them. 
 ''The major dial you turn for most financial crises is that you admit more students who can pay, as a way of increasing revenues,'' Mr. Schapiro said. ''With the tremendous decline in wealth, I think fewer people will hold on to needs blind.'' 
 Molly Corbett Broad, president of the American Council of Education, a group of 1,800 public and private colleges, said the problems would be worse where endowments are smaller and enrollments larger, like at some public universities. ''The farther down the food chain you go in terms of endowment per student,'' she said, ''the harder it will be to sustain need-blind admissions.''
 One of the few college presidents speaking publicly about making some adjustment is Douglas Bennett of Earlham College in Indiana. About 18 percent of its students are from families with less than $60,000 in income and receive financial aid.
 ''If you are truly need-blind, you can go broke,'' Mr. Bennett said bluntly during a telephone interview. ''It is like writing a blank check to the world.''
 The relative share of financial aid that is picked up by the government is declining as well, he added. As the burden is shifted to families and institutions, Earlham is trying to figure out what to do. The college is particularly concerned about students that it accepts and enrolls but whose financial needs it may not be able to meet. 
 Mr. Bennett said Earlham, which had a $350 million endowment at the end of June, was considering limiting its need-blind admissions policy to three-quarters of the class. The college would then know how much it had committed in financial aid and would be able to take that into account in admitting the remaining 25 percent.
 Endowment management at most colleges involves a ''smoothing strategy'' that tries to blend spending over good years and bad in the hope of avoiding abrupt layoffs or other cuts if the endowment falls precipitously.
 Though endowments generally pay out about 5 percent of their assets annually, they often calculate the amount on an average of the previous three years, or other formulas. So in a rising market, colleges appear to be giving away less than 5 percent of the current endowment value; in a falling market, they appear to be giving away more.
 A prolonged bear market would be likely to depress returns or even create more losses. Contributions from alumni might also decline, putting even more pressure on endowments just as the colleges need more financing from them.
 For the moment, colleges with heftier endowments say they can weather the storms. In late October, Anthony Marx, president of Amherst College, posted a letter on the college Web site that said the endowment had fallen 25 percent since June 30, the end of fiscal 2008, when it stood at $1.7 billion. Still, Mr. Marx wrote, the commitment to financial aid would not be scaled back, although Amherst would postpone a renovation project and would review plans for new hires more stringently. 
 But the new financial realities mean that ''every school is looking at what they can cut and what they can reallocate,'' said Steven Rattner, a managing principal of the Quadrangle Group and acting chairman of Brown University's investment committee. 
 ''Nobody thinks the market will turn around and go back to do what it did before,'' he said. ''That means everyone is having to plan for a more difficult and turbulent financial environment to bring our expenses in line with resources.''
 Everywhere, the goal is to keep entry to colleges accessible. ''Just as schools have less money, the families need more,'' Mr. Rattner said. ''While they are all looking to trim fat, the needs-blind issue is seen as muscle.''
 As part of a $1.4 billion fund-raising campaign, Brown is seeking $400 million for financial aid. Ronald Vanden Dorpel, senior vice president for advancement, said the university tells potential donors that such gifts let Brown admit the best and most diverse students -- ''whomever we want without looking at their ability to pay.''
 During freshman weekend at Williams last month, Mr. Schapiro told families that if their financial circumstances had changed, the college wanted to know and would try to accommodate their needs.
 The college has 2,000 students, and ''I got about 12 calls from families that told us they might need more help,'' said Mr. Schapiro, who is also president of the 568 Presidents' Group, 30 colleges that have agreed to admit all American students on a needs-blind basis.
 Mr. Schapiro has already alerted the Williams community about other cutbacks. In a letter several weeks ago, he said the endowment budget had been predicated on an annual increase over the long term of 8 percent; last year, Williams's endowment was down one-tenth of 1 percent. He also warned that Williams would have to think about the impact of the roiling economy on giving.
 Williams has decided to delay the completion of a sports field and a library. That will save money, Mr. Schapiro said, and avoid the need to borrow. In the current credit crunch, he noted, ''the preferential interest rates once afforded to schools are temporarily gone.'' 
 ''We have invested in things such as housing and psychological services,'' he said. ''And we are going to have to allow attrition to give up some staff. The days of adding lots more staff for these purposes are over.'' 
 In California, Stanford University is looking at 5 percent cuts across the board, slashing $45 million from its $800 million basic operating budget, according to Lisa Lapin, a campus spokeswoman. She said that Stanford was planning on modest and selective salary increases next year but that its commitment to financial aid was firm, even as requests for it rise. 
 Roughly half of Stanford's $120 million in financial aid, which helps 77 percent of the undergraduate body, came from the endowment in fiscal 2007, Ms. Lapin said, and maintaining access to Stanford for top students, regardless of costs, remains a top priority.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BELT-TIGHTENING: At Amherst College in Massachusetts, the endowment has fallen 25 percent in four months, says Anthony Marx, the president, center, speaking with parents, alumni and trustees on campus, above, and in a meeting, left, last month. Financial aid will not be scaled back, he said, but a renovation project has been delayed.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); LAYOFFS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



481 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Time Inc. Seeks Volunteers For Job Cuts at Magazines

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Editors on Monday asked for about 100 volunteers to give up editorial staff jobs at Time, People, Sports Illustrated and a few other Time Inc. magazines, and the company announced the elimination of a similar number of jobs in its business operations. 
 The cuts are the first steps toward what Time Inc., the nation's largest magazine publisher, has said will be the elimination of about 600 jobs worldwide, most of them at its 24 magazines in the United States. They apply to some of the biggest and most prominent publications in the business, underscoring the magazine industry's steep financial decline this year.
 More layoffs are expected in the next few days.
 The company, a unit of Time Warner, said on Monday that it would eliminate 92 jobs in consumer marketing -- the divisions that try to bolster sales of the magazines. The consumer marketing departments of individual magazines will be folded into a central operation.
 The call for volunteers to take a severance package applies to a relatively small part of the company's work force: writers, editors, photographers and researchers at a handful of magazines who are represented by the Newspaper Guild. Those magazines include Time, People, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money. Terms of the severance were not disclosed.
 In memorandums to the magazine staffs, managers made it clear that if the number of volunteers was not sufficient by the end of this month, layoffs would follow. Executives also warned of additional layoffs in nonunion departments of those and other magazines.
 Hardest hit in the first round is the group that includes Sports Illustrated, Sports Illustrated Kids and Golf magazines. In a memorandum to his staff, Terry McDonell, managing editor of Sports Illustrated, asked for 40 people to leave voluntarily, out of an editorial staff at the magazine group of about 250 people.
 ''Cost cutting is always painful, even if it can be justified by economic realities,'' Mr. McDonell said in an e-mail message.
 Time magazine asked for 20 volunteers, out of about 250 news employees. People asked for 23, out of an editorial staff of more than 200, and it encouraged other employees to ask for severance, too, or volunteer to drop to a four-day workweek.
 Fortune and Money did not specify to employees how many volunteers they needed, but company executives said the goal was more than 20 people.
 Last week, Time Warner reported that in the third quarter, Time Inc. generated operating income of $162 million, down 35.5 percent from the quarter a year ago. Revenue was more than $1.1 billion, down 6.8 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); WRITERS (79%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (69%); GOLF (64%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



482 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Lab Is Part of City's Goal to Be a Biotech Center

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
On the top floor of a hulking 90-year-old building on Brooklyn's western waterfront, plasterers and electricians are preparing what city officials hope will be an economic antidote to the implosion of the financial services industry. 
 In a cavernous warehouse built as a military supply depot during World War I, medical scientists will soon be searching for a vaccine to fight the spread of AIDS. Their laboratory, scheduled for an official opening on Wednesday, will be the first tenant of a section of the Brooklyn Army Terminal that the city has reserved for bioscience companies and organizations.
 The center is the newest frontier in the city's long-running campaign to make New York a capital for the biotechnology industry and in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's efforts to reduce the city's economic dependence on Wall Street. 
 The urgency of that effort has only increased as some of the biggest banks in New York have collapsed or laid off hundreds of employees, raising fears that the city's leading industry may permanently shrink. 
 ''This is a down payment on an industry that we think is going to be a major tax generator for both the city and the state for many years,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 So far, the city has invested more than $35 million to build or renovate office and lab space for bioscience ventures. About one-third of that is going toward the new quarters for the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative in Brooklyn. The state has pledged an additional $48 million to convert 500,000 square feet of the Brooklyn Army Terminal into space for biotechnology firms.
 The Brooklyn project is a prelude to a much more ambitious initiative: the development of the East River Science Park, a $700 million complex under construction on city property adjacent to New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. The science park, with more than 1 million square feet of office and lab space between East 28th and 29th Streets, is scheduled to be completed in 2010. 
 Although the metropolitan area has the highest concentration of medical science talent in the country, it lags far behind the Boston and San Francisco areas as a center for turning their ideas into products and services. 
 ''The academic medical centers that are here spin off about 20 companies per year and we're missing out on them,'' said Lenzie Harcum, vice president for biosciences at the Economic Development Corporation.
 Financiers from Silicon Valley have been picking off many of the most marketable ideas for new ventures and persuading their founders to set up shop in established biotech centers where operating costs are significantly lower than in New York City, like San Diego or Cambridge, Mass., local business leaders say.
 ''The joke here was that venture capitalists came into New York from the West Coast with the three M's -- the money, the management and the moving van -- and relocated them,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, an association of large employers that has invested in some biotech startups. ''They either went to the West Coast, some went to New Jersey, a lot went to Massachusetts, some to New Haven.''
 Ms. Wylde said New York's previous attempts to compete with those places lacked the necessary scale. She cited the Audubon Business and Technology Center, which Columbia University manages in upper Manhattan, as a prime example.
 The Audubon center was built in the early 1990s with about $11 million in city funds, according to economic development officials. Standing adjacent to the former site of the Audubon Ballroom, where Malcolm X was assassinated in 1965, it contains about 100,000 square feet of office and lab space for nascent biotech companies. 
 That is about one-tenth of what the city needs to attract a ''critical mass'' of biotech businesses, Ms. Wylde said. Having incubators, like the Audubon center and another at the State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn, known as SUNY Downstate, is helpful but not sufficient to keep growing companies in the city, she said. The scientists prefer to be in a cluster where they can share ideas and equipment, but the cost of operating in New York City has been prohibitive for many of them.
 ''Nobody wanted to start their company here because all they would have to do is move,'' Ms. Wylde said.
 The city is home to the headquarters of some big pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer, but most of their scientists work in labs in New Jersey or farther away. One exception to the rule is ImClone Systems, a company developing cancer treatments that set up research labs on Varick Street in Lower Manhattan in 1986 and grew quickly. 
 But ImClone's name was tarnished in 2002 when its founder, Samuel D. Waksal, was arrested, and later convicted, in an insider-trading scandal. Martha Stewart, who was a friend of Mr. Waksal, wound up in prison for lying about the circumstances of her sale of shares of ImClone stock. The company's continued presence in the city is in doubt because Eli Lilly, a large drug company based in Indiana, offered last month to buy ImClone for $6.5 billion.
 Retaining the next generation of ImClones is the goal behind the city's investment in the East River Science Park and the Brooklyn Army Terminal. The science park, being built by a California developer, will offer new space at competitive rates. The Brooklyn project is aimed at those outfits, like the AIDS vaccine initiative, that cannot afford Manhattan rent.
 Seth Berkley, president and chief executive of the AIDS initiative, said his nonprofit organization considered several alternatives around the region when it began to outgrow its space at SUNY Downstate. He estimated it would have cost at least $70 a square foot to move into the science park when it is finished, too much for a nonprofit operation. 
 ''When we negotiated with the city, we said, for the type of stuff we're doing that's not acceptable,'' Mr. Berkley said.
 The Economic Development Corporation was planning to renovate the south end of one of two huge buildings at the Army terminal as a bioscience center. But Mr. Berkley's group, known as IAVI, had a different idea: Because their labs required so much equipment for filtering air and venting chemical fumes, they wanted to take 36,000 square feet of the top floor on the north side of the building.
 There, they could install much of the infrastructure on the roof, allowing for maximum use of the floor space, said Stephen Kaminsky, the initiative's director of protein and analytical chemistry. Turning a building that once was the jumping-off point for soldiers headed overseas -- including Elvis Presley in 1958 -- into a state-of-the-art lab for testing various proteins that could kill the virus that causes AIDS was a challenge, Mr. Kaminsky said. But among the advantages, he said, is that the terminal is so sturdy that the scientists will not have to worry much about vibrations that could upset their experiments.
 The initiative is installing $3 million worth of scientific equipment, some of which was bought with money contributed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Mike Goldrich, the organization's chief operating officer, said. But it would not be staying in Brooklyn without the hefty financial assistance provided by the city.
 Along with the $12.5 million in public funds to fit out the space, the initiative received a 15-year lease that starts at a below-market rate of $16 per square foot. Only 30 to 40 people will work there at the outset, but city officials hope that number will double over time.
 They and the scientists hope that the new lab will not be alone in the terminal for long. Mr. Kaminsky said having other tenants in related fields would help to attract speakers for seminars on recent scientific advances. The vaccine researchers also hope there will be an area in the building to house the monkeys, rabbits and other small animals that would be needed for experiments. And, of course, it would help to have neighbors to borrow supplies from in a pinch.
 ''There's an advantage to having people who do the same things you do in the same place,'' Mr. Kaminsky said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); AIDS & HIV (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); HOSPITALS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); VACCINES (72%); WORLD WAR I (72%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008



483 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CARACAS JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Positions Itself As a Salon for the Left

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Thom Walker contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
The Nepalese Maoist smiled as he glanced around the lobby of the Hotel Alba Caracas. To his left, West African delegates to the World Meeting of Intellectuals and Artists in Defense of Humanity chatted in French. To his right, the Egyptian author of a book on President Hugo Chavez puffed on a cigarette. 
 ''This has been a most enjoyable forum, allowing us to learn from the glorious heritage of socialist revolution in Latin America,'' said the Maoist, Chandra Prasad Gajurel, 60, a Politburo member of the Communist Party of Nepal, which put an end to that country's monarchy in elections this year. 
 Mr. Gajurel joined some 200 other leftist thinkers from around the world who convened here for a few days in October to discuss transitions toward socialism, even as many people in advanced Western countries were losing sleep over the spreading financial crisis of global capitalism. 
 In hotel corridors where oilmen in business suits once hatched deals over glasses of whiskey, delegates in Birkenstocks and guayaberas discussed Marx and Antonio Gramsci, the leftist Italian writer. Such meetings have become a staple of life in Caracas, with Mr. Chavez's government flush, at least for now, with petrodollars that can be used to attract sympathetic members of the chattering classes the world over. 
 Officials here have organized international encounters for philosophers, women's rights advocates, the government spokesmen of nonaligned countries, poets and, in September, specialists in body painting. 
 Another event, Venezuela's annual international book fair, began with fanfare here last week with the theme, ''The book in the construction of Bolivarian socialism.'' That was a bit toned down from the previous year's fair, which had delegates pondering the question, ''The United States: a possible revolution?'' 
 Amid all the variety, few of these conferences offered as much optimism about shifting international events as the meeting for intellectuals a few weeks ago, which involved guided tours of Caracas's slums for the delegates and panel discussions examining the evolving financial crisis. 
 ''We must help the current capitalist model collapse, for on its own this will not happen,'' Jose Deniz Espinos, an economist from Madrid, told attendees. ''I do not know of one system that has collapsed on its own. For this reason, we must not succumb to euphoria.'' 
 The conference, like most of the others, was held in the Alba, a luxury hotel taken over by the government last year from the Hilton chain. It is this country's equivalent to the Hotel Habana Libre in Cuba: a drab complex once associated with American power that serves as a symbol of revolutionary change. 
 Not far from the welcome stand in the hotel lobby, the Alba's curio shop featured souvenir statues of Mr. Chavez for 315 bolivares, about $147 at the official exchange rate (about twice the black market rate). 
 Those on a tighter budget could also stroll outside, where sidewalk vendors could regularly be found hawking a range of Chavez-emblazoned knickknacks for under $10. For the more daring, there were T-shirts championing Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, the Venezuelan terrorist known as Carlos the Jackal, who is serving a life sentence in France.
 ''It is wonderful to be in Caracas,'' said Mostapha el-Gammal, 56, an Egyptian and author of a new book, ''Chavez: Charisma, Revolution, Dialectics.'' ''The city has some nice nature, and less traffic than in Cairo.''
 Revolutionary tourism notwithstanding, Mr. Gammal said a highlight of his trip was the opportunity to debate his book, which he said the Venezuelan government was planning to translate from the Arabic and publish here. ''Is Chavez a mere populist or a genuine revolutionary?'' he asked, rhetorically, in an interview. ''I dismiss the first idea.'' 
 And he got a call-out from Mr. Chavez himself when the president addressed the conference. ''Chavez spoke my name into the microphone and told me, 'Thank you,' '' said Mr. Gammal, beaming. 
 Venezuela's government also earns high marks from some foreign scholars for its creation of the Miranda International Center, a policy research outfit in a high-rise across the street from the Alba, and for prizes like the Liberator Prize for Critical Thinking. Franz J. Hinkelammert, a German-born theologian living in Costa Rica, was the first winner of the $150,000 prize in 2006. 
 The conferences, the prizes, the slum tours with a government security detail: it is all too much for Mr. Chavez's doubters, people like Fernando Mires, a Chilean historian and philosopher who was here for a separate conference at the Central University of Venezuela. 
 On his way out of town, Mr. Mires, 65, was detained by security forces and exhaustively interrogated about his visit before he was allowed to board the plane. Mr. Mires, an outspoken critic of Mr. Chavez, who described the incident in an article in a local newspaper, said he viewed the conference at the Alba with resignation. 
 ''Yesterday it was Mugabe or Castro; today it's Chavez,'' Mr. Mires said in a telephone interview. ''Many of the attendees to these events are emerging from political frustration and see a chance for their ideas in an impoverished country that has been democratized through intimidation.'' 
 Still, some in attendance at the Caracas conference seemed prepared to cast a critical gaze on their host, but maybe with a wink. 
 ''It's admirable, but there are also so many questions to see whether this process is sustainable,'' Vinod Raina, a theoretical physicist from India, said of Mr. Chavez's Venezuela. ''The important point is that he has taken on the mantle of crystallizing forces in opposition to the empire.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chandra Prasad Gajurel, center, a Nepalese Maoist, at a radio station in October while in Caracas, Venezuela, for a leftist meeting.
 International delegates to the meeting of leftist intellectuals looked at a Che Guevara poster at the pro-Chavez radio station. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); WOMEN (72%); POETRY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LOBBYING (58%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); NEPAL (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); CUBA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



484 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: As Transfer of Power Begins, Obamas Visit White House

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON; Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, received a warm welcome at the White House shortly before 2 p.m. Eastern time by the current occupant, President George W. Bush, a man with whom he expressed a sea of differences during the just-ended election campaign. When the president and Mrs. Bush greeted the Obamas at the driveway on the South Lawn, the women hugged and their husbands shook hands, with Mr. Obama using the two-handed greeting common among senators, with his left hand on Mr. Bush's right arm during the handshake. The two men were dressed almost identically in dark blue suits, white shirts and blue ties. Ms. Bush wore a brown suit, and Ms. Obama a burnt-orange dress. 
 A few minutes after the couples entered the White House together, Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama reemerged and strolled along the colonnade past the Rose Garden to the outer entrance to the Oval Office. Mr. Obama walked just at Mr. Bush's shoulder and appeared to be speaking animatedly, gesturing with both hands. Each of the men waved several times to reporters and others off camera. 
 While Ms. Bush showed Ms. Obama the White House, their husbands met for just over an hour in the Oval Office, discussing the transfer of power from Mr. Bush's conservative Republican administration to a presumably much more liberal Democratic leadership.
 Mr. Obama saw the Oval Office in person for the first time, just 10 weeks before he will make history by returning as its first black occupant. A physical reminder of the coming change was provided by construction equipment gathered in Lafayette Park across Pennsylvania Avenue from the north side of the White House. The equipment is soon to be put to work building glass-fronted, heated viewing stands where the Obama team will view the inaugural parade on Jan. 20. 
 As the capital swirled with talk of an expanded bailout package for the troubled American International Group, of unemployment figures that continue to swell, of deep trouble in the auto industry and the urgent financial summit to be convened later this week by Mr. Bush, some of the more pressing issues to be discussed by the two leaders on Monday afternoon seemed clear. 
 Similarly, two wars -- on which the president and president-elect differ considerably -- will demand careful and delicate coordination. As the Obamas were arriving at the White House, several hundred protesters on Pennsylvania Avenue chanted ''No More Wars'' as they waved signs condemning President Bush and Vice President Cheney.
 Mr. Obama, who does not plan to attend the financial summit, has said he expected a ''substantive conversation'' with Mr. Bush on Monday. Such first meetings are governed by no rules but are deeply immersed in tradition. Neither man was expected to issue any extended statement after the meeting, which is taking place unusually early in the transition period. 
 Josh Bolten, the president's chief of staff, said on Monday morning that the president and president-elect would meet without aides present. 
 ''I'm sure each of them will have a list of issues to go down,'' Mr. Bolten said during a televised interview with reporters from The Associated Press and The Washington Post. ''But I think that's something very personal to both of them. I know the president will want to convey to President-elect Obama his sense of how to deal with some of the most important issues of the day. But exactly how he does that, I don't know, and I don't think anybody will know.''
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama have had relatively little personal contact before now, and by some accounts, when they have met, there has been some awkwardness. 
 Mr. Bush told a friend during the 2008 Democratic primary race that he thought Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York was ''more experienced and more ready to be president.'' But the same friend, speaking anonymously to disclose his private conversation with the president, called Mr. Bush ''a realist'' who was ready to move on in the nation's interest; Mr. Bush's postelection comments have so far been gracious and have emphasized a cooperative approach. 
 For his part, Mr. Obama and his aides have missed no opportunity to remind Americans that they have only one president at a time.
 Even so, Mr. Obama and his team are moving expeditiously to plan the transition and a post-Inauguration agenda that aides said would probably include the quick reversal of some Bush policies, such as his restrictions on stem-cell research and on oil and gas drilling. 
 One thing is certain: The body language between the Obamas and the Bushes was being widely scrutinized and assessed, to see whether they appear to be comfortable working together or, as was the case with some past transition meetings, are straining just to appear polite. 
 Mr. Obama flew to Washington Monday morning from O'Hare International Airport in Chicago aboard a chartered American Airlines Boeing Super-80 jetliner. Ms. Obama flew to Washington separately, a spokeswoman for her said. 
 Having had a chance to size up their new accommodations, and those who have occupied them for eight years, the Obamas are scheduled to return immediately afterward to Chicago, where the work of transition will continue. Aides to Mr. Obama said that no Cabinet nominees would be announced this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); BAILOUTS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); DICK CHENEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



485 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: The Obama Presidency Takes Shape

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama Weighing What to Take On in First Months'' (front page, Nov. 9):
 As a nation, why do we assume that so many of our challenges are mutually exclusive? 
 You note that President-elect Barack Obama's advisers are questioning whether they can tackle such things as the fiscal crisis, energy independence and climate change at once. Aren't they linked? 
 If the federal government decides to bail out Detroit (despite the auto industry's shortsightedness in its dependence on gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s and its opposition to fuel-efficiency standards, to its own detriment), why not put conditions on the automakers that move us toward energy independence? 
 Let the federal government replace its vehicle fleet with thousands of new, Detroit-made hybrids or electric vehicles, and extend incentives to municipalities and rental car companies to buy new energy-efficient, Detroit-made vehicles. 
 Let the factories crank as they did in World War II, but put scrubbers on the smokestacks. Bail them out, but only under the condition that the products made with taxpayer money lead the world in efficiency -- for the sake of today's workers and tomorrow's children. 
 Christopher J. Teasdale
 Califon, N.J., Nov. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 There is, at the moment, a gorgeous bloom on the Obama rose. Every columnist and blogger -- right, left and in the middle -- is filled with great expectations and advice for the Obama administration. But that bloom can wither away in a heartbeat.
 Barack Obama is not a magician; he is not a political alchemist. He cannot turn Bush rust into Obama gold overnight. His ''to do'' list is agonizingly long and tough. We have every reason to revel in the moment, but if we don't take a deep breath and pitch in for the long haul, this remarkable, purely American political achievement will have gone to waste. Peter C. Alkalay
 Scarsdale, N.Y., Nov. 9, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Russia has welcomed Barack Obama to his presidency with tough talk (''Russia Aims to Be High on Obama's Agenda,'' news analysis, Nov. 8). But Russians often resort to tough talk, especially when dealing with a newcomer whose resolve and mettle they are trying to test. 
 In the give and take of negotiations, Russians will want to size up their adversary. Who is this person? Is he serious, strong and trustworthy? In making this assessment, Russians, like boxers, will bob and weave, feint and probe for weakness, and press forward vigorously when they sense a willingness to accommodate their views. 
 When a probe meets with resistance, they will pull back and regroup.
 President-elect Barack Obama should also heed an old Russian proverb: Don't hurry to reply, but hurry to listen. 
 Yale Richmond
 Washington, Nov. 8, 2008
 The writer is a retired Foreign Service officer.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''It Still Felt Good the Morning After'' (column, Nov. 9):
 Frank Rich and many others are hailing the election of Barack Obama as something transformational in the American electorate -- the breakdown of centuries of prejudice and perhaps the creation of a new center-left coalition. Certainly an event that many of us did not expect to see in our lifetimes took place. 
 Let us not forget, however, that were it not for the economic meltdown of September and October, we might well be hailing the election of John McCain and the resurgence of the Republican majority.
 It took the convergence of a truly unique individual with unusual gifts, one of the worst presidents in our nation's history and a nearly unprecedented economic meltdown for Senator Obama and the Democrats to win. It is now up to President-elect Obama and his Democratic colleagues to see if they can fashion an enduring majority from a political perfect storm. I wish them well.
 Michael G. Parker
 New York, Nov. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thumbs up to Bob Herbert, who wrote (column, Nov. 8) that ''the nation deserves to take a bow.''
 Hallways echoed with shouts of ''Obama, Obama, Obama!'' at the local high school, where I was teaching on the day after the election. Students, no matter the color of their skin, were weeping, smiling with pride and hugging one another. 
 Never before had I witnessed masses of young members of our next generation abuzz with excitement at the choosing of a new leader for our country.
 Sounds of the civil rights song ''We Shall Overcome'' floated out of the open door of a history classroom. I felt as if transported back to my own school days in my native Germany. 
 There, a favorite role-model teacher, who adored the work of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and President John F. Kennedy, inspired in me a desire to come to the United States.
 Since I immigrated in 1972, I've worked hard to earn my stripes as a citizen who would participate in the greatest exercise of democracy and human rights on earth. Alas, and especially during the last eight years, I had become ashamed to call myself an American. But since the election of the charismatic and visionary Barack Obama, I feel as if America has raised its head above mediocrity once again.
 My pride in having become a United States citizen is restored. And my hope for Barack Obama to draw all of the world's cultures into the fold of world citizenship and a collective new mission is huge. Angelika T. L. Byorth
 Lincoln, Neb., Nov. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama, History and the Task Ahead'' (letters, Nov. 6):
 After months of reading pessimistic letters to the editor, I am now reading optimistic letters after the election. Even John McCain supporters ended their letters on an upbeat note.
 There will be many challenges, but this new respect for our leadership will infuse the country and the world with optimism and, with luck, cooperation. 
 This can only be a good thing! 
 Judith Eisenberg Pollak
 New York, Nov. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Can We Laugh? Yes, We Can'' (Weekend section, Nov. 7):
 As one of the few standup comedians who do political humor every day, and not just during historic presidential campaigns, I am thrilled about Barack Obama's victory. Instead of rooting for him to stumble or bumble, as some comedians in the article do, I am looking to the Obama administration for inspiration and hope, not just comedic material.
 To borrow the words of our last transformational president, John F. Kennedy, ''Ask not what your country can do for political comedians, ask what political comedians can do for your country.'' And for those who ask whether comedians like me will be able to find jokes that are as intelligent as the president we seek to satirize, the answer is ''yes, we can.'' Scott Blakeman
 Brooklyn, Nov. 8, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WRITERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (74%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (53%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



486 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Ensuring That Gifts Go Where They're Needed

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
EVEN amid widespread angst over withered portfolios and a rocky economy, some Americans remain committed to helping the poorest of the poor. The question for the compassionate is how to make sure their charitable dollars will be used as effectively as possible. 
 ''Very savvy individuals treat their giving like their financial portfolios -- they do due diligence and research,'' said Lisa Philp, head of philanthropic services at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. ''Charitable decisions are close to the heart, often emotional, but they still call for financial savvy.'' 
 Certainly among the savvy is George Soros, the financier and philanthropist, who in 2006 gave $50 million to Millennium Promise, a charity founded to help realize the millennium development goals recommended by a task force headed by the economist Jeffrey D. Sachs and adopted by the United Nations in 2005. 
 Professor Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and a special adviser to the secretary general of the United Nations, argued then that extreme global poverty, which the World Bank defines as personal income of less than $1 a day, could be eliminated by 2025 if the world's 22 richest nations increased their combined foreign aid budgets to between $135 billion and $195 billion for a decade and allocated that money, less than 1 percent of their gross domestic product, in the most effective way. Those wealthy countries include the United States, Britain, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and most of the countries of Western Europe. 
 But Professor Sachs said that government funds were not the only source. Support from individuals and corporations is important, too. 
 ''Everybody has a role,'' Professor Sachs said last month. ''A holistic approach makes a lot of sense. I haven't changed my date,'' he added, even though he said he believed the United States faced the hardship of recession, but not depression. ''I have faith we will recover.'' 
 Mr. Soros's gift was for Millennium Villages, a project of Millennium Promise affecting a half-million people in Africa, where more than 80 villages are operating or are planned in 10 countries: Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Tanzania and Uganda. Professor Sachs described the project as community-based development using a three-pronged approach -- agriculture, health and education.
 Other big donors, he said, include Sumitomo Chemical, which has given treated mosquito netting to prevent malaria; Novartis, which has donated medications; and Ericsson, which has developed a telecommunications infrastructure and donated mobile phones to important people in the villages. 
 ''We're getting very exciting results,'' Professor Sachs said, not by giving handouts, but by helping villagers improve their lives. Agricultural production is doubling or tripling year over year, and once-poor school attendance is reaching 100 percent, thanks mainly to a school meal program, he said.
 Asked why he had chosen Millennium Promise, Mr. Soros, a graduate of the London School of Economics, said, ''Watching the Millennium efforts, I thought it was worth taking a risk.''
 ''My calculation in supporting this is as follows: $500 will move a family out of poverty,'' he said. ''As a pilot program, it will make a big difference in the pilot villages.'' That is the first level of risk, he said, and it alone would justify the expenditure.
 The second level of risk is leverage, or the hope that the villages will succeed in setting an example. ''It can be a model for bringing about systemic change,'' Mr. Soros said, and ''if it can be scaled up, it will make a very big difference.''
 Often pilot programs do not succeed on a larger scale, he added, but in this case he is hopeful. The government of Mali is very supportive, he said, so it could be expanded there. 
 Asked how he would advise prospective donors, Mr. Soros said they should ''do as much research as possible. Looking at the expense issue is relevant but not decisive.'' The humanitarian factor is vital. ''There is no substitute for firsthand engagement,'' he said.
 John W. McArthur, chief executive of Millennium Promise, said, ''People are motivated by giving to something that can have enormous results, a sense of impact.''
 Poverty in Africa has existed for so long that people may view it as an intractable problem, but Mr. McArthur said he believed the Millennium Promise goal of ending extreme poverty through improved health, education and agricultural production was attainable. 
 ''These are practical questions with practical solutions,'' he said. ''It is important that donors know their resources have a direct effect,'' he said, and that the results be transparent with frequent updates available to supporters. ''People want to feel the connection,'' said Mr. McArthur, who earned a master's degree in economics from Oxford, where he was a Rhodes scholar, and a master's in public policy from Harvard. 
 Ms. Philp of J. P. Morgan Private Bank suggested several ways that people can research charities to be sure their gifts will be used effectively.
 Charitable organizations must file I.R.S. Form 990, she said. Copies are available to the public at guidestar.org. ''People can look at comprehensive information over the past several years,'' she added. Charity Navigator (charitynavigator.org) and the Better Business Bureau (us.bbb.org) also offer information on many charities, including descriptions of their work, financial reports and sources of funds. 
 After doing the preliminary research, prospective donors, especially if they are contemplating making large gifts, should learn about the charity from personal experience, Ms. Philp advises. ''Do some volunteer work. Roll up your sleeves and get to know them.'' 
 And those who intend to make substantial contributions -- an endowed chair at a university or college, for example -- can also ask to meet with the president of the university or dean of the college to discuss how their gifts will be used. It is also possible to make a conditional pledge, she said.
 One client who had a large private foundation wanted to support a planned arts center and pledged a major donation if it materialized. It did not, so his foundation's money was used elsewhere.
 Some people like to give secretly, Ms. Philp said. ''We work with a family in the Midwest who live very simply,'' she said. ''We are their go-between and do the due diligence.'' 
 For others, ''philanthropy is part of a larger social network,'' and naming opportunities and personal contacts are important parts of their investment in the community, she said. 
 ''As a donor, be directed but also open to things you haven't thought of,'' Ms. Philp said. ''As an investor, you want your financial portfolio to be diversified. It's the same with giving. You might think of a university or a museum, but you might also want to think about alternatives and start-ups. Have a mix of things in your program.'' 
 Or, like Professor Sachs and Mr. Soros, you might like to become part of the effort to eliminate global poverty. As Mr. McArthur said, ''The fight to end extreme poverty is really all hands on deck.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DOLLARS AT WORK: A girl dragging jerrycans of water in Kenya, where the charity Millennium Promise is working to provide a more reliable water source. At left, a pipeline in Senegal that the group helped build.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRETT GLEITSMANN/THE EARTH INSTITUTE)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYU-YOUNG LEE/THE EARTH INSTITUTE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); PRIVATE BANKING (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (61%); AGRICULTURE (60%); CHEMICALS MFG (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); CHEMICALS (60%); MALARIA (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: SUMITOMO CHEMICAL CO LTD (54%); NOVARTIS AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: 4005 (TSE) (54%); NVS (NYSE) (51%); NOVN (SWX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (54%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (54%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (54%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); SENEGAL (92%); KENYA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); RWANDA (79%); UGANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); MALAWI (79%); JAPAN (79%); MALI (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CANADA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); GHANA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



487 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: In Turnabout, Conservatives In Iran Back Ahmadinejad

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad received praise from Iran's reformist politicians and withering criticism from its conservatives after he sent Barack Obama a letter last week congratulating him on winning the American presidential race.
 But in a sign that conservatives fear their attacks might inadvertently strengthen a possible reformist candidate in Iran's own presidential vote in June, their criticism has quickly shifted to early support for Mr. Ahmadinejad's re-election. 
 The potential opponent is former President Mohammad Khatami. He has not announced his candidacy, but is under pressure from his political allies to run. 
 On Friday, Mr. Obama offered a public reaction to the letter in his first postelection news conference, saying that he would review it and respond appropriately. But he also said ''Iran's support of terrorist organizations, I think, is something that has to cease'' and its suspected development of nuclear weapons was not acceptable.
 On Saturday, reformist politicians offered praise for Mr. Ahmadinejad's outreach. The letter ''presented a humane, reasonable and peace-seeking image of Iran,'' according to the daily newspaper Etemad. 
 But conservative members of Parliament and newspapers began their attacks. 
 The Jomhuri Islami newspaper, in an editorial, said that initiating contact with the United States was among the responsibilities of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme religious leader, and not of Mr. Ahmadinejad. Relations ruptured in 1979, after the Islamic Revolution in February and the takeover of the American Embassy in Tehran by students in November. 
 The speaker of Parliament, Ali Larijani, referred to Mr. Obama's noncommittal response and said the United States ''was not moving in the right direction'' for improving relations.
 Ahmad Tavakoli, a conservative member of Parliament, released a public letter, saying Mr. Ahmadinejad's unilateral efforts had been met with ''arrogant responses'' and did not serve the country's dignity.
 But by Sunday, the criticism had evaporated, and some conservative politicians had begun to condone the letter.
 Another conservative member of Parliament, Mehdi Koochakzadeh, said Sunday night that Mr. Ahmadinejad's letter was ''for the expedience of the regime and with the approval of the supreme leader,'' according to the Web site Alef, which is run by Mr. Tavakoli. 
 In addition, an editorial in Kayhan, a leading conservative daily, said Mr. Ahmadinejad was the ''most qualified candidate'' for the presidential race despite the criticisms of him. It argued that Mr. Ahmadinejad's achievements were more significant than his failures. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad is popular in smaller towns and villages, where he has distributed financial aid. In contrast, Mr. Khatami would be expected to draw support from large cities. 
 One analyst suggested that the conservatives were trying to get the reformists to choose a different candidate. 
 ''Maybe the conservatives are signaling to reformers that if they go after Mr. Khatami, they would get unified behind Mr. Ahmadinejad despite their differences with him,'' said Badr-al-sadat Mofidi, the deputy editor of the reformist daily Kargozaran. ''The unity among conservatives can change if the reformers do not nominate Mr. Khatami,'' she added.
 In what appears to be another signal of easing pressures on Mr. Ahmadinejad, several members of Parliament have indicated that they will vote for his nominee to fill the post of interior minister. Parliament fired Interior Minister Ali Kordan last week for lying about a fake honorary doctorate he said he had received from Oxford University. 
 The nominee, Sadeq Mahsouli, is a close ally of Mr. Ahmadinejad. But the previous Parliament -- which was more closely aligned with the president -- rejected Mr. Mahsouli's candidacy for the post of oil minister after doubts were raised about the source of his vast fortune.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad is suffering politically from the damage to Iran's economy caused by high inflation and a sharp drop in oil prices. Sixty economists warned in a public letter to the president that his hostile attitude to the rest of the world was causing lost trade and investment for the country, newspapers reported Saturday.
 The letter criticized the government for spending too much of the oil revenues and for its policies that the economists said had deprived the country of foreign investment.
 It said that the United Nations Security Council sanctions over Iran's refusal to suspend uranium enrichment activities had cost the country billions of dollars. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, shown in Tehran in October. He will face a presidential election of his own in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHEB HOMAVANDI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); RELIGION (65%); APPROVALS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ALI LARIJANI (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



488 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Group Files Lawsuit to Block Extension of Term Limits

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Elected officials, aspiring politicians, public interest groups and average citizens who voted to establish term limits in New York in the 1990s filed a federal lawsuit on Monday challenging the constitutionality of a law signed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last week that extended the limit from a maximum of two terms in office to three. 
 The suit charges that the mayor and the City Council seized upon the economic downturn as an excuse to undo the term limits law that had been affirmed by voters twice through referendum, in 1993 and 1996, and that it did so with imprudent speed. 
 The legislation that Mr. Bloomberg signed, and which the Council approved by a 29-to-22 margin last month, was the subject of two days and nights of public hearings at City Hall. The bill was signed into law 32 days after the mayor announced that he intended to run for a third term.
 ''Allowing a self-interested mayor and City Council to dismiss the results of two recent referenda undermines the integrity of the voting process, effectively nullifies the constitutionally protected right to vote, and perniciously chills political speech by sending the unavoidable message that the democratic exercises of initiatives and referenda can be disregarded by public officials,'' the complaint states. 
 The lawsuit asks, in essence, that the courts to prevent the law extending term limits from going into effect.
 In a statement, the city's corporation counsel, Michael A. Cardozo, said: ''We believe the claims lack merit, and are confident that the court will determine that the amendment to the term limits law was proper and lawful.'' 
 If the two-term limit had stayed in place, the mayor, comptroller, public advocate, four of the five borough presidents and 35 council members would have had to vacate their seats by Dec. 31, 2009. 
 But by extending the limits, the mayor and the Council altered next year's municipal elections, forcing those who had planned to run for what would have been open seats to reassess their decisions and, in some cases, change their strategies. 
 Among the lawsuit's 25 plaintiffs are several politicians who have had to rethink their races. Councilman Bill de Blasio had been campaigning to replace the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, who could not run under the old rules but now will run for a third term. So Mr. de Blasio is now running for public advocate, a seat that will be open because the incumbent, Betsy Gotbaum, has decided not run for a third term. 
 Kenneth J. Baer has spent most of the $12,000 he has raised in his campaign to replace Councilman David Yassky of Brooklyn, who is now unsure whether he will run for a third term or run for comptroller. The comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., has said that he will carry on with his mayoral aspirations, but there are some who doubt he will ultimately challenge Mr. Bloomberg, who has said that he is ready to spend $80 million of his own fortune on his re-election campaign.
 The lawsuit pointed out that in the past decade, only 2 of 107 incumbent council members lost a re-election bid. It also highlights Mayor Bloomberg's many statements in favor of term limits over the past few years, as when he criticized a proposal to resubmit the issue of term limits to a third referendum by saying: ''I think the public has spoken twice and they've spoken quite clearly. I don't know that you should keep shopping for a different answer.'' 
 Aside from Mr. Bloomberg, the City Council and the city itself, other defendants named in the suit are the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, and James J. Sampel, the president of the Board of Elections. 
 The lawsuit was filed by Randy M. Mastro, a deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration and a partner at the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, and Norman Siegel, a civil liberties lawyer who is running for public advocate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, William C. Thompson Jr., Charles Barron, Letitia James and Norman Siegel were among those who filed the suit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



489 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Darkness At Dusk

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
It's only been a week since the defeat, but the battle lines have already been drawn in the fight over the future of conservatism.
 In one camp, there are the Traditionalists, the people who believe that conservatives have lost elections because they have strayed from the true creed. George W. Bush was a big-government type who betrayed conservatism. John McCain was a Republican moderate, and his defeat discredits the moderate wing. 
 To regain power, the Traditionalists argue, the G.O.P. should return to its core ideas: Cut government, cut taxes, restrict immigration. Rally behind Sarah Palin. 
 Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity are the most prominent voices in the Traditionalist camp, but there is also the alliance of Old Guard institutions. For example, a group of Traditionalists met in Virginia last weekend to plot strategy, including Grover Norquist of Americans for Tax Reform, Leonard Leo of the Federalist Society and Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council. According to reports, the attendees were pleased that the election wiped out some of the party's remaining moderates. ''There's a sense that the Republicans on Capitol Hill are freer of wobbly-kneed Republicans than they were before the election,'' the writer R. Emmett Tyrrell told a reporter.
 The other camp, the Reformers, argue that the old G.O.P. priorities were fine for the 1970s but need to be modernized for new conditions. The reformers tend to believe that American voters will not support a party whose main idea is slashing government. The Reformers propose new policies to address inequality and middle-class economic anxiety. They tend to take global warming seriously. They tend to be intrigued by the way David Cameron has modernized the British Conservative Party.
 Moreover, the Reformers say, conservatives need to pay attention to the way the country has changed. Conservatives have to appeal more to Hispanics, independents and younger voters. They cannot continue to insult the sensibilities of the educated class and the entire East and West Coasts.
 The Reformist view is articulated most fully by books, such as ''Comeback'' by David Frum and ''Grand New Party'' by Ross Douthat and Reihan Salam, as well as the various writings of people like Ramesh Ponnuru, Yuval Levin, Jim Manzi, Rod Dreher, Peggy Noonan and, at the moderate edge, me. 
 The debate between the camps is heating up. Only one thing is for sure: In the near term, the Traditionalists are going to win the fight for supremacy in the G.O.P. 
 They are going to win, first, because Congressional Republicans are predominantly Traditionalists. Republicans from the coasts and the upper Midwest are largely gone. Among the remaining members, the popular view is that Republicans have been losing because they haven't been conservative enough.
 Second, Traditionalists have the institutions. Over the past 40 years, the Conservative Old Guard has built up a movement of activist groups, donor networks, think tanks and publicity arms. The reformists, on the other hand, have no institutions. 
 There is not yet an effective Republican Leadership Council to nurture modernizing conservative ideas. There is no moderate Club for Growth, supporting centrist Republicans. The Public Interest, which used to publish an array of public policy ideas, has closed. Reformist Republican donors don't seem to exist. Any publication or think tank that headed in an explicitly reformist direction would be pummeled by its financial backers. National candidates who begin with reformist records -- Giuliani, Romney or McCain -- immediately tack right to be acceptable to the power base.
 Finally, Traditionalists own the conservative mythology. Members of the conservative Old Guard see themselves as members of a small, heroic movement marching bravely from the Heartland into belly of the liberal elite. In this narrative, anybody who deviates toward the center, who departs from established doctrine, is a coward, and a sellout. 
 This narrative happens to be mostly bogus at this point. Most professional conservatives are lifelong Washingtonians who live comfortably as organization heads, lobbyists and publicists. Their supposed heroism consists of living inside the large conservative cocoon and telling each other things they already agree with. But this embattled-movement mythology provides a rational for crushing dissent, purging deviationists and enforcing doctrinal purity. It has allowed the old leaders to define who is a true conservative and who is not. It has enabled them to maintain control of (an ever more rigid) movement.
 In short, the Republican Party will probably veer right in the years ahead, and suffer more defeats. Then, finally, some new Reformist donors and organizers will emerge. They will build new institutions, new structures and new ideas, and the cycle of conservative ascendance will begin again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX REFORM (72%); WRITERS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); IMMIGRATION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (56%); AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (56%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); SARAH PALIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



490 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Florida and U.S. Sugar Revamp Everglades Deal

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Hector Florin contributed reporting from Boynton Beach, Fla.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Gov. Charlie Crist and the United States Sugar Corporation are close to an agreement that would scale back the state's ambitious purchase of the company to gain a wide swath of land for Everglades restoration, environmental groups close to the negotiations said Monday. 
 Under the revised plan, expected to be announced Tuesday in Miami, the company would keep its sugar mill, rail lines and other assets, while the state would acquire most of the company's 187,000 acres.
 That would be a step down from the initial $1.75 billion offer that Florida made in June to buy all of U.S. Sugar and put the company out of business. No final price has been announced, but the financial pressures of the economic downturn appear to have pushed both sides toward less ambitious terms. 
 ''Every company in America is worth less today than it was in June,'' said Kirk Fordham, chief executive of the Everglades Foundation. ''This simplifies the deal. It makes it easier to swallow from a financial standpoint, and it's less complicated.''
 Many environmental groups said they were still waiting for the final details. It was unclear how much of U.S. Sugar's land would be included in the sale, how it would be paid for and whether the company would be leasing back its land for several years, which had been part of the original proposal. 
 Officials in the governor's office did not return calls seeking comment. Just before 6 p.m., they said a news conference would be held Tuesday at the former home of Marjory Stoneman Douglas, who was known as the patron saint of the Everglades. 
 The South Florida Water Management District, the state agency in charge of the acquisition, declined to elaborate on the deal. In a statement, the agency said, ''We've made significant progress to date and we're working hard to keep options open.''
 A purchase of U.S. Sugar's land, which lies south of Lake Okeechobee, would be the state's largest acquisition of property for the Everglades, dubbed the river of grass. It would please environmentalists who had worried that complications over the company's other assets would scuttle the deal or make it too expensive. 
 Lisa Interlandi, a lawyer with the Everglades Law Center, said ''the key for restoration purposes always has been the land.''
 Eric Draper, deputy and policy director of Audubon of Florida, said on Monday afternoon that he was ''pretty certain that the proposal is limited to land, not assets, which is a pretty significant accomplishment.'' 
 Mr. Fordham agreed. ''If Governor Crist is able to successfully negotiate a deal with U.S. Sugar in the midst of this economic crisis,'' he said, ''it will be a masterstroke that skeptics never thought he could pull off.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAND RECLAMATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); LAKES (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES SUGAR CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311314 CANE SUGAR MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2061 CANE SUGAR EX. REFINING (91%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



491 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: For South, a Waning Hold on National Politics

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER; Ford Fessenden contributed reporting.

 BODY:
VERNON, Ala. -- Fear of the politician with the unusual name and look did not end with last Tuesday's vote in this rural red swatch where buck heads and rifles hang on the wall. This corner of the Deep South still resonates with negative feelings about the race of President-elect Barack Obama.
What may have ended on Election Day, though, is the centrality of the South to national politics. By voting so emphatically for Senator John McCain over Mr. Obama -- supporting him in some areas in even greater numbers than they did President Bush -- voters from Texas to South Carolina and Kentucky may have marginalized their region for some time to come, political experts say.
The region's absence from Mr. Obama's winning formula means it ''is becoming distinctly less important,'' said Wayne Parent, a political scientist at Louisiana State University. ''The South has moved from being the center of the political universe to being an outside player in presidential politics.'' 
One reason for that is that the South is no longer a solid voting bloc. Along the Atlantic Coast, parts of the ''suburban South,'' notably Virginia and North Carolina, made history last week in breaking from their Confederate past and supporting Mr. Obama. Those states have experienced an influx of better educated and more prosperous voters in recent years, pointing them in a different political direction than states farther west, like Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, and Appalachian sections of Kentucky and Tennessee.
Southern counties that voted more heavily Republican this year than in 2004 tended to be poorer, less educated and whiter, a statistical analysis by The New York Times shows. Mr. Obama won in only 44 counties in the Appalachian belt, a stretch of 410 counties that runs from New York to Mississippi. Many of those counties, rural and isolated, have been less exposed to the diversity, educational achievement and economic progress experienced by more prosperous areas.
The increased turnout in the South's so-called Black Belt, or old plantation-country counties, was visible in the results, but it generally could not make up for the solid white support for Mr. McCain. Alabama, for example, experienced a heavy black turnout and voted slightly more Democratic than in 2004, but the state over all gave 60 percent of its vote to Mr. McCain. (Arkansas, however, doubled the margin of victory it gave to the Republican over 2004.)
Less than a third of Southern whites voted for Mr. Obama, compared with 43 percent of whites nationally. By leaving the mainstream so decisively, the Deep South and Appalachia will no longer be able to dictate that winning Democrats have Southern accents or adhere to conservative policies on issues like welfare and tax policy, experts say.
That could spell the end of the so-called Southern strategy, the doctrine that took shape under President Richard M. Nixon in which national elections were won by co-opting Southern whites on racial issues. And the Southernization of American politics -- which reached its apogee in the 1990s when many Congressional leaders and President Bill Clinton were from the South -- appears to have ended.
''I think that's absolutely over,'' said Thomas Schaller, a political scientist who argued prophetically that the Democrats could win national elections without the South.
The Republicans, meanwhile, have ''become a Southernized party,'' said Mr. Schaller, who teaches at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. ''They have completely marginalized themselves to a mostly regional party,'' he said, pointing out that nearly half of the current Republican House delegation is now Southern.
Merle Black, an expert on the region's politics at Emory University in Atlanta, said the Republican Party went too far in appealing to the South, alienating voters elsewhere.
''They've maxed out on the South,'' he said, which has ''limited their appeal in the rest of the country.''
Even the Democrats made use of the Southern strategy, as the party's two presidents in the last 40 years, Jimmy Carter and Mr. Clinton, were Southerners whose presence on the ticket served to assuage regional anxieties. Mr. Obama has now proved it is no longer necessary to include a Southerner on the national ticket -- to quiet racial fears, for example -- in order to win, in the view of analysts.
Several Southern states, including Arkansas, Louisiana and Tennessee, have voted for the winner in presidential elections for decades. No more. And Mr. Obama's race appears to have been the critical deciding factor in pushing ever greater numbers of white Southerners away from the Democrats.
Here in Alabama, where Mr. McCain won 60.4 percent of the vote in his best Southern showing, he had the support of nearly 9 in 10 whites, according to exit polls, a figure comparable to other Southern states. Alabama analysts pointed to the persistence of traditional white Southern attitudes on race as the deciding factor in Mr. McCain's strong margin. Mr. Obama won in Jefferson County, which includes the city of Birmingham, and in the Black Belt, but he made few inroads elsewhere.
''Race continues to play a major role in the state,'' said Glenn Feldman, a historian at the University of Alabama, Birmingham. ''Alabama, unfortunately, continues to remain shackled to the bonds of yesterday.''
David Bositis, senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, pointed out that the 18 percent share of whites that voted for Senator John Kerry in 2004 was almost cut in half for Mr. Obama.
''There's no other explanation than race,'' he said.
In Arkansas, which had among the nation's largest concentration of counties increasing their support for the Republican candidate over the 2004 vote, ''there's a clear indication that racial conservatism was a component of that shift away from the Democrat,'' said Jay Barth, a political scientist in the state.
Race was a strong subtext in post-election conversations across the socioeconomic spectrum here in Vernon, the small, struggling seat of Lamar County on the Mississippi border.
One white woman said she feared that blacks would now become more ''aggressive,'' while another volunteered that she was bothered by the idea of a black man ''over me'' in the White House.
Mr. McCain won 76 percent of the county's vote, about five percentage points more than Mr. Bush did, because ''a lot more people came out, hoping to keep Obama out,'' Joey Franks, a construction worker, said in the parking lot of the Shop and Save.
Mr. Franks, who voted for Mr. McCain, said he believed that ''over 50 percent voted against Obama for racial reasons,'' adding that in his own case race mattered ''a little bit. That's in my mind.''
Many people made it clear that they were deeply apprehensive about Mr. Obama, though some said they were hoping for the best.
''I think any time you have someone elected president of the United States with a Muslim name, whether they are white or black, there are some very unsettling things,'' George W. Newman, a director at a local bank and the former owner of a trucking business, said over lunch at Yellow Creek Fish and Steak.
Don Dollar, the administrative assistant at City Hall, said bitterly that anyone not upset with Mr. Obama's victory should seek religious forgiveness.
''This is a community that's supposed to be filled with a bunch of Christian folks,'' he said. ''If they're not disappointed, they need to be at the altar.''
Customers of Bill Pennington, a barber whose downtown shop is decorated with hunting and fishing trophies, were ''scared because they heard he had a Muslim background,'' Mr. Pennington said over the country music on the radio. ''Over and over again I heard that.''
Mr. Obama remains an unknown quantity in this corner of the South, and there are deep worries about the changes he will bring.
''I am concerned,'' Gail McDaniel, who owns a cosmetics business, said in the parking lot of the Shop and Save. ''The abortion thing bothers me. Same-sex marriage.''
''I think there are going to be outbreaks from blacks,'' she added. ''From where I'm from, this is going to give them the right to be more aggressive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Pennington at his shop in Vernon, Ala. John McCain won 76 percent of the county's vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WES FRAZER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) MAPS: This year, only 22 percent of the nation's counties voted more Republican than in 2004. Most were in the South. (A1)
Voter Shift: Much of the country moved toward the left in 2008, as more people voted for the Democratic presidential candidate, and fewer for the Republican, than in 2004. But 22 percent of counties went the other way. The counties that moved toward the Republican candidate tended to be lower income, less educated, more rural, less diverse and Southern.(Sources: Associated Press
U.S. Census
Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
2000 Religious Congregations and Membership Study)
 A Contrary Vote: Compared with 2004 margin, 2008 vote was...(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



492 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: It's About the Mortgages

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson does not seem like the sort of man who suffers fools gladly. Yet, he apparently is tolerant of, or powerless against, a White House that remains opposed to direct government action to prevent foreclosures -- a program that is essential to keep millions of Americans in their homes and head off an even deeper financial catastrophe.
 Nearly three weeks ago, Sheila Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, told Congress that the agency was working closely with Mr. Paulson's department to develop a robust anti-foreclosure plan. Since then, the Treasury Department has balked and equivocated while the White House has argued that it is already doing plenty to help homeowners. 
 After a year of doing far too little to stem a flood of foreclosures, the problem is getting worse. Defaults lead to foreclosures that push down all house prices. Those falling prices -- combined with rising unemployment, falling incomes and another expected surge in monthly payments on adjustable rate loans -- will surely lead to more defaults and deeper price declines, threatening bank solvency and prolonging the credit crunch. 
 Clearly, the system won't stabilize until house prices stabilize, and banks won't lend freely until losses on defaulting mortgages abate.
 The crisis may never have spun so far out of control if the government had initiated a rigorous effort last year to prevent mass defaults. Instead it kowtowed to the mortgage industry, backing voluntary, loan-by-loan renegotiations that have failed to solve the problem. 
 If the administration's $700 billion bailout has any hope of working, it will have to address the foreclosure problem -- now, not later. 
 The F.D.I.C. has developed a sensible plan that is being used, with promising early results, to rework defaulting mortgages at IndyMac, the failed Southern California bank. Under the plan, the banks restructure troubled mortgages -- lowering the interest rate, extending the loan term or deferring payment on a portion of principal -- so that they're affordable. The goal is to reduce the monthly payment to about a third to two-fifths of a borrower's after-tax income. 
 The deal also benefits mortgage lenders and investors, because, over time, the new loans would make more money than would be recouped in a foreclosure. If the loans default, the government would share in the losses. 
 It wouldn't take much -- when compared with $700 billion -- to expand this plan nationwide: about $40 billion. It could be done without new legislation since the money could come from the bank bailout fund. 
 Critics warn that the plan would encourage homeowners to deliberately default on their current mortgages in hopes of getting a better deal. That assumes that homeowners in good standing would knowingly ruin their credit in order to catch a break. The plan also only applies to people whose mortgages are unaffordable based on their income. Might some freeloaders sneak in? Yes. Is that a reason not to move forward? No. 
 Within the administration, there has been talk about a possible new foreclosure plan that might temporarily reduce monthly payments, say, for five years, or would require the government to make direct payments to the lender to make up for lost cash flow. That would be a misuse of taxpayer dollars because temporary loan modifications would not stabilize the system in the long run. 
 All roads, into and out of this crisis, run through the housing market. Mr. Paulson should be pressing for a streamlined plan that includes permanent modifications to troubled loans. That is the only way to keep Americans in their homes, save the banks and the economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); LEGISLATION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA BANK (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); SHEILA BAIR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



493 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Beyond The Fat Cats

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The most important thing the Democrats and President-elect Obama can do with regard to the economy is bring back a sense of fairness and equity. 
 The fat cats who placed the entire economy at risk with their greed and manic irresponsibility are trying to lay claim to every last dime in the national Treasury. Meanwhile, we're nowhere close to an economic recovery program that will help the people who are hurting most.
 Back in September, with the credit markets frozen and the stock markets panicking, the treasury secretary, Henry Paulson, was telling anyone who would listen that his $700 billion bailout package had to be passed with lightning speed -- no time to look at it too closely, no time for dissent. 
 The package was modified, but hurriedly. Now we learn that while all eyes were focused on this enormous new burden for American taxpayers, Mr. Paulson's department was also engineering -- separate and apart from the bailout -- what The Washington Post described as ''a quiet windfall for U.S. banks. ''
 With virtually no public attention, and without the input of Congress, Treasury made a change in an obscure tax provision that benefited banks to the tune of well over $100 billion. Was this good policy? In the absence of proper scrutiny, how is it possible to know? 
 We've also learned that the government bailout of the giant insurer, the American International Group -- already more than $100 billion -- is apparently insufficient. Tens of billions more are needed.
 When the Champagne and caviar crowd is in trouble, there is no conceivable limit to the amount of taxpayer money that can be found, and found quickly.
 But when it comes to ordinary citizens in dire situations -- those being thrown out of work or forced from their homes by foreclosure or driven into bankruptcy because of illness and a lack of adequate health insurance -- well, then we have to start pinching pennies. That's when it's time to become fiscally conservative. President Bush even vetoed a bill that would have expanded health insurance coverage for children.
 We can find trillions for a foolish war and for pompous, self-righteous high-rollers who wrecked their companies and the economy. But what about the working poor and the young people who are being clobbered in this downturn, battered so badly that they're all but destitute? Can we find any way to help them?
 In an article on Sunday, The Times mentioned a young woman in Philadelphia, Kyuana Everett, who is 21 years old, has a high school diploma and is desperate for work. ''I've tried everything,'' she said, ''retail sales, office work, but the employers all say they have too many staff and they're not hiring now.''
 The article noted that Ms. Everett cannot even afford to rent a room for herself. She stays with her grandmother, secretly, in a home for the aged.
 This is no ordinary recession. With brokerage houses, banks and a mammoth multinational insurance company depending on the Treasury for resuscitation, and with automakers like General Motors staring bankruptcy in the face, it has the feel of a monster downturn, a recession on steroids.
 That kind of downturn buries people at the bottom of the economic ladder. We have an obligation to look out for them as well as for the banks and the A.I.G.'s of the world. 
 If I could place a message on the desk of the incoming president, it would have just one word: Jobs.
 With credit cards maxed out, the stock market in the tank, family savings depleted and home equity evaporating, that weekly or monthly paycheck has never been so important.
 Congress and the new administration need to think big -- bigger than the stimulus package of $100 billion or so, which is being kicked around. Now is the time for a coast-to-coast ''Rebuild America'' infrastructure program. Put people to work repairing and rebuilding roads and bridges, decrepit schools and ancient sewer systems. Get the construction industry back on its feet.
 And now is the time to get going on candidate Obama's promise to move the country as close as possible to a system of universal health insurance. Pump the money from that vast project into the economy and get those jobs up and running.
 And let's get some help, quickly, to the families who are suffering most from the housing crisis -- the ones trembling and heartbroken in the dark shadow of foreclosure.
 The naysayers will claim that all of this is too expensive, that we can't afford it. Where were they when we invaded Iraq? And how do they feel about the staggering amounts being funneled, with nothing like the proper oversight, to the banks and Wall Street?
 Let's try investing in America and its people for a change, rather than just hurling our billions into the abyss. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); VETO (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSURANCE (75%); FORECLOSURE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); CHILDREN (67%); CONSERVATISM (64%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); HENRY PAULSON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



494 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Obama Asks Bush to Provide Help for Automakers

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The struggling auto industry was thrust into the middle of a political standoff between the White House and Democrats on Monday as President-elect Barack Obama urged President Bush in a meeting at the White House to support immediate emergency aid.
 Mr. Bush indicated at the meeting that he might support some aid and a broader economic stimulus package if Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats dropped their opposition to a free-trade agreement with Colombia, a measure for which Mr. Bush has long fought, people familiar with the discussion said.
The Bush administration, which has presided over a major intervention in the financial industry, has balked at allowing the automakers to tap into the $700 billion bailout fund, despite warnings last week that General Motors might not survive the year.
 Mr. Obama and Congressional Democratic leaders say the bailout law authorizes the administration to extend assistance. 
 Mr. Obama went into his post-election meeting with Mr. Bush on Monday primed to urge him to support emergency aid to the auto industry, advisers to Mr. Obama said. But Democrats also indicate that neither Mr. Obama nor Congressional leaders are inclined to concede the Colombia pact to Mr. Bush, and may decide to wait until Mr. Obama assumes power on Jan. 20.
 On Tuesday, the White House disputed any suggestion that President Bush had demanded support for a free-trade agreement in return for his backing of a stimulus package that would aid auto makers. ''They did speak about a range of issues, both domestic and international, and they did spend some time talking about the economy,'' said the president's spokeswoman, Dana Perino. ''But in no way did President Bush suggest that there was a quid pro quo when it came to the Colombia free trade agreement or the other free trade agreements.''
 John Podesta, a leader of the Obama transition team, also said on Tuesday that there had been ''no quid pro quo'' in the exchange about Colombia and an economic-recovery package.
 Separate from his differences with Mr. Bush, Mr. Obama has signaled to the automakers and the unions that his support for short-term aid now, and long-term assistance once he takes office, is contingent on their willingness to agree to transform their industry to make cleaner, more energy-efficient vehicles. 
 A week after Mr. Obama's election, and more than two months before he takes office, the steadily weakening economy and the prospect of many more job losses are testing his effort to remain aloof from the nation's business on the argument that ''we only have one president at a time.'' 
 As the auto industry reels, rarely has an issue so quickly illustrated the differences from one White House occupant to the next. How Mr. Obama responds to the industry's dire straits will indicate how much government intervention in the private sector he is willing to tolerate. It will also offer hints of how he will approach his job under pressure, testing the limits of his conciliation toward the opposition party and his willingness to stand up to the interest groups in his own. 
 G.M.'s shares tumbled on Monday to 1946 prices, closing down 23 percent to $3.36, as analysts downgraded the stock on worries it would soon run out of cash and shareholders would be wiped out by any federal bailout.
 Mr. Obama has been far more receptive than Mr. Bush to having the government intervene to rescue another major sector of the economy. He called automakers ''the backbone of American manufacturing'' in his first post-election press conference last Friday, and many thousands of their employees belong to unions that are part of the Democratic Party's base.
 But Mr. Obama's stance raises the question, with the country in a worsening economic situation, where would the Democrat draw the line as president?
 Mr. Bush has drawn his line at the automakers' doors, having already been forced to shelve the free-market principles of his Republican Party to bail out the financial industry over the past two months. But Republicans say he would acquiesce in aid to automakers in return for Congress's ratification of the Colombia pact and pending trade agreements with Panama and South Korea.
 The outgoing and incoming presidents met at the White House in private, without staff. 
 The Democratic leaders in Congress, the speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, have declined to call a lame-duck session for next week, as they had hoped, without assurance that Mr. Bush would support a stimulus package.
 Mr. Obama has called on the Bush administration to accelerate $25 billion in federal loans provided by a recent law specifically to help automakers retool. Late in his campaign, Mr. Obama proposed doubling that to $50 billion. But industry supporters say the automakers, squeezed both by the unavailability of credit and depressed sales, need unrestricted cash now, simply to meet payroll and other expenses.
 On Friday, Mr. Obama said he would instruct his economic team, once he chooses it, to devise a long-range plan for helping the auto industry recover in a way that is part of an energy and environmental policy to reduce reliance on foreign oil and address climate change.
 While Mr. Obama campaigned on a promise of bipartisan conciliation, his choice for his White House chief of staff, Representative Rahm Emanuel, indicated on Sunday that no such deal linking auto-industry aid and a stimulus package with trade pacts was in the cards. ''You don't link those essential needs to some other trade deal,'' Mr. Emanuel said on ABC's ''This Week.'' 
 Democrats close to both Mr. Obama's transition team and to Congressional leaders seemed willing to call Mr. Bush's bluff, calculating that he would not want to gamble that G.M. -- an iconic, century-old American corporation with business tentacles in every state -- would fail on his watch and add to the negative notes of his legacy. Also, economists as conservative as Martin Feldstein, an adviser to a long line of Republican presidents and candidates, have called more broadly for stimulus spending of up to $300 billion.
 The major automakers -- G.M., Ford and Chrysler -- are each using up their cash at unsustainable rates. The Center for Automotive Research, which is based in Michigan and supported by the industry, released on Election Day an economic analysis of the impact of one or all of them failing. If the Big Three were to collapse, it said, that would cost at least three million jobs, counting autoworkers, suppliers and other businesses dependent on the companies, down to the hot-dog vendors and bartenders next door to their plants.
 The center also concluded that the cost to local, state and federal governments would reach to as much as $156.4 billion over three years in lost taxes and higher outlays for things like unemployment and health care assistance. Separately, some economists say the demise of even one of the automakers could tip the current recession toward a depression.
 For Mr. Bush, however, the hard-line approach is his only leverage to make the trade agreements part of his legacy. The Colombia deal, especially, is strongly opposed by organized labor groups, which are a major force in the Democratic Party, and by human-rights activists.
 In the Senate and during his nomination race against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, Mr. Obama opposed the pacts and especially the Colombia agreement, given that country's reported human rights abuses against unionists. He insists he favors free trade, but only if trading partners agree to protections for their workers and the environment -- reflecting the standard Democratic Party line since President Bill Clinton's administration.
 On his campaign Web site, Mr. Obama said he would oppose the Colombia pact ''if President Bush insists on sending it to Congress because the violence against unions in Colombia would make a mockery of the very labor protections that we have insisted be included in these kinds of agreements.''
 Organized labor is not the only interest group with influence in the Democratic Party that is weighing in as Mr. Obama plans his transition. Environmentalists are adamant that any aid be conditioned on the auto industry's dropping of its opposition to higher fuel-efficiency standards and investing more in new technology. That puts them at odds with unions, who oppose any strings, leaving it to Mr. Obama to mediate.
 Both as a candidate and now as president-elect, Mr. Obama has been in contact with former Vice President Al Gore, who last year won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work on climate change. In a column published in Sunday's New York Times, Mr. Gore wrote that ''we should help America's automobile industry (not only the Big Three but the innovative new start-up companies as well) to convert quickly to plug-in hybrids that can run on the renewable electricity that will be available.''
 Mr. Obama has said that he wants to meet with the Big Three auto executives, but advisers say no meeting is scheduled. Among his advisers who have communicated with the industry chiefs and their representatives are Jason Furman, the Obama campaign's economic policy director; John D. Podesta, the head of Mr. Obama's transition; and former Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, an Obama adviser who is under consideration to be Treasury secretary again. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: What's at Stake: If Detroit's Big Three automakers shut down their operations in the United States, up to three million jobs may be lost in the first year, according to the Center for Automotive Research.
 Weighing Proposals for a Fix: Rahm Emanuel, the chief of staff for President-elect Barack Obama, called for swifter action to lift the struggling auto industry on Sunday. A look at what he suggested: (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2009



495 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye, Reagan Democrats

BYLINE: By STANLEY B. GREENBERG. 
Stanley B. Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, is the author of the forthcoming ''Dispatches From the War Room: In the Trenches With Five Extraordinary Leaders.''

 BODY:
I'M finished with the Reagan Democrats of Macomb County in suburban Detroit after making a career of spotlighting their middle-class anger and frustrations about race and Democratic politicians. Bill Clinton wrote in his autobiography that my ''extensive research on the so-called Reagan Democrats and what it would take to bring them home'' was the reason he hired me as his pollster for his presidential campaign. 
 For more than 20 years, the non-college-educated white voters in Macomb County have been considered a ''national political barometer,'' as Ronald Brownstein of National Journal described them during the Democratic convention in August. After Ronald Reagan won the county by a 2-to-1 margin in 1984, Mr. Brownstein noted, I conducted focus groups that ''found that these working-class whites interpreted Democratic calls for economic fairness as code for transfer payments to African-Americans.'' So what do we think when Barack Obama, an African-American Democrat, wins Macomb County by eight points? 
 I conducted a survey of 750 Macomb County residents who voted Tuesday, and their responses put their votes in context. Before the Democratic convention, barely 40 percent of Macomb County voters were ''comfortable'' with the idea of Mr. Obama as president, far below the number who were comfortable with a nameless Democrat. But on Election Day, nearly 60 percent said they were ''comfortable'' with Mr. Obama. About the same number said Mr. Obama ''shares your values'' and ''has what it takes to be president.''
 Given Macomb's history, this story helps illustrate America's evolving relationship with race. These voters, like voters elsewhere, watched Mr. Obama intently and became confident he would work for all Americans and be the steady leader the times required.But focusing on the ways that Macomb County has become normal and uninteresting misses the extraordinary changes taking place next door in Oakland County -- a place that played a bigger role in Mr. Obama's success and perhaps in an emerging national Democratic ascendancy. 
 While Macomb County is home to the white middle class that America's auto industry made possible, Oakland County is home to the affluent, business-oriented suburbanites of Birmingham and Bloomfield Hills, some of the richest townships in America. Just a quarter of Macomb County residents have college degrees, but more than 40 percent do in Oakland.
 Oakland County has formed part of the Republican heartland in Michigan and the country. From 1972 to 1988, Democratic presidential candidates in their best years lost the county by 20 points. From Bill Clinton to John Kerry, however, Democrats began to settle for a draw. Over the past two decades, Oakland County began to change, as an influx of teachers, lawyers and high-tech professionals began to outnumber the county's business owners and managers. Macomb has been slow to welcome racial diversity, but almost a quarter of Oakland's residents are members of various racial minorities. 
 These changes have produced a more tolerant and culturally liberal population, uncomfortable with today's Republican Party. When we conducted our poll of 600 voters in Oakland County on election night, they were a lot more open than voters in Macomb to gay marriage and affirmative action. We asked those who voted for Mr. Obama why they made that choice. At the top of the list was his promise to withdraw troops from Iraq, followed by his support for tax cuts for the middle class and affordable health care for all, and the idea that he will bring people together, end the old politics and get things done. 
 On Tuesday, Oakland County voters gave Mr. Obama a 57 percent to 42 percent victory over John McCain -- those 15 points translated into an astonishing 96,000-vote margin. That helped form one of the most important new national changes in the electorate: Mr. Obama built up striking dominance in the country's growing, more diverse and well-educated suburbs.
 So, good riddance, my Macomb barometer. Four years from now, I trust we will see the candidates rush from their conventions to Oakland County, to see the new America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HISTORY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



496 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: For Obamas, a Tour of the White House and the Issues Ahead

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Michelle Obama kissed Laura Bush lightly on the cheek. President-elect Barack Obama gave President Bush an athletic pat on the shoulder. With those simple gestures, carried out Monday afternoon on the South Portico of the White House, a time-honored ritual of American democracy -- the peaceful transfer of power -- officially began.
 For the nation, it was an obvious first as an African-American came to tour the White House as president-elect. But for Mr. Obama, the visit marked a series of personal firsts: 
 His first trip back to the nation's capital since his victory over Senator John McCain last week. His first limousine ride in Washington; on the campaign trail, Mr. Obama typically rode in a sport utility vehicle. His first time inside the Oval Office; although Mr. Obama had been to the White House before, he had never set foot inside the storied office that symbolizes American power around the world.
 The visit was choreographed to provide images of a smooth transition and a warm and friendly welcome for the new first family, and the two couples obliged. But there was as much substance as style; the session came in the thick of a financial crisis that has Washington swirling with talk of a second stimulus package, an expanded bailout for the insurance giant A.I.G. and help for struggling automakers. 
 For an hour and five minutes, Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama sat in the Oval Office with no aides or note-takers, and discussed the economic crisis and the security challenges facing the nation. Mr. Obama pressed Mr. Bush to offer aid to automakers; Mr. Bush raised the free trade pact with Colombia, stalled in the Democratic-led Congress, people familiar with the session said.
 Both sides were circumspect and declined to disclose details of their talk, preferring to let the images speak for themselves.
 ''Good, constructive, relaxed and friendly,'' said the White House press secretary, Dana Perino, summarizing Mr. Bush's impressions.
 ''It was bit of a momentous day,'' Mr. Obama's press secretary, Robert Gibbs, told reporters on the flight back to Chicago, adding that Mr. Obama found the president to be ''gracious.''
 ''I don't know that I would characterize him as awestruck,'' Mr. Gibbs said of Mr. Obama. ''What he said to me is, 'It's a really nice office.' ''
 The Obamas began their day in Chicago, traveling separately to Washington so Mrs. Obama could stay on and look at schools for the couple's daughters, Malia, 10, and Sasha, 7. (After the White House visit, Mrs. Obama was spotted at the Georgetown Day School, one of Washington's fanciest private schools.)
 The couple was due at the White House at 2 p.m., but arrived 10 minutes early, no doubt pleasing the always punctual Mr. Bush. The men were sartorially in sync in dark blue suits, white shirts and sky blue ties; after the couples posed for photographs at the South Portico, the two leaders could be seen strolling along the Colonnade, past the White House Rose Garden, pausing for a few moments before they walked through the glass doors of the Oval Office for the first of two private meetings.
 Mr. Bush relishes telling visitors about the office, and aides said the president gave Mr. Obama his standard tour, talking about the historic pieces -- including the desk used by President John F. Kennedy, made famous when young John F. Kennedy Jr. was photographed peering out from under it -- as well as the Texas-inspired artwork. The men joined their wives for a brief tour of the residence before returning to the Oval Office. 
 Meanwhile, Mrs. Bush and Mrs. Obama, who had not met before, took a more extensive tour. For Mrs. Obama, the visit was a chance to begin working on the logistics of moving her family -- including her mother, who helps look after the children. To that end, she met with one of the most important people at the White House, Adm. Stephen W. Rochon, the chief usher, who runs the mansion and oversees everything from state dinners to redecorating.
 Mrs. Bush showed Mrs. Obama all 33 rooms on the second and third floors, White House officials said, including the bedrooms where Malia and Sasha would most likely live, the same rooms used by the Kennedy children and Amy Carter, and by the Bush twins during weekend visits when their grandfather, the first President George Bush, occupied the White House.
 The affair carried the feeling of a political changing of the guard, with aides to Mr. Bush standing on the South Lawn introducing themselves to their counterparts in an Obama administration.
 Ms. Perino, the press secretary, took Mr. Gibbs, a longtime aide to Mr. Obama, into her office to discuss his coming role at her job. Reggie Love, the body man for Mr. Obama, received a tour of his own from Mr. Bush's assistant, and several other young aides were shown around the West Wing. 
 A sense of anticipation extended beyond 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. As the Obamas' limousine made its way to the White House, hundreds of people lined the streets, craning their necks to see. When the door opened and the couple stepped out to greet the Bushes, there was an unfamiliar sound: cheering outside the White House gates. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After posing outside the White House, President Bush and President-elect Barack Obama talked policy in the Oval Office while their wives toured the residence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); BAILOUTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (60%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



497 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13), 10 P.M. (49) BOOGIE MAN: THE LEE ATWATER STORY They called him the happy hatchet man and the Darth Vader of the Republican Party. In 1989, after masterminding the presidential victory of George H. W. Bush over Michael Dukakis -- including the infamous Willie Horton ad -- Lee Atwater (above right, mugging with Mr. Bush) was the political equivalent of a rock star, basking in the limelight of his new role as chairman of the Republican National Committee and mentoring political operatives like Karl Rove. Two years later Mr. Atwater died of a brain tumor at 41, but not before apologizing for some of his tactics. Writing in The New York Times, Jeannette Catsoulis called this ''Frontline'' documentary about his rise and fall ''generous in spirit and nimble in technique.'' 
 9 A.M. (CBS) THE DOCTORS Six potentially deadly pains that should never be ignored; also, germs in restaurants. Eeew. 
 10 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAYWhoopi Goldberg of ''The View'' discusses feuds surrounding the show's host Elisabeth Hasselbeck.
 10 A.M. (55); 3 P.M. (NBC) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW Ms. DeGeneres gives an album-release party for Taylor Swift, who performs. Justin Timberlake crashes. 
 7 P.M. (Sundance) BODY OF WAR This documentary, directed by Ellen Spiro and Phil Donahue, tells the story of Tomas Young, right, a 24-year-old American soldier paralyzed from the chest down by a bullet wound, who has become an antiwar activist. 
 8 P.M. (13, 49) ALIEN FROM EARTH ''Nova'' investigates the significance of the bones of tiny humans, or ''Hobbits,'' first discovered in 2004 on the island of Flores, in Indonesia. 
 8 P.M. (MyNetworkTV) HEROES AT HOME AND ABROAD Six veterans share their personal experiences of service in Iraq and Afghanistan. The soldiers and their families will be given a weekend vacation, home furnishings and other items meant to ease the return to civilian life.
 9 P.M. (History) THE UNIVERSE Season 2 begins with an examination of the dangers of space travel, particularly during launch and re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere. 
 10 P.M. (CNBC) DIRTY MONEY: THE BUSINESS OF HIGH-END PROSTITUTION Here's one industry the recession hasn't touched: Melissa Francis reports on the thriving business of high-end prostitution and the services -- some costing $12,000 to $100,000 a day -- provided to the rich and powerful. Experts including Michael Bader, a psychologist and the author of ''Male Sexuality: Why Women Don't Understand It and Men Don't Either''; Elizabeth Bernstein, a sociologist and the author of ''Temporarily Yours: Intimacy, Authenticity, and the Commerce of Sex''; and Tracy Quan, a former escort and author of ''The Diary of a Manhattan Call Girl,'' give perspective. 
 10 P.M. (Sci Fi) CHA$E Sometimes being stalked is a good thing. In this new competition show contestants in search of cash are ''hunted'' for an hour in real time. Players earn money for each second they ''stay alive'' -- but if they are ''killed,'' everything vanishes.
 10 P.M. (BET) KEYSHIA COLE: THE WAY IT IS Will she never learn? This Season 3 opener finds Ms. Cole on the path to success, as her mother, Frankie, and her sister Neffie find some much-needed independence and digs of their own. Then Ms. Cole invites other family members to Atlanta. At 11, BET previews ''Brothers to Brutha,'' a reality series about the five brothers in the R&B group Brutha.
 10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT Jesse McCartney (far left, with Ray Abruzzo) guest stars as a teenage ''saint'' at a high school where girls can join one of two groups: the one that advocates chastity or the one that promotes pregnancy.
 10 P.M. (Lifetime) BLUSH: THE SEARCH FOR THE NEXT GREAT MAKE-UP ARTIST Nine contestants wield mascara wands in this new series. The grand prize: a contract as a professional artist with Max Factor, $100,000 and a job on a photo shoot for InStyle magazine. 
 10 P.M. (Logo) RICK & STEVE: THE HAPPIEST GAY COUPLE IN ALL THE WORLD The boys are back. And they're still happy (and even more eager to offend, if Logo's publicists are to be believed). In this Season 2 premiere of the stop-motion animated series, Rick (the voice of Will Matthews) and Steve (Peter Paige) await the birth of Dana's baby -- and the revelation of which one of them is the father. Alan Cumming plays Chuck, Steve's cranky best friend. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); FILM DIRECTORS (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (61%); PARALYSIS (50%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (72%); KARL ROVE (57%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (51%); TAYLOR SWIFT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (77%) IRAQ (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



498 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Idea of Cuts to Health Care And Education Causes a Stir

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Hospital advocacy groups and public employees unions have a message for Gov. David A. Paterson: Not so fast.
 Following Mr. Paterson's comments over the weekend that he would most likely ask for deep cuts in money for schools and Medicaid, and might even try to renegotiate labor contracts, the groups that would bear the brunt of those losses pushed back forcefully on Monday.
 The president of the state's largest union of public workers, the Civil Service Employees Association, flatly rejected the idea of reopening union contracts -- a move that would allow the state to renegotiate wages and benefits that are less costly. 
 The union's president, Danny Donohue, said Mr. Paterson's suggestion was counterproductive. ''The governor knows, or should know, that reopening contracts is not acceptable to C.S.E.A.,'' Mr. Donohue said in a written statement. ''Any serious businessperson knows that a contract is a contract.''
 Randi Weingarten, head of New York City's public school teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers, warned that cutting financing midyear threatened chaos for districts that have already budgeted for the current school year.
 ''When you do something midyear, you destabilize the entire school system,'' Ms. Weingarten said. ''Budget cuts next year are bad enough. But at least you've planned for them.''
 Hospital groups, which said they were still trying to manage the effects of the reductions approved by the Legislature in August, said they would resist further cuts unless there was a sense of shared sacrifice.
 ''We will fight in an animated and energetic way if somehow health care is being targeted, because lives are at stake here,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a group that lobbies on behalf of hospitals. ''If everybody's pitching in, then we'll try to pitch in.''
 And some suggested that it would be premature to start cutting so deeply now when it was not known yet if Congress would pass a financial stimulus package that included assistance for the states. 
 ''We're two months away from a new administration coming to Washington in which there's a clear indication that they intend to help,'' said Daniel Sisto, president of the Healthcare Association of New York State.
 As resistant as teachers unions and hospital groups might be to having their budgets trimmed, plugging the expected $1.5 billion budget deficit without their help would be virtually impossible. Financing for health care and education represents the two largest items in the state's budget.
 That reality seems to have sunken in with some. Some union leaders and health care officials said they could not assume that any area of the budget would be untouchable when the Legislature convenes for a special session on Nov. 18 to try to close the deficit. 
 ''We're in a very serious situation,'' Ms. Weingarten said. ''I think that lots of things have to be looked at this time.''
 Added Mr. Sisto: ''Certainly everybody recognizes this is a massive problem and that all sectors have to participate in solving it.''
 The targets of Mr. Paterson's proposed cuts have ideas of their own about how they would like to see the budget gap closed. Two of the most commonly cited fiscal solutions are tapping into the state's $1.2 billion reserve and raising income taxes on the state's highest earners.
 ''Where's the personal income tax? Where's the rainy-day fund? Where's education? What's being done about medical malpractice to lower our cost of business?'' Mr. Raske said.
 As of now, the governor is unwilling to go along with some of the fixes that others are suggesting. He has said he is opposed to tapping the rainy-day reserves. He has also said he would not support a tax increase.
 Mr. Paterson also faced criticism that his budget office had not adequately planned for the shortfall and did not have a solid approach to solving it. Some noted that the governor had already called the Legislature back in August to cut the budget because the state's original projections were wrong.
 ''This should be done in one comprehensive manner,'' Mr. Sisto said, adding that he thought the budget for the fiscal year that starts in April and the current deficit should be tackled in one session early in 2009. ''I would like to take a closer look at their projections for 2009-10 instead of acting on the figures of the week.''
 Mr. Paterson's comments that money for schools and Medicaid would likely be cut were a harsh reminder to the groups that represent teachers and hospitals that in this battered economy, their status as protected species appeared to be coming to an end.
 ''None of us in our adult lifetimes have seen a situation like this,'' Ms. Weingarten said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); MEDICAID (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); APPROVALS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (57%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



499 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Says American Loans Still Cloud Its Outlook

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Two leading European banks delivered surprises to investors on Monday. One, HSBC Holdings, reported deeper problems at its American unit, while another, Banco Santander, reversed course and said it would sell shares to raise more capital.
 HSBC, the biggest bank in Europe, still reported a rise in third-quarter pretax profit on the back of its growing Asian business, as well as asset sales and accounting gains. But it said it had set aside $4.3 billion to cover bad loans at its American unit in the quarter, more than analysts had expected.
 The United States business was among the first to fall victim to the subprime mortgage market more than a year ago. 
 HSBC's chief executive, Michael Geoghegan, said he could not predict when bad loans at the American unit might peak. ''Whilst the mortgage portfolio matured,'' he said, ''the fact is that consumer lending and credit card debt is linked to the economy.''
 The United States unit would further deteriorate ''in the near to medium term,'' he said in a conference call Monday.
 HSBC has so far weathered the turmoil in the financial markets better than most of its rivals, mainly because it had profited from continuing growth in Asia, where it generates about 65 percent of its pretax profit. The bank did not have to tap the British government for funds to meet capital requirements as it attracted more customer deposits. Its shares have dropped 12 percent this year, less than those of most of its European rivals, including BNP Paribas, Santander and UniCredit.
 But some analysts warned that as growth began to slow in developing economies, HSBC would find it harder to compensate for its ailing American business. 
 ''The U.S. business will continue to burn capital as impairment charges are likely to rise next year, and we are seeing clear signs that things in emerging markets slow down,'' said Irfan Younus, a banking analyst at NCB Stockbrokers in London. ''The cushion for losses is no longer there, so it's going to hit their earnings.''
 The rising impairment charges were sobering news for some investors who had hoped that bad loans at HSBC's American unit, the former Household International, peaked in the second quarter. HSBC booked a gain of $2.4 billion from the sale of a handful of French regional banking units but had $600 million of write-downs on credit assets in the third quarter and wrote down $4.8 billion on asset-backed securities. HSBC's shares fell 1.5 percent on Monday in London.
 Mr. Geoghegan said he expected growth in Asia to slow but to ''remain stronger'' and ''relatively more resilient.'' The International Monetary Fund cut its 2009 growth forecast for economies of emerging and developing countries last week to 5.1 percent, from the 6.1 percent it predicted in October. 
 HSBC said it was still considering the dividend for the fourth quarter and would announce a decision on March 2, when it reports its full-year earnings. The bank said that despite the impairment charges it remained ''strongly capitalized at the current time'' and ''happy'' with its capital base. 
 In contrast, the Spanish bank Banco Santander said that it would raise 7.2 billion euros, or $9 billion, by selling shares to increase its capital. The bank bowed to market pressure to increase its capital cushion after it announced three acquisitions in as many months while the financial market crisis deteriorated and interbank lending rates remained relatively high. The chief executive, Alfredo Saenz, said as recently as last month that the bank's capital was ''more than sufficient.''
 Santander, which agreed to buy Sovereign Bancorp and parts of the British lenders Bradford & Bingley and Alliance & Leicester, plans to sell 1.6 billion shares at 4.5 euros each in a fully underwritten offer, it said. Santander's shares fell 5 percent, to 7.92 euros, in Madrid on Monday in anticipation of the stock dilution after a share sale.
 Antonio Ramirez, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London, said the rights offer was ''an overall positive for the bank'' because it addressed concerns about mounting investor pressure on Santander to follow some of its rivals and replenish its capital base.
 Jose Antonio Alvarez, Santander's chief financial officer, said the 2009 dividend would be unchanged and the bank planned to earmark 45 to 55 percent of profit for the payout. 
 Unlike Santander, HSBC said it was difficult to find attractive buying opportunities in developed economies as a result of the financial markets turmoil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); EXECUTIVES (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (74%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); SANT (LIS) (74%); SANT (BIT) (74%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (74%); SAN (NYSE) (74%); SAN (MCE) (74%); SAN (BMV) (74%); BNC (LSE) (74%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



500 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Why Obama May Assent To Deals

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
''Antitrust theory is theoretical. Losing jobs and plants is real.'' 
 So said David Boies, the superlawyer the government hired in the 1990s to bust up the Microsoft Corporation. 
 It was Saturday, just four days after Senator Barack Obama won the presidential election, and Mr. Boies was already laying out how the deal landscape in general, and Washington's antitrust policy in particular, were likely to change over the next four years. 
 We were having lunch on the Upper East Side, and Mr. Boies, between bites of salmon and asparagus, was working his cellphone for yet another high-profile deal: He's representing Maurice R. Greenberg, known as Hank, in his fight against the American International Group, the troubled insurance giant Mr. Greenberg used to run. 
 Speculation was swirling that the government was about to overhaul its rescue of A.I.G. (the announcement came Monday) and Mr. Boies was lobbying to help shareholders like Mr. Greenberg. 
 But A.I.G. wasn't the main topic of conversation. Mr. Boies was more focused on the challenges the new administration faces and the possibility of a wave of mergers and acquisitions, consolidating some of the biggest names in the country.
 Wait a minute.
 Isn't the conventional wisdom that deal-making is going to be tougher under Mr. Obama and a Democratic administration? 
 To the contrary, Mr. Boies said. At least over the next two years, the exact opposite will be true. 
 Mr. Obama might want to police antitrust issues, but the economy is in such sorry shape that he probably won't be able to, Mr. Boies said. It just won't be politically palatable to kill deals that could save some jobs. 
 ''Preserving jobs and economic stability will be perceived as more important than preserving competition,'' Mr. Boies said. 
 Washington, of course, has tilted toward would-be monopolists for decades, starting with President Reagan. Mr. Obama, of all people, could be the one who takes things the other way. 
 It's not quite a Nixon-in-China moment, but it has that feeling. We've been deregulating and fighting new rules for three decades. Everyone thinks that's going to change now, given the catastrophic failures of the financial industry. 
 But the cold, economic reality, at least according to Mr. Boies, who supported Mr. Obama and previously worked for Al Gore during the recount in Florida, means politicians literally won't be able to afford to worry about anticompetitive practices as much -- which is good for the winners (and their deal makers), but maybe not so good for the rest of us. 
 The prospect gives Mr. Boies, who runs Boies, Schiller & Flexner, some pause. He pointed to the huge consolidation that took place in the 1930s, often of distressed companies, but also of other behemoths like utilities.
 ''The Supreme Court decisions that came out of the 1930s approved conduct that was clearly against antitrust law,'' he said.
 The question now is whether we will see a handful of otherwise objectionable deals as big companies claim that the sky is falling and that a deal is being done out of necessity. (General Motors-Chrysler comes to mind.)
 In the last several years, we saw companies like Sirius and XM Satellite Radio merge, squeezing though in the last days of the Bush administration in hopes of guaranteeing passage of the deal.
 Likewise, one reason Microsoft privately said it dropped its bid for Yahoo last summer was that it worried the deal wouldn't be approved after the Bush administration left office.
 ''The Bush administration presented a special window of opportunity,'' Mr. Boies said, saying that if his prediction is wrong it will only be because so many companies that sought to merge had already done so.
 Our conversation turned to the decision by Google to bail out of its deal with Yahoo. I asked why the deal was going to be turned down by the government, especially in the waning days of the administration.
 ''At the end of every administration the staff tends to have more influence. The staff tends to be more interested in long-term antitrust policy,'' he said. ''The political people have already moved on.''
 As he ordered a dessert of mixed berries -- strawberries and raspberries, ''no blueberries'' -- he started in another worry: that the consolidation of financial services companies won't just create firms that are ''too big to fail'' but firms, as he said, that will be ''too big to compete.'' 
 He suggested that while the firms would be heavily regulated, that was no replacement for antitrust enforcement. ''The regulators end up being, with a few notable exceptions, co-opted by the industries they regulate,'' he said, ticking off airlines and railroads as examples. 
 ''You do not get a pro-consumer effect that you get in a free market,'' Mr. Boies said. The biggest regulatory challenge the nation will face in the Obama administration is not antitrust enforcement, he said, but our protectionist views to outside capital, especially when we may need it most.
 A proponent of globalization, which he said helps ''recycle petro dollars,'' Mr. Boies predicted, for example, that ''there would be huge opposition to Citigroup getting taken over by a player in the Middle East or Asia.'' He added, ''We still have to come to grips we live in a global economy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Boies represented the government in the 1990s Microsoft case and is working with Maurice Greenberg against A.I.G. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (87%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); MERGERS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); INSURANCE (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



501 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: A Deal Taxpayers May Live to Regret

BYLINE: By DWIGHT CASS and ROB COX

 BODY:
So what, exactly, is a bank?
To the benefit of American Express, the Federal Reserve is using an increasingly liberal standard to decide which businesses can obtain banking licenses and gain access to government lending. Investment banks, thrifts and even GMAC, the troubled auto lender, have come knocking. In the latest twist, the Fed says that AmEx, the credit card and travel giant, can call itself a bank. American taxpayers may come to regret it.
The move looks good for American Express. True, it has to put up with more oversight from the Fed. But in return, it can tap the central bank's pantheon of lending facilities, where AmEx can hand over securities backed by its credit card receivables as collateral for inexpensive loans. That's important, since the market for such securities screeched to a halt in October, making it harder for credit card companies to finance their businesses. 
The Fed also waived its usual 30-day waiting period to approve the application, which gives AmEx the option to apply for a capital injection from the Treasury's $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program before the Friday deadline.
But for taxpayers, the Fed's move looks risky. The central bank has already strayed outside its strict regulatory mandate with its $150 billion rescue of the American International Group, the insurer. Losses in A.I.G.'s huge finance business made the rescue seem necessary.
The merits of extending support to a credit card company, which poses no systemic risk but has been reporting steady deterioration in its credit portfolio for more than a year, are less clear. The move may also embolden other types of financial institutions to seek the Fed's shelter.
Granted, the contraction of consumer credit is squeezing the American economy. So the Fed's move may be worthwhile if it helps to maintain lending by AmEx.
That's not a sure thing.
Banks have been sitting on the money given to them by the Treasury, or used it for acquisitions. If the Fed allows AmEx and others to do the same, while still exposing taxpayers to consumer credit, the danger posed by its mission creep will be clear.
Credit Crisis Ironies
The credit squeeze is surely no laughing matter. But it is starting to look like someone's version of a twisted joke. The sorrows of bank failures and job cuts just took turns that even Hollywood's best minds would struggle to manufacture.
Take Franklin Bank, a failing Houston-based bank with $3.7 billion of deposits and 46 branches that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized on Friday. The government facilitated its purchase by a competitor, the aptly named Prosperity Bank.
In one sense, Franklin was no big deal. It was small and ranked No. 19 on the list of collapsed banks in the current housing downturn. But Franklin mattered in another way.
It was started less than a decade ago by its chairman, Lewis Ranieri. For those with a historical bent -- or a copy of ''Liar's Poker'' on the shelf -- this is significant. Mr. Ranieri, for all intents and purposes, is the godfather of the mortgage bond market.
In the late 1970s, Mr. Ranieri ran the trading desk at Salomon Brothers that created the securitization business, which begat the asset-backed market, which gave birth to the collateralized debt obligation, which ushered in today's financial turmoil. So it is a tad ironic that the bank that he built was felled by the housing crisis.
Back on Wall Street, there was another stranger-than-fiction story. Goldman Sachs -- the temple of investment banking -- let go of roughly 10 percent of its staff of 33,000. This might not seem to be a big deal either. The whole industry sheds jobs in fallow periods.
But among Goldman's casualties was William Tanona. Unlike Mr. Ranieri, he probably won't make the financial history books. Yet his departure may be more telling than the demise of Mr. Ranieri's banking business in Texas. That's because Mr. Tanona was a research analyst specializing in investment banks. The message: Goldman no longer deems it worthwhile to cover the industry it leads.
Irony often ties tragedy with farce. The stories of Mr. Ranieri and Mr. Tanona certainly fit the bill -- it's hard to know whether to laugh or cry. DWIGHT CASS and ROB COX
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The headquarters of American Express in New York City. AmEx will become a bank and be eligible for aid from the Federal Reserve's Troubled Asset Relief Program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (76%); INSURANCE (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%); FIRST PLACE FINANCIAL CORP (51%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



502 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: A Warm Front Around the Corner

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
WE'RE all watching, all worrying, those of us who love restaurants and believe that the world is better off with more of them.
 How many will fail, and how quickly? Are the signs of a culinary slowdown already upon us?
 I look around an ambitious new Asian restaurant on the Upper West Side, note that only a third of the tables are occupied, and wonder: Is this because it's Sunday night? Or because it's the fall of 2008, a season for scrimping and hoarding? 
 I look around an ambitious new French restaurant in TriBeCa. It has all the right ingredients for a buzzy, mobbed debut, but there are empty seats at a time when there shouldn't be. Are the managers not booking the room entirely, so that the kitchen can adjust gradually to a full house? Or are dwindling expense accounts to blame?
 Then I look around Market Table, in Greenwich Village. It's business as usual, which means brisk business, happy business, a reliable hum of robust conversation, an air of conviviality unpolluted by economic angst. 
 In this restaurant's second year, as in its first, on almost any night of the week, there's not a perch to spare, at least not between 7:30 and 10:30 p.m. The cooks in the open kitchen work frantically, churning out starters of beet salad and sides of acorn squash and main courses of crisp-skinned roasted chicken, because who doesn't love roasted chicken?
 If you want to know which restaurants are most likely to sail through these straits, your answer is here.
 And it is, indeed, something of a cliche. What makes Market Table work are precisely those attributes supposedly prized most in anxious times.
 What makes it special is how expertly it embodies them.
 It's warm. When you walk in you're greeted expansively and made to feel that the restaurant is privileged to have you, not that you're privileged to have it. 
 It's soothing. At night the votive candles on every table flicker like torches in a village without power: vital points of reference, and pretty much the only way to see.
 It's humble. If diners want their seared scallops and their hanger steak, then Market Table will oblige, though it will find small, clever ways to distinguish itself in the process. The steak, marinated in sangria to tender effect, shares a plate with grilled romaine that's dressed in the fashion of a Caesar, only what look like big croutons turn out to be diced potato.
 It's unambiguous. Intent on big flavors and payoffs, it adds both goat cheese and a horseradish cream to the beets. It blasts Arctic char -- whose skin is even crisper and more reflective of an ace kitchen than the chicken's -- with cream and crunchy slivers of fried onion. It blasts cauliflower with capers and anchovy. There's bacon with the skate wing and bacon with the brussels sprouts and pancetta with pork loin: pig upon pig.
 It's generous. Many entrees have a bonus they could get by without. The root vegetable risotto beneath roasted halibut isn't just faultlessly prepared; it's like a dish within the dish, and an only slightly bigger serving could justifiably get its own billing. With grilled lamb chops comes something that visually resembles polenta but isn't as easily diagnosed. It's a Gouda-potato fondue, and it's terrific.
 Market Table's roots are in the smart, populist Jimmy Bradley-Danny Abrams school of unceremoniously fine dining, from which it has taken instruction and staff members.
 It's the progeny in particular of the Little Owl, and might well be considered the Medium-size Owl, somewhat less consistent but also less cramped, with a prime corner location (the former site of Shopsin's) that gives it enormous windows facing two directions. They're like movie screens onto which Village life is projected.
 It started out as part store, part restaurant, its front room stocked with high-end groceries. That was a hot trend for five minutes 15 months ago, but the hankering for more seats at Market Table was immediate and intense, so last summer it eliminated the store to create 18 of them. It can now accommodate 60 diners. The kitchen -- run by the chef Mikey Price, a principal owner along with the chef Joey Campanaro -- has adjusted just fine. 
 Prices, inevitably, have gone up. On a recent menu the median entree was $27.
 But that's a fair deal, considering the portions.
 One slice of ''Grammy's apple cake'' could easily satisfy two people. One bowl of the pumpkin pudding could almost feed three.
 And the wine list has many bottles for $50 or less.
 This sort of restaurant -- a comfy wool blanket, emphasizing good sense over high style -- doesn't have more intrinsic merit than an acrobatic dazzler or idiosyncratic pioneer.
 But with winter looming in more ways than one, it has a logic and an appeal that are potent. Durable, too.
 Market Table
 ** 
 54 Carmine Street (Bedford Street), Greenwich Village ; (212) 255-2100. Markettablenyc.com
 ATMOSPHERE Two simple rooms with exposed brick are enlivened by an open kitchen and two enormous windows onto the Greenwich Village scene.
 SOUND LEVEL Loud.
 RECOMMENDED DISHES Beet salad; beef carpaccio; duck and kale soup; Arctic char; skate wing; hanger steak; halibut; cauliflower; apple cake; polka dot cheesecake. 
 WINE LIST Varied in region and style, with many bottles for $50 or less.
 PRICE RANGE Dinner appetizers, $10 to $15; entrees, $20 to $32; desserts, $8 to $10.
 HOURS Lunch from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Brunch from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., weekends. Dinner from 5:30 to 11 p.m., Monday through Thursday, to midnight Friday and Saturday, and from 5 to 10 p.m., Sunday.
 RESERVATIONS Call at least three weeks ahead for prime times.
 CREDIT CARDS All major. 
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Ramp for small rise to front door; restrooms on same level as dining room but not officially accessible.
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD: Wide windows at Market Table welcome views of Greenwich Village.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



503 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: On NATO's Table, Ukraine And a Test of Russian Ties

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When the presidents and prime ministers of every NATO nation met in Bucharest, Romania, in April, they agreed unanimously that Ukraine and Georgia, two former Soviet republics, would someday, without a doubt, enter the Western alliance.
 But in the face of Russian resistance and even some recalcitrance within the alliance, the leaders could not agree to formally invite either Ukraine or Georgia to the ritual of requirements, reforms and deadlines. It was the diplomatic equivalent of proposing marriage without setting the wedding day. And it was a notable rejection of American policy, which had long sought to begin the formalities of the engagement, known in NATO parlance as a Membership Action Plan.
 Instead, an ad hoc coalition of longtime NATO members -- Germany, France, Italy and Spain -- continued to block the desires of Washington and the newer members of Central and Eastern Europe to bring the two countries into the fold. 
 Not just alliance membership, but the tone of relations between Russia and the West will be on the table on Wednesday and Thursday when Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates joins NATO defense ministers in Estonia, a tiny republic adjoining Russia's Baltic coast, to discuss how to bring Ukraine, at least, rapidly into the alliance. 
 Mr. Gates and allies pushing Ukraine's membership agree that the war between Russia and Georgia in August gave them more evidence of the need for shoring up NATO's commitments.
 ''I'm not so sure this is a meeting the secretary would have attended had the Russians chosen not to invade Georgia,'' said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary. ''But in the aftermath of that, the secretary wanted to send a very strong signal of his support for Ukraine and the Baltic states and our other NATO allies from Eastern Europe that the United States stands firmly behind them.''
 At the same time, however, the debate over ''Who shot first?'' in the war between Russia and Georgia reaffirmed the views of those allies that want to slow membership, especially for Georgia. As details emerge that point to provocative, perhaps even foolhardy behavior by Georgia's leadership, some NATO-nation diplomats are relieved that Georgia was not in the alliance.
 Under the NATO charter, an attack on one ally requires all to rise to its defense. In the case of the August conflict, had Georgia been a NATO member, the alliance could have been pulled into war with Russia.
 Only Ukraine's membership is on the agenda this week at the special session of NATO defense ministers. To be sure, Ukraine is a special case, for the alliance and for Russia.
 With 46 million people and vast agricultural and industrial resources, Ukraine is set strategically between Russia and the newer NATO members that were separate nations under Moscow's hegemony in the Warsaw Pact. Ukraine would be the largest and most important former Soviet republic to enter the alliance. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania never had such political, economic and cultural ties to Russia itself.
 That helps explain why Russia reluctantly accepted NATO membership for its former Warsaw Pact partners, and even for the Baltic states -- but has drawn a line at Ukraine.
 ''Russia has issued all kinds of threats and warnings,'' said a senior administration official who, like other policy makers, agreed to discuss the NATO session in advance under customary diplomatic ground rules of anonymity.
 To counter those warnings, the Bush administration will make the case to the Kremlin that Ukraine's entry into NATO is a decision to be made by Ukrainians, and is not a threat to Russia. 
 ''These are people making choices about their own future,'' said another senior United States government official. ''This is not encirclement of Russia. This is not a NATO strategy going against Russian interests.''
 While in Estonia, NATO defense ministers will discuss how to push Ukraine's military toward requirements for membership, including transparency in budgeting and movement toward a professional military.
 ''We have to take a 'tough love' approach with Ukraine,'' said another senior official. ''It is clear that they need to deliver on reforms -- not just military reforms, but democratic reforms. Their government appears to be in a perpetual state of crisis.''
 A formal decision on offering a Membership Action Plan to Ukraine awaits an alliance meeting of foreign ministers in Brussels next month, and there is no evidence that allies wishing to slow Ukraine's membership have altered their view. The issue will turn on politics in the United States as much as in Ukraine.
 The Bush administration has invested heavily in NATO membership for Ukraine. President Bush stopped there en route to the April alliance summit. Vice President Dick Cheney visited Georgia and Ukraine in September to express the administration's support for the quick entry of both into the alliance.
 President-elect Barack Obama is not expected to make clear his official views on NATO expansion or Washington's relations with Russia until after Inauguration Day on Jan. 20.
 Election politics are adding uncertainty in Ukraine, as well.
 Yulia V. Tymoshenko, the prime minister, and Viktor A. Yushchenko, the president, are former allies now in a bitter power struggle, with new elections possible in mid-December -- within days after the NATO foreign ministers' session. Leadership during the financial crisis is central to the vote, but Mr. Yushchenko has adopted a tougher approach toward Russia than Ms. Tymoshenko. He is pushing for NATO membership, while Ukraine's population, 17 percent ethnic Russian, is divided on the issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); MARRIAGE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ROMANIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UKRAINE (92%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ESTONIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



504 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Wide Sell-Off on Grim Retail News; Commodity Prices Also Go Lower

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Shares on Wall Street skidded on Tuesday in a fitful day of trading amid signals that the economic downturn was lashing well-known American brands from Liz Claiborne to Starbucks to T. J. Maxx.
 Not even a short-lived 268-point rally could pull the Dow out of its doldrums. After languishing deep in negative territory, financial markets climbed sharply late in the day. But the run stalled out, and markets pulled back to close at two-week lows.
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which was down 300 points at midday, fell 176.58 points, or 2 percent, to 8,693.96. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite fell 35.84 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,580.90, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 20.26 points, also 2.2 percent, at 898.95. 
 The broad sell-off raked across the spectrum, hammering companies as diverse as General Motors, Delta Airlines, Nordstrom and Microsoft, all of which ended lower.
 ''Volatility still remains in these markets,'' said Ryan Larson, head equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management. ''We've still got a lot of fears out there, still a lot of headwinds. There are a lot of questions regarding when enough is enough.''
 There was no end in sight on Tuesday, analysts said, only more signs of weak corporate earnings, economic contraction and reduced consumer spending. 
 The gloomy mood was driven by falling profits at retailers like the coffee chain Starbucks and the discount clothing chain TJX Companies, which owns T. J. Maxx and Marshall's department stores. Adding to the woes was the bankruptcy filing of the electronics retailer Circuit City Stores.
 On the housing front, government-controlled mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced a program to stem the tide of home foreclosures while a major home builder reported sobering revenue.
 Shares in Toll Brothers, the builder of luxury homes, fell slightly after the company reported a sharp decline in sales through the end of October. Toll's revenue from home building in the last three months fell 41 percent, to $691 million, from $1.17 billion over the same period in 2007. 
 About 30 percent of Toll's contracts from the current quarter have canceled. In a statement accompanying the numbers, the chief executive, Robert I. Toll, made a plea for more government intervention in the housing market.
 ''We urge Congress to stimulate demand by reducing mortgage rates and fees and by providing incentives such as a buyer tax credit for the purchase of all types of homes,'' he said in a statement. ''We believe these initiatives would offer the greatest benefit for the taxpayer's dollar.''
 Shares in Starbucks also declined, falling 2 percent, after the coffee chain reported Monday that its net income had fallen 97 percent as it closed down 600 stores and laid off 1,000 employees as part of a reorganization. 
 G.M. had another rough day; its stock slipped below $3, to $2.92 a share, its lowest price in decades. On Monday, as politicians discussed a federal bailout for the American auto industry, an analyst downgraded G.M. shares to sell and set the company's target stock price at $0. Shares in automakers including Toyota, the Ford Motor Company and Honda also slid. ''Everyone agrees that we're in a recession, so the markets have priced that in,'' said Douglas M. Peta, an independent market strategist. ''But I don't think they've priced in what appears to be an increasingly sharp and increasingly protracted recession.''
 Shrinking portfolios, slumping earnings and corporate cutbacks have hobbled consumer spending and employment numbers, and those symptoms of a slowdown are washing back onto the markets.
 ''All of these measures taken together suggest that the slowing is worse than investors had expected, and that it is occurring very, very abruptly,'' Mr. Peta said.
 The slowdown continued to weigh on energy prices.
 Crude oil prices in New York dipped below $60, settling at $59.33 a barrel, down $3.08 for the day. As oil prices dwindled on worries of falling demand, shares in energy companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Royal Dutch Shell declined. The Hess Corporation was down 9.1 percent. 
 Prices for commodities like gold, sugar, coffee and cattle slid on Tuesday as traders worried that a worldwide slowdown would suppress demand. The falloff in raw-materials prices is hurting developing countries with economies built on exports, and on Tuesday, the World Bank trimmed its growth forecast for developing economies to 4.5 percent, from 6.4 percent. 
 ''I don't think that anyone is trying to ascribe rational valuation to anything right now,'' Mark Mathias, chief executive of Quantum Asset Management, said of the commodities sell-off. ''They're just selling it because they can sell it.''
 The bond markets were closed for Veterans Day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange Tuesday. The stock markets declined as signs continued of weakened corporate profits, economic contraction and a pullback in consumer spending.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (88%); ELECTRONICS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%); TAX LAW (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); TJX COS INC (66%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); VOYAGEUR ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: TJX (NYSE) (66%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



505 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: White House Scales Back A Mortgage Relief Plan

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is backing away from proposals to have the government refinance a broad swath of homeowners who face foreclosure after taking out subprime mortgages and other high-risk loans over the last few years.
 The clearest sign of retreat came on Tuesday, when administration officials announced a much more limited plan to help people who have become seriously delinquent on conventional loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-controlled mortgage finance companies.
 The plan announced on Tuesday could lead to lower monthly payments for several hundred thousand homeowners, according to officials. But it would have virtually no impact on the millions of people who took out expensive subprime loans and who are at the heart of the nation's foreclosure crisis. 
 The plan fell well short of one championed by the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Sheila C. Bair. As recently as two weeks ago, Ms. Bair thought she was close to an agreement with the Treasury Department on a plan to spend as much as $50 billion to modify mortgages and keep people in their homes.
 But people close to Ms. Bair said Treasury officials broke off the discussion early last week. 
 Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced their new plan, Ms. Bair declared that it was inadequate and pointedly said that the government had spent hundreds of billions of dollars to bail out financial institutions like American International Group, the giant insurer. 
 The plan ''falls short of what is needed to achieve wide-scale modifications of distressed mortgages,'' Ms. Bair said in a written statement on Tuesday. ''As we lend and invest hundreds of billions of dollars to help institutions suffering leveraged losses from defaulting mortgages, we must also devote some of that money to fixing the front-end problem: too many unaffordable home loans.''
 Senior Treasury officials said they were still working on ideas to reduce foreclosures and had not yet rejected Ms. Bair's proposal.
 ''There is an ongoing process to examine additional foreclosure prevention proposals such as the F.D.I.C. proposal,'' said Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 Democratic lawmakers have become increasingly impatient with the Treasury Department's implementation of the $700 billion bailout program -- known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP -- that Congress approved in early November. 
 So far, Mr. Paulson has committed $265 billion out of the initial $350 billion that Congress approved to prop up banks and financial institutions. Those commitments consist of $125 billion for capital injections into the nation's nine biggest banking companies; $100 billion for injections in regional banks; and $40 billion to buy up preferred shares in American International Group.
 ''I'd like to see them use more of the money in TARP to help homeowners,'' said Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. ''I think we've given them more authority than they have used.''
 To be sure, the program announced on Tuesday by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could lead to significantly lower mortgage payments for several hundred thousand people facing foreclosures.
 The program would be open to people who are at least three months delinquent on mortgages that are either owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. The goal would be to reduce the monthly payments on all of those loans -- by stretching the term to 40 years, or lowering the interest rate, or even lowering the amount of the loan -- so that payments would not be higher than 38 percent of a family's monthly income.
 ''Foreclosures hurt families, their neighbors, whole communities and the overall housing market,'' said James B. Lockhart, director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 But the plan directly affects only those people with loans controlled by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and those mortgages are mostly conservative ''conforming'' mortgages rather than the high-risk subprime loans.
 The foreclosure rate on loans owned by Fannie Mae is about 1.72 percent. By contrast, the foreclosure rate on adjustable-rate subprime loans is nearly 20 percent, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
 Treasury officials acknowledged that the program would not be a cure-all. 
 ''There is no silver bullet to address the housing downturn,'' said Neel Kashkari, the assistant Treasury secretary who oversees the bailout program. ''We are experiencing a necessary correction and the sooner we work through it, the sooner housing can again contribute to our economic growth.''
 But housing advocates were more skeptical. 
 ''It's a positive step for the loans that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac control, but it doesn't solve the foreclosure crisis for the country,'' said Eric Stein, a senior vice president of the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit organization that has called for tougher action. ''More needs to be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Lockhart of the Federal Housing Finance Agency announced a plan to ease certain Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgages.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 Sheila Bair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation called for modified mortgages.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); APPROVALS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (90%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



506 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: The Last Hurrah?

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
VILLE PLATTE, La. -- Late Friday afternoon, ankles taped, uniforms on, the Ville Platte High School Bulldogs boarded their team buses and drove into the sunset of a season, fearing that nightfall would soon come for the entire school.
''I'm full of emotions, but I don't know what to feel,'' Henry Alfred, a junior linebacker, said, knowing he might be playing his team's final football game of this or any future season. ''I want to give it all I got, but I don't know if I want to cry or be mad.''
This tiny, rural town in Cajun country is struggling again to find its racial equilibrium. A 43-year-old desegregation case remained unresolved on Nov. 4 as voters narrowly rejected a property tax increase to build a new Ville Platte High, which has faced decades of neglect since white flight accompanied integration in 1969.
It was the third ''no'' vote on a bond proposal in little more than a year. Now the predominantly black school of 400 students faces closure next May at the urging of the United States Justice Department, which has called Ville Platte High's deficient academic programs and deteriorated facilities a vestige of past discrimination. 
A hearing on the school's fate is scheduled for Dec. 15 before the federal judge overseeing the case. If Ville Platte High ceases to exist, officials said, this town of 8,316 would be the only county seat in Louisiana's 64 parishes without a public high school. Students would be dispersed to one or more of the other three high schools in Evangeline Parish. But no Bulldog wants to be a Mamou Green Demon or a Pine Prairie Panther or a Basile Bearcat next season. Some said they might simply give up football.
''It would be some hard thinking,'' said Chris Frank, a sophomore fullback. ''I couldn't see myself in no other jersey.''
He and his teammates may not have a choice.
Last March, the Justice Department dismissed as abysmal the Evangeline Parish school board's efforts to improve the 70-year-old brick structure and academic performance at Ville Platte High. The school is considered a failure under the No Child Left Behind Act and has been labeled academically unacceptable by the state.
In a court filing, the federal government pointed to ''makeshift library shelves,'' chain locks on doors ''so warped that they would not close,'' and concern that exterior walls of one classroom ''will begin to collapse soon.''
The school's athletic facilities are run-down. The visitors' grandstand at the football field has a wide crack along its brick facade, and the classrooms beneath the bleachers are no longer considered safe. The boys' basketball team has been a recent state power, but the court is not of regulation size, so the gym cannot be used for playoff games.
The Bulldogs finished second at the 2006 state track meet, a remarkable achievement considering that their track's rubberized surface has long worn away, leaving an abandoned oval of grass and cracked asphalt. If a light needs replacing at the football field, Coach Roy Serie said, ''You're talking two years.''
School officials, black and white, agree that Ville Platte High needs a new home or at least an extreme makeover. But Toni Hamlin, the Evangeline Parish schools superintendent since 2007, disputes the Justice Department's sharp rebuke. She said that all renovations mandated in a 2004 federal school reorganization plan had been completed. Some $2.7 million in repairs have been made, including a new metal roof, library improvements, a new science lab and an upgraded computer lab.
The school board is committed to continued academic and facility improvements in an attempt to keep the high school open, she said.
''All small towns are struggling for their survival,'' said Hamlin, who is white. ''It's the high school that should be the hub of that community.''
Peggy Edwards, the principal at Ville Platte High and an alumna, said she worried that some students might drop out instead of transferring. Some might face traveling 30 miles each way to school, and could be discouraged from participating in extracurricular activities, she said. What industry would come to a place with no public high school, she wondered. ''I see a perishing city,'' Edwards said.
The bonhomie of Cajun country is evident in Ville Platte's restaurants and stores. The city calls itself the swamp pop music and smoked meat capital of the world. It is also renowned for its squirrel hunting. The first weekend of each October, football is pushed to Thursday night, schools close on Friday and fathers and sons head into the woods for some 12-gauge bonding.
Yearly, Ville Platte High and the predominantly white Catholic school in town, Sacred Heart, play each other in the Tee Cotton Bowl, started as a unifying civic gesture in 2000. Yet, the city, which is about 60 percent black and 40 percent white, seems hopelessly divided about building a new high school.
''We've got good people in Ville Platte,'' said Gervis Lafleur, a school board member who is black. ''If you had told me a year ago that they would vote down a new school three times, I never would have believed it.''
Since October 2007, bond proposals were scaled down to $17 million from $28.5 million. Yet all three failed. The margin last July was 115 votes. Last week, the gap widened to 260 votes. That makes a half-dozen ballot rejections since the early 1980s.
Voters have given a number of reasons. A sales tax would be more equitably shared than a property tax. The school is too low-performing to rescue. Any new taxes would be considered excessive in an economic downturn, especially in Evangeline Parish, one of the state's poorest, where the median household income was less than $23,000 last year.
Several people said they danced around the issue of race, wanting not to believe it had influenced the failed votes, unable to convince themselves otherwise.
''I think a lot of our people in the white community feel it is unfair that they have to pay for a school their children do not attend,'' Lafleur, the school board member, said. ''But this is a public school. It's for everyone. When you fail your children, you fail.''
Black voters also bear some responsibility for not turning out in greater numbers, said Serie, the football coach, who is black. ''If we had just gone in and pressed a button, we wouldn't be having this problem,'' he said.
This season, the Bulldogs played resolute football in uncertain circumstances, though they lost five of their first eight games and had another one canceled by Hurricane Gustav. For Friday's finale, the team traveled to neighboring St. Landry Parish to face Port Barre High, a league rival and the fifth-ranked team in Class 2A.
''We want to be optimistic, but face it, this could be our last one,'' Serie told his players. ''Let's show Ville Platte, and Evangeline Parish, what kind of team they're trying to tamper with.''
Ville Platte fell behind, 7-0, but rallied as the team's top player, the senior receiver Rarlensee Nelson, caught two touchdown passes, giving the Bulldogs a 15-7 lead in the second quarter.
''Save our school!'' the band and the cheerleaders chanted. ''Save our school!''
By late in the fourth quarter, Ville Platte trailed again, 16-15. But the Bulldogs dug in, stopping Port Barre an inch from a first down at Ville Platte's 22. With 1 minute 29 seconds left, Nelson kicked the first field goal of his career, a 25-yarder, putting the Bulldogs ahead, 18-16. Playing defensive back, Nelson then batted away a pass on the game's final play, giving his school a victory in perhaps its final game.
He pumped his arm in celebration but later said he also felt sad.
''There's not going to be a school to come back to,'' Nelson said. ''No friends to come back and see.''
At the final whistle, Eradley Ben, a senior defensive back, let out a plaintive scream. ''Why close our school?'' he yelled. ''Why?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aging lockers are just part of the deteriorating sports facilities at Ville Platte High School. Below right, packed trophies in a condemned classroom.
Ville Platte players at halftime last Friday in what could have been their final game. A hearing on the school's fate is next month.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12)
 Coach Roy Serie with his Ville Platte players during last Friday's game against Port Barre. Left, quarterback Cody Jones. Ville Platte is in Evangeline Parish, one of Louisiana's poorest.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B14) MAP Map details area of Ville Platte. (pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); ATHLETES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); COUNTIES (69%); TAX LAW (68%); BONDS (67%); JUDGES (65%); PROPERTY TAX (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



507 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Even in Macao, a Gambling Mecca, Signs of a Slowdown

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Macao, the former Portuguese colony on the coast of southern China, has all it takes to compete with the gambling capitals of the world -- glamour, gaming-crazed customers and, as of last year, its own version of Venice's Rialto Bridge.
 Macao, now a special administrative zone within China, has become synonymous with the economic success of the country's growth. The enclave's prospects have drawn major investments in casinos from Western investors like the American billionaire Sheldon G. Adelson. 
 But as China's growth cools amid a global slowdown, Macao's gambling revenue is no longer growing as fast as it once were, and competition between the growing number of casinos is fierce.
 Now the downturn has claimed a prominent victim: the Las Vegas Sands, the struggling casino operator run by Mr. Adelson, said it was suspending construction on sites in Macao as it struggled to meet financing obligations.
 The company recently celebrated the one-year anniversary of the opening of the Venetian Macao and had hoped to capitalize on the region's gambling revenue, which has more than doubled since 2002. But gambling revenue dropped to $3.2 billion in the third quarter, 10 percent lower than the previous period.
 ''Given the current conditions in the global credit environment, we have elected to significantly slow the pace of our development activities'' in Macao, William Weidner, president and chief operating officer of Las Vegas Sands, said Monday.
 On Tuesday, Macao's chief executive, Edmund Ho, said the territory had no plans to help Las Vegas Sands with financing. 
 The decision by the Las Vegas Sands to stop work is partly because of problems elsewhere, and the drop-off in the Macao gambling boom has been aggravated by Chinese travel restrictions as the authorities seek to curb money laundering.
 But Macao's -- and Sands' -- difficulties are emblematic of the downturn of the Chinese economy. For a decade, China has been powering ahead at 10 percent growth or more, which until recently had fueled fears that the supercharged economy was overheating.
 The global downturn has taken its toll on China, slowing its pace of growth to 8 percent or less this year, and prompting an economic stimulus package worth some $586 billon.
 Tuesday brought fresh data that highlighted the challenges. Consumer price inflation -- once seen as a potential worry -- fell in October to a 17-month low of 4 percent. This was less than the 4.2 percent that economists had expected, and well below the 4.6 percent in September and the 8.7 percent peak in February.
 Economists said this was an indication that the Chinese economy had slowed significantly, with demand and prices dropping along with production. 
 Trade figures published Tuesday showed a record trade surplus of $35.24 billion in October. Exports rose more than expected, by 19.2 percent from a year earlier, holding up relatively well in the face of the global slowdown. But economists were concerned about weaker-than-expected growth in imports, which rose 15.6 percent, partly because of lower prices in raw materials, like oil.
 ''Domestic demand is slowing faster than external demand in China, and although export growth held up relatively well, the worst here is still to come,'' Tao Wang, an economist at UBS in China, said.
 The downturn in domestic spending -- notably weakness in the construction sector -- was especially worrying, Mr. Wang said. 
 This is now one of the government's main areas of action.
 Late Sunday, the Chinese government announced a $586 billion stimulus package. Although details on the breakdown are lacking, the package focuses on infrastructure spending -- airports, subways, railroads -- which will clearly bolster the beleaguered sector.
 But, said Ms. Wang, the impact of the stimulus package will not be felt for a while: ''It will take until the second half of next year until we see a recovery in housing and construction,'' she said.
 Until then, as growth continues to slow, the authorities are likely to come up with yet more stimulative measures. Many economists say they believe the authorities, who have already cut rates three times since mid-September, will do so again soon.
 Falling inflation permits the government to put in place ''proactive fiscal policy and appropriately accommodative monetary policy,'' said Ting Lu and T. J. Bond, economists at Merrill Lynch, in a research note, adding that they expected more interest rate cuts in the months ahead.
 And comments by Wen Jiabao, the Chinese prime minister, that the government's economic stimulus package would seek to help the real estate sector could foreshadow further policy steps to encourage private sector investment in housing, Ms. Wang said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CASINOS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); INFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); EXPORT PRICES (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (50%)

COMPANY: LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (92%)

TICKER: LVS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: SHELDON G ADELSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (90%) CHINA (98%); MACAO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



508 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Aches, a Sneeze, a Google Search

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
There is a new common symptom of the flu, in addition to the usual aches, coughs, fevers and sore throats. Turns out a lot of ailing Americans enter phrases like ''flu symptoms'' into Google and other search engines before they call their doctors.
 That simple act, multiplied across millions of keyboards in homes around the country, has given rise to a new early warning system for fast-spreading flu outbreaks, called Google Flu Trends.
 Tests of the new Web tool from Google.org, the company's philanthropic unit, suggest that it may be able to detect regional outbreaks of the flu a week to 10 days before they are reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 In early February, for example, the C.D.C. reported that the flu cases had recently spiked in the mid-Atlantic states. But Google says its search data show a spike in queries about flu symptoms two weeks before that report was released. Its new service at google.org/flutrends analyzes those searches as they come in, creating graphs and maps of the country that, ideally, will show where the flu is spreading. 
 The C.D.C. reports are slower because they rely on data collected and compiled from thousands of health care providers, labs and other sources. Some public health experts say the Google data could help accelerate the response of doctors, hospitals and public health officials to a nasty flu season, reducing the spread of the disease and, potentially, saving lives. 
 ''The earlier the warning, the earlier prevention and control measures can be put in place, and this could prevent cases of influenza,'' said Dr. Lyn Finelli, lead for surveillance at the influenza division of the C.D.C. From 5 to 20 percent of the nation's population contracts the flu each year, she said, leading to roughly 36,000 deaths on average.
 The service covers only the United States, but Google is hoping to eventually use the same technique to help track influenza and other diseases worldwide.
 ''From a technological perspective, it is the beginning,'' said Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive.
 The premise behind Google Flu Trends -- what appears to be a fruitful marriage of mob behavior and medicine -- has been validated by an unrelated study indicating that the data collected by Yahoo, Google's main rival in Internet search, can also help with early detection of the flu. 
 ''In theory, we could use this stream of information to learn about other disease trends as well,'' said Dr. Philip M. Polgreen, assistant professor of medicine and epidemiology at the University of Iowa and an author of the study based on Yahoo's data.
 Still, some public health officials note that many health departments already use other approaches, like gathering data from visits to emergency rooms, to keeping daily tabs on disease trends in their communities. 
 ''We don't have any evidence that this is more timely than our emergency room data,'' said Dr. Farzad Mostashari, assistant commissioner of the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene in New York City. 
 If Google provided health officials with details of the system's workings so that it could be validated scientifically, the data could serve as an additional, free way to detect influenza, said Dr. Mostashari, who is also chairman of the International Society for Disease Surveillance. 
 A paper on the methodology of Google Flu Trends is expected to be published in the journal Nature.
 Researchers have long said that the material published on the Web amounts to a form of ''collective intelligence'' that can be used to spot trends and make predictions. 
 But the data collected by search engines is particularly powerful, because the keywords and phrases that people type into them represent their most immediate intentions. People may search for ''Kauai hotel'' when they are planning a vacation and for ''foreclosure'' when they have trouble with their mortgage. Those queries express the world's collective desires and needs, its wants and likes.
 Internal research at Yahoo suggests that increases in searches for certain terms can help forecast what technology products will be hits, for instance. Yahoo has begun using search traffic to help it decide what material to feature on its site. 
 Two years ago, Google began opening its search data trove through Google Trends, a tool that allows anyone to track the relative popularity of search terms. Google also offers more sophisticated search traffic tools that marketers can use to fine-tune ad campaigns. And internally, the company has tested the use of search data to reach conclusions about economic, marketing and entertainment trends. 
 ''Most forecasting is basically trend extrapolation,'' said Hal Varian, Google's chief economist. ''This works remarkably well, but tends to miss turning points, times when the data changes direction. Our hope is that Google data might help with this problem.''
 Prabhakar Raghavan, who is in charge of Yahoo Labs and the company's search strategy, also said search data could be valuable for forecasters and scientists, but privacy concerns had generally stopped it from sharing it with outside academics. 
 Google Flu Trends avoids privacy pitfalls by relying only on aggregated data that cannot be traced to individual searchers. To develop the service, Google's engineers devised a basket of keywords and phrases related to the flu, including thermometer, flu symptoms, muscle aches, chest congestion and many others. 
 Google then dug into its database, extracted five years of data on those queries and mapped it onto the C.D.C.'s reports of influenzalike illness. Google found a strong correlation between its data and the reports from the agency, which advised it on the development of the new service. 
 ''We know it matches very, very well in the way flu developed in the last year,'' said Dr. Larry Brilliant, executive director of Google.org. Dr. Finelli of the C.D.C. and Dr. Brilliant both cautioned that the data needed to be monitored to ensure that the correlation with flu activity remained valid. 
 Google also says it believes the tool may help people take precautions if a disease is in their area.
 Others have tried to use information collected from Internet users for public health purposes. A Web site called whoissick.org, for instance, invites people to report what ails them and superimposes the results on a map. But the site has received relatively little traffic. 
 HealthMap, a project affiliated with the Children's Hospital Boston, scours the Web for articles, blog posts and newsletters to create a map that tracks emerging infectious diseases around the world. It is backed by Google.org, which counts the detection and prevention of diseases as one of its main philanthropic objectives. 
 But Google Flu Trends appears to be the first public project that uses the powerful database of a search engine to track a disease. 
 ''This seems like a really clever way of using data that is created unintentionally by the users of Google to see patterns in the world that would otherwise be invisible,'' said Thomas W. Malone, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T. ''I think we are just scratching the surface of what's possible with collective intelligence.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Using Google to Monitor the Flu: Google Flu Trends can estimate the spread of the disease by measuring the frequency of certain search terms. Its findings closely track actual C.D.C. data and can, at times, anticipate the government reports. (Sources: Google
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (96%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); TRENDS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); HEALTH CARE (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); CORPORATE GIVING (55%); HERD BEHAVIOR (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



509 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Affordable Housing Deals Are Stalling

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
At a time when projects all over New York are being canceled or postponed, a development team that plans to transform a weedy site in East Harlem into a 12-story rental apartment building had cause to celebrate last week. Despite the economic downturn, the partners were able to complete the financing for the $65 million building and schedule a groundbreaking for next Tuesday.
 The building, which is to rise on a site at 124th Street and Second Avenue that is a patchwork of 10 city-owned and private lots, will be known as the Tapestry. Half of its 184 apartments will rent at the market rate, while 30 percent will be set aside for people whose household income is less than 130 percent of the New York area median income, which is currently $74,600, and 20 percent for people who earn only 50 percent of the median income. 
 Getting a project like this under way is usually a time-consuming exercise. The developers -- Jonathan F. P. Rose and Nicholas and Gerard Lettire -- had to stitch together a daunting array of tax credits, tax-exempt bonds, loans and grants. 
 But even these days, money is available for well-structured projects, said Mr. Rose, who has been developing affordable housing around the country for 19 years. ''The developer has to have a good track record, and financial strength, and the project has to be well thought-out,'' he said in an interview in his Fifth Avenue office.
 He said he hoped to close the financing next month for two more income-restricted projects -- one in Albuquerque and another in Harlem, on 140th Street and Riverside Drive, to be developed in partnership with the Fortune Society, a nonprofit organization that provides services to ex-convicts. 
 Affordable housing is said to do better than other real estate sectors in a bad economy because government subsidies are available, land and construction costs fall and demand for the apartments rises.
 But because of the toll that the credit squeeze has taken on financial institutions, busy developers like Mr. Rose may be more the exception than the rule. Though the need for affordable housing is likely to grow as unemployment worsens, specialists in mixed-income rental housing say that many developers -- especially outside of New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Chicago -- are finding it difficult or even impossible to put their deals together. 
 ''We think there is an enormous slowdown in the production of affordable housing that's happening right now,'' said Richard Paul Richman, the chairman of the Richman Group, a company based in Greenwich, Conn., that develops affordable housing nationwide. ''We believe that the shortage of equity is so severe that even qualified developers won't get funded.'' 
 The Richman Group is also a leading syndicator of low-income housing tax credits, the principal engine of affordable-housing development since 1986. Tax credits usually account for half to three-quarters of the development capital in an affordable housing deal, said Charles R. Werhane, the chief operating officer of Enterprise Community Investment, a division of Enterprise Community Partners, a national nonprofit organization based in Columbia, Md., that serves as an intermediary between developers and lenders.
 Allocated to the states by the United States government, the credits against federal taxable income are awarded to projects that meet the housing program's strict requirements. The developer then finds a syndicator to sell the credits so that the proceeds can be invested in the projects. In recent years, the buyers have usually been financial institutions, which use them to offset profits over a 10-year period while also fulfilling their obligations under the federal Community Reinvestment Act to invest in poorer neighborhoods.
 Until this year, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac acquired about 35 percent of the tax credits. But as the government-sponsored agencies' losses mounted, they stopped buying credits, as did another key player, Citigroup. 
 As demand has slackened, the price of the credits has dropped. Tax credits that used to go for more than 90 cents on the dollar often command no more than 78 cents, with the result that the project gets less money, and the developer has to find other funds to close the equity gap. (To make up some of the deficit, the federal government recently expanded the number of tax credits by 10 percent and offered other incentives to investors.) 
 It is not known just how much the $8 billion tax credit industry business has shrunk, because developers who are awarded credits have two years to try to make a project work. ''Returning credits is the last, final step,'' said Garth Rieman, the director of housing advocacy for the National Council of State Housing Agencies. ''It's an admission of failure, an admission that they can't get the deal done.'' 
 Michael Novogradac, the managing partner of Novoco, a national accounting firm based in San Francisco that has an extensive affordable housing practice, estimated that no more than $6 billion in tax credits would be sold this year. ''We're definitely seeing developers turn projects back to the state, and others with good-sized gaps trying to close them,'' he said. Unused credits are pooled and reallocated to states with more demand, a practice that could eventually benefit New York.
 Enterprise, also a major syndicator that sells tax credits to investors, expects to close 95 projects this year, compared with 115 projects last year, Mr. Werhane said. ''The industry in general is probably down about 30 percent,'' he said. Nationwide, about 125,000 units of income-restricted rental housing are added each year.
 In New York, where the supply of affordable housing is considered unlikely ever to come close to meeting the need, the prospects for seasoned developers remain relatively good, industry specialists said. The Bloomberg administration is more than halfway toward a goal of developing 165,000 units of affordable housing by fiscal year 2013, but the program will probably require an extra year, said Seth Donlin, a spokesman for the city Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
 L&M Development Partners and the Dunn Development Corporation, two New York firms, recently transformed a former garbage transfer station in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn into Palmer's Dock, where monthly rents range from $398 to $920. Martin Dunn, the president of Dunn Development, said the city had received 13,000 applications for 113 apartments. The residents were chosen by lottery.
 Investors in tax credits have become increasingly picky because credits are rescinded in the event of a foreclosure and cost overruns cannot be passed on to tenants. ''The good deals are getting done, but others on the margins are not getting done,'' said Robert D. Taylor, the president of the Wells Fargo Community Development Corporation, which does business in the West. ''You want to pick a developer who can be on time and on budget.'' 
 Investors also wonder if market rents in many areas outside New York will decline to the point where there will be little need for subsidized apartments. But that would mean no new supply would be available when the market recovered, said Todd J. Crow, an executive vice president of PNC Multifamily Capital, the tax credit investor in the Tapestry.
 ''We are being confronted with market conditions that are unprecedented for us in the life of this program,'' Mr. Crow said, referring to the tax credit program. ''We have just never seen market forces take such a toll on our business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top, Palmer's Dock, an affordable housing apartment complex in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn
Jonathan F. P. Rose, a developer in the Tapestry project proposed in East Harlem
a rendering of the Tapestry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



510 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Everglades Deal Shrinks to Sale of Land, Not Assets

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
United States Sugar Corporation has agreed to sell 181,000 acres of farmland to the State of Florida for $1.34 billion in a slimmed-down deal intended to rescue the Everglades while letting the company stay in business. 
 The price is $410 million less than Gov. Charlie Crist offered for the entire company in June. It is also a simpler transaction involving only real estate -- U.S. Sugar would retain its mill, citrus processing facilities and other assets -- leaving open the possibility of preserving the company's 1,700 jobs. 
 ''This is a unique opportunity,'' said Robert Coker, a senior vice president with U.S. Sugar. ''We're going to go back and re-evaluate our business.''
 Over the long term, Mr. Coker said, the company would consider producing biofuels and finding other uses for assets like its sugar mill and railways. 
 In the short term, he said, little would change. Business would continue in Clewiston, the central Florida town where the company has been based since the 1930s. U.S. Sugar, the nation's largest sugar producer, would lease its former land from the state for the next seven crop cycles, paying a total of about $60 million. 
 The agreement would grant the South Florida Water Management District, the state's overseer of the purchase, the right to take 10,000 acres in that time for hydrology projects and an additional 30,000 in the seventh year. But most of the company's land could continue to be farmed until the state needs it to reconnect Lake Okeechobee to Everglades National Park and Florida Bay. 
 Mr. Coker said he expected to see sugar on the land for at least a decade. ''If they're not building something on it, they will want someone to caretake it and they will probably want rent,'' Mr. Coker said. ''I hope we'll be the ones doing that.'' 
 A continued U.S. Sugar presence would please residents of Clewiston, who rely on the company for work in a county with an unemployment rate of 14 percent. Mayor Mali Chamness said she was ''still concerned about the future'' and wanted assurances from state officials that U.S. Sugar would not be put out of business after seven years. 
 Not surprisingly, Everglades advocates called for something else: an end to Big Sugar. David Guest, a lawyer with Earthjustice, said sugar production damaged the Everglades by releasing 100 pounds of phosphorous per year per acre. Taking the land out of production as soon as the deal allows ''relieves an immediate stress,'' Mr. Guest said. 
 He added that there would be other conflicts to come as well, over how much engineering was required to restore the Everglades, which projects to finance and how to pay for them. 
 Carol Wehle, executive director of the South Florida Water Management District, said the first challenge would be raising the $1.34 billion, primarily with bonds, amid a financial crisis. And with a ''yes'' vote from the district's governing board at its December meeting, the final hurdle to state approval, the planning process will begin. 
 ''We'll take a two-year period to figure out what's best for the Everglades,'' Ms. Wehle said. 
 If history is a guide, it could take longer. Delays are common in environmental restoration for many reasons, as Mr. Crist found on Tuesday. He reportedly sees this deal as an emerald of his record, but after gathering reporters at the Miami home of the Everglades' biggest champion, Marjory Stoneman Douglas, Mr. Crist had to cancel his appearance to announce the deal. His plane had mechanical difficulties; his office said he would host a do-over on Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: U.S. Sugar in Clewiston, Fla., will keep its mill and other assets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVESTITURES (90%); SUGAR MFG (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SUGAR FARMING (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BIOMASS (76%); BIOFUELS (73%); MAYORS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ENGINEERING (67%); WATER QUALITY (63%); NATIONAL PARKS (63%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES SUGAR CORP (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311314 CANE SUGAR MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2061 CANE SUGAR EX. REFINING (93%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



511 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Move at the Wrong Time

 BODY:
Just as the economic crisis is driving many workers into the ranks of the unemployed and uninsured, the Bush administration has callously decided to reduce Medicaid payments to hospitals for their outpatient services. With tax revenues collapsing, many states will be unable to pay their share of Medicaid costs, let alone make up for the loss of federal support. 
 The impact on the poor and the hospitals that serve them could be severe. 
 The new rule, which will take effect on Dec. 8, narrows the scope of services that can be provided to poor people under Medicaid's outpatient hospital benefit. It is a complicated rule whose main thrust is to exclude from the definition of hospital outpatient services those that could be provided and covered outside a hospital in, say, a doctor's or dentist's office or free-standing clinic, where the overhead costs are much lower. 
 The hospitals can continue to provide such services. But they will now be reimbursed at the much lower rates for other Medicaid providers. 
 The Bush administration insists that the purpose of the regulation is not to reduce federal payments for Medicaid but rather to clarify what services are solely provided in outpatient hospital settings and what services can be provided more economically elsewhere. It predicts that the economic effects will not be significant. 
 Prominent hospital leaders and state Medicaid officials have a much darker view of the consequences, as was reported by Robert Pear in The Times on Saturday. As they read the new rule, it may force safety-net hospitals with huge Medicaid burdens to cut outpatient dental and vision care and various services for children, among other reductions. That could be a serious blow in many poor neighborhoods where there are few if any private practitioners willing to take Medicaid patients.
 Whatever its precise impact may be, this new rule heads in the wrong direction. Financially stressed states are urging the White House to increase the federal contribution to Medicaid for at least the next two years, to help them ride out a potentially long recession. The incoming president and Congress should heed their call for help -- and overturn this potentially damaging new rule. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); HOSPITALS (91%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DENTISTRY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



512 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM BANGKOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: This Time, Southeast Asia Is Not at Center Of the Crisis

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
The remnants of the last financial crisis are still arrayed across this sprawling city, half-finished buildings covered with mold and rust stains, reminders of a real estate bubble a decade ago that burst with a loud bang.
 The crisis of 1997 was breathtaking for its suddenness and ferocity. Banks collapsed, companies went under and erstwhile millionaires, desperate for cash, sold their belongings at what became known as the market of the formerly rich.
 Now as another global financial crisis unfolds, the signs of distress in Southeast Asia are much more subtle. 
 Traffic has thinned by 6 percent on Bangkok's expressways. Indonesian farmers who harvest the red fruit from oil palm trees are having trouble finding buyers. House prices in Vietnam, a relative newcomer to capitalism, have come down 30 percent in recent months, following years of steep rises.
 Stock markets in Southeast Asia have slid downward almost in lockstep with those in New York, London and Tokyo. But outside of trading rooms, there is none of the palpable panic of a decade ago when the region was ground zero in what the Thais called the ''tom yam crisis,'' after the famous spicy soup that can burn one's tongue.
 ''Last time it was self-inflicted; the crisis originated from within Asia,'' said Mark Tan, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong. This time the contagion is radiating out from the United States and Europe, the region's biggest customers.
 ''While the initial reduction in growth won't be as bad as in the Asian crisis,'' Mr. Tan said, ''it will also mean the rebound is slower and takes longer, as export demand will be much weaker.''
 Lacking the immediacy of the last crisis, the twists and turns of the financial turmoil in the West have been received here like news of a plague several valleys away. The villagers are wondering when it will hit their homes and how bad it will be.
 The reckoning is likely to come next year. As orders for exports drop off, factories will slow down and the main motor of Southeast Asian economies will sputter, say economists and government planners.
 Southeast Asian countries exported themselves out of the last crisis with cheap products made even cheaper by their devalued currencies. The United States, which was still enjoying its technology boom in 1999, snapped up the electronics, clothing and toys that the region produces.
 This time debt-laden consumers in the United States do not appear to have the means to keep factories here humming. On the contrary, a newfound frugality among Americans is likely to drag Southeast Asia down. Thailand and Vietnam depend heavily on exports to power economic growth. For Malaysia and Singapore, overseas markets are even more crucial to domestic prosperity.
 ''We have had export-led growth for more than 30 years,'' said Pansak Vinyaratn, a former chief economic adviser to the Thai government. ''We have not geared ourselves toward investment in domestic-led growth.''
 Workers may be laid off or migrant workers sent home, but economists are predicting a slowdown, not a recession. In 1997 the suddenness of the crisis put a bankrupted real estate developer out on the street selling sandwiches. Thailand's economy shrank by a stunning 10 percent in 1998.
 This crisis, when measured by economic growth, is predicted to be far less severe. 
 Governments, which now have larger cash reserves and relatively small deficits compared with the roaring, and profligate, 1990s, have already announced plans to increase spending to keep the economies moving.
 Indonesia, which went cup in hand to the International Monetary Fund last time, has much more room to maneuver. The country's public debt has come down significantly, from more than 100 percent of the size of its economy eight years ago to about 36 percent now.
 And in its earliest stages the credit crisis has brought a measure of relief to Southeast Asia.
 The plunge in oil prices is good news for Indonesia, where subsidies make up a large part of the government budget. 
 The poor may also benefit. Along with fuel, the price of rice has fallen sharply.
 ''Inflation this year is 6 percent; next year it will be half that,'' said Supavud Saicheua, managing director of Phatra Securities in Bangkok. ''The poor and working class in factories will definitely benefit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Traders watched prices on their computers recently, as a board recorded activity, at the stock exchange in Bangkok.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ARCHAMBAULT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A worker loading oil palm fruit into a truck in Indonesia's Sulawesi Province. Farmers there are having trouble finding buyers for their crops.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YUSUF AHMAD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); DEVALUATION (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); HOME PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (96%); ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (93%); INDONESIA (93%); VIET NAM (92%); HONG KONG (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



513 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Output Cut Fails to Halt Oil's Slide

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices fell to their lowest level in 20 months on Tuesday, despite efforts by the OPEC cartel to stem the slide, as weak economic growth continued to reduce consumption around the world. 
 Lower energy prices are providing some welcome relief for struggling consumers, but a 59 percent decline in oil prices since their summer peak also shows how radically the prospects of the global economy have darkened in recent months. 
 At an emergency meeting last month, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to reduce their output, as of Nov. 1, to slow the price slide. 
 While there is no official tally of OPEC production, several members -- including Algeria, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait -- have signaled in recent days that they had begun paring their production. 
 Various reports also suggested that Saudi Arabia, the cartel's kingpin, had warned some Asian customers that it would pare exports by 5 percent next month.
 So far, OPEC producers have announced cuts totaling about 1.1 million barrels a day, less than the 1.5 million barrels a day that the cartel agreed to last month. According to estimates by PFC Energy, a consulting firm, however, producers have actually trimmed their production by only about 800,000 barrels a day. 
 Despite these efforts, slower consumption has continued to weigh on oil markets, pushing prices down on Tuesday to their lowest level since March 2007. 
 Crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $59.33 a barrel, down 5 percent. Prices have plummeted since hitting a peak of $145.29 a barrel in July.
 Producers face the difficult task of seeking to balance oil supplies with slowing demand during one of the worst economic slowdowns in recent memory. 
 The International Monetary Fund recently warned that the world faced the prospect of a simultaneous recession in the United States, Europe and Japan for the first time in more than 60 years. The Chinese economy, long the main engine of growth in oil demand, is also slowing. 
 As a result, a growing number of oil specialists now expect global demand to drop this year, which would be the first annual decline since 1983. 
 ''In a falling demand environment, it is extremely difficult to stem a price drop,'' said Francisco Blanch, a commodity strategist at Merrill Lynch. ''Global economic growth is still trending down and it will be a few quarters before we see a trough for oil prices. Until then, OPEC will try to figure out what the right level of production is going to be. That's a hard thing to do.''
 After gasoline prices soared above $4 a gallon earlier this year, oil demand in the United States dropped over the summer. Consumption fell by 1.8 million barrels a day, or 8 percent, to 19.3 million barrels a day in August, compared with the same period a year ago, according to the latest monthly estimates from the Energy Department. 
 As a result, refineries ran at their slowest pace in 21 years in August, typically one of the busiest months of the year. At the same time, inventories of crude oil kept building at a steady clip, suggesting there was more oil in the market than needed.
 Since July 4, gasoline prices have dropped for 17 weeks, to a nationwide average of about $2.22 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile club. That is about 90 cents less than at the same time last year.
 OPEC, whose members account for 40 percent of the world's oil exports, is scheduled to meet in Algeria next month. An Iranian oil official said on Tuesday that the producers might be forced to meet before that if prices continued to slide. 
 OPEC's cohesion will probably be tested in coming months if prices keep falling. Some countries, like Saudi Arabia, can afford to see lower prices for a while, while the price drop is already hurting producers like Iran and Venezuela.
 Michael Wittner, the global head of oil research at the French bank Societe Generale, in London, said it was probable that OPEC would reduce production by another million barrels a day next month.
 ''OPEC appears to be taking this very seriously, and they are telling their customers they would be getting less crude,'' Mr. Wittner said. ''But prices keep falling because despite all that, the markets have been down-shifting to a lower economic growth and slower oil demand.''
 David Kirsch, an oil analyst at PFC Energy, said OPEC producers knew they could not alter the market's short-term view. But by starting to trim their output, they were trying to set the stage for a rebound in prices next year.
 ''What OPEC is looking for is managing the fundamentals so they can create the conditions for a price recovery at some point, when the global economy starts to recover,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A gas station worker in Madison Heights, in central Virginia, installed a ''1'' on a sign Tuesday, in a spot it has not occupied recently.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM RAFF/THE NEWS & ADVANCE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B6) CHART: Price of oil.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for price of oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); FUTURES (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



514 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Profit Declines 6% at TJX; Liz Claiborne Posts a Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: FRAMINGHAM, Mass. 

 BODY:
 (AP)The TJX Companies, the discount retailer that operates the T. J. Maxx and Marshalls stores, reported a 6 percent decline in third-quarter profit on Tuesday as unfavorable exchange rates and a tough economy crimped results. 
 The company also forecast a lower-than-expected fourth-quarter profit and cut its fiscal 2009 outlook.
 Profit declined to $235.8 million, from $249.5 million a year earlier. Earnings from continuing operations rose to $254.1 million, or 58 cents a share, from $251.3 million, or 54 cents a share.
 During the quarter, TJX recorded a loss of $18 million, or 4 cents a share, from the sale of its Bob's Stores chain in August.
 Sales in the period, which ended Oct. 25, rose to $4.76 billion, from $4.66 billion.
 ''Given the challenging times, we believe our results speak to our ability to hold our own in tough business cycles,'' the chief executive, Carol M. Meyrowitz, said in a statement. ''We are extremely focused on buying right and running with leaner-than-usual inventory levels, which has led to faster inventory turns and strong merchandise margins.''
 The company, however, lowered its fiscal 2009 full-year earnings outlook. Stock in TJX, which is based in Framingham, Mass., fell 25 cents, to $23.45 a share.
 Another clothing retailer, Liz Claiborne, posted a quarterly loss late Monday as a result of slumping sales and reorganization charges.
 The company said it lost $68.7 million, or 73 cents a share, compared with a profit of $33.1 million, or 33 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding the revamping charges and other one-time items in both periods, the company's profit fell to 39 cents a share from 60 cents. Sales in the period, which ended Oct. 4, fell 16 percent, to $1.01 billion from $1.20 billion.
 Stock in Claiborne, which is based in New York, fell 76 cents or 12 percent, to $5.70 a share, on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers at T. J. Maxx, a unit of the TJX Companies. TJX said exchange rates and the economic slump hurt its bottom line.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: FIFTH & PACIFIC COS INC (95%); TJX COS INC (94%); BOB'S STORES INC (56%)

TICKER: FNP (NYSE) (95%); TJX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (95%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (56%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (56%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (56%)

PERSON: CAROL MEYROWITZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



515 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Gay, Anti-Family

BYLINE: By DAN SAVAGE. 
Dan Savage is the editorial director of The Stranger, a Seattle newsweekly, and the author of ''The Commitment: Love, Sex, Marriage and My Family.''

 BODY:
COUNTLESS Americans, gay and otherwise, are still mourning -- and social conservatives are still celebrating -- the approval last Tuesday of anti-gay-marriage amendments in Florida, Arizona and, most heartbreaking, California, where Proposition 8 stripped same-sex couples of their right to wed. Eighteen thousand same-sex couples were legally married in California this past summer and fall; their marriages are now in limbo. 
 But while Californians march and gay activists contemplate a national boycott of Utah -- the Mormon Church largely bankrolled Proposition 8 -- an even more ominous new law in Arkansas has drawn little notice. 
 That state's Proposed Initiative Act No. 1, approved by nearly 57 percent of voters last week, bans people who are ''cohabitating outside a valid marriage'' from serving as foster parents or adopting children. While the measure bans both gay and straight members of cohabitating couples as foster or adoptive parents, the Arkansas Family Council wrote it expressly to thwart ''the gay agenda.'' Right now, there are 3,700 other children across Arkansas in state custody; 1,000 of them are available for adoption. The overwhelming majority of these children have been abused, neglected or abandoned by their heterosexual parents.
 Even before the law passed, the state estimated that it had only about a quarter of the foster parents it needed. Beginning on Jan. 1, a grandmother in Arkansas cohabitating with her opposite-sex partner because marrying might reduce their pension benefits is barred from taking in her own grandchild; a gay man living with his male partner cannot adopt his deceased sister's children.
 Social conservatives are threatening to roll out Arkansas-style adoption bans in other states. And the timing couldn't be worse: in tough economic times, the numbers of abused and neglected children in need of foster care rises. But good times or bad, no movement that would turn away qualified parents and condemn children to a broken foster care system should be considered ''pro-family.''
 Most ominous, once ''pro-family'' groups start arguing that gay couples are unfit to raise children we might adopt, how long before they argue that we're unfit to raise those we've already adopted? If lesbian couples are unfit to care for foster children, are they fit to care for their own biological children?
 The loss in California last week was heartbreaking. But what may be coming next is terrifying. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); MARRIAGE (91%); ADOPTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOSTER CARE (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); COHABITATION (89%); CHILD ABUSE (88%); CHILDREN (88%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MEN (77%); PARENTING (75%); PARENTS (74%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); BOYCOTTS (70%); RELIGION (70%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



516 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Malls Take On a Downturn

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: In New Jersey 

 BODY:
home to more malls per square mile than any other state -- retail centers appear to be uniformly braced for a hard holiday season to come. But those in the midst of opening or upgrading are adopting a wide variety of survival postures.
 Xanadu, a $2 billion shopping and entertainment center rising in the Meadowlands, simply went to duck-and-cover mode; its planned opening this month was pushed back to next summer. 
 But other malls are proceeding to open, or reintroduce themselves, as a recession unfolds. Their owners and operators are straining to find the best strategy to lure consumers who are themselves increasingly hard pressed -- or at least to find ways to justify the plans they settled on before the economic outlook turned dark.
 ''Our timing could be better,'' acknowledged David Loventhal of Garden Commercial Properties, ''but it is not terrible.'' His Short Hills-based company is opening three malls in the state over the next few months. 
 ''We have not yet seen any regional malls get into dangerous waters,'' he said, ''because New Jersey has yet to be victimized by any large-scale department store anchors going out of business.'' 
 It is true, he said, that ''the mom-and-pop operations, any small franchise tenants, are simply deer in headlights right now. Maybe they're holding their own at an existing location, but they're not going to be expanding at this time.''
 But Garden Commercial, which owns and manages more than 25 million square feet of retail space, primarily in New Jersey and elsewhere in the Northeast, so far has been lucky to have only one of its mainstay midsize tenants -- Linens 'n Things -- enter into bankruptcy protection.
 The company's new malls in Raritan, Linden and Edison will be anchored with a Wal-Mart or a Lowe's Home Improvement Center -- or both -- to draw shoppers in large numbers. ''In these difficult times, people are looking for value,'' Mr. Loventhal said, and those two chains are still doing strong business.
 The coming holiday season is expected to generate the lowest sales per square foot of store space since the recession of the 1980s, according to Mr. Loventhal. He, like other retail developers, referred to the overall retail market as ''fragile.'' But he said that it was possible to open new shopping centers at this time and have them succeed.
 One trend that is helping, Mr. Loventhal said, involves providing malls with attached or adjacent commercial and office space. Tenant turnover is usually less rapid in offices than in retail centers, he said, and nearby stores and restaurants are considered a desirable amenity for office workers, thus raising lease values for both classes of property. 
 At Raritan Town Square, a 500,000-square-foot complex being built in Hunterdon County, the space is divided among stores, restaurants and office space. The first stores and restaurants at the center opened last month, including a Lowe's and a LongHorn Steakhouse. Construction is under way on a 145,000-square-foot Wal-Mart.
 Mixed uses are also part of the survival strategy at Princeton Forrestal Village in Plainsboro, although in this case the owners (Gale Real Estate) and managers (Levin Management) are determinedly sticking to their plan of creating an upscale niche.
 Princeton Forrestal began in 1986 as an upscale mixed-use shopping center -- pioneering for its time -- with nightclubs and ''lifestyle'' services like a tailor, shoe-repair shop and express mail shipping service, in addition to designer clothing stores, an office building and a hotel. The retail part of the complex, which is off Route 1, was unsuccessful from the outset, though, and quickly evolved into an outlet center.
 By the late 1990s, that type of retailing was not attracting crowds, either. In fact, shop space was mostly empty in 2003 when Gale bought Princeton Forrestal with the intention of refurbishing the entire property and taking its retail offerings back to upscale.
 Over the last four years, Gale invested $8 million in repairs, upgrades and tenant recruitment efforts. It is now poised to take full advantage of this holiday season, whatever it brings, the developers said.
 The level of affluence in the Princeton area makes the upscaling effort a sensible long-term plan, Matthew Harding, the president of Levin, said. He also pointed to a built-in market among office workers on site at the mall, and others who work in medical offices and corporate buildings along Route 1.
 The Westin Hotel and Conference Center, adjacent to the shops, draws 600,000 visitors a year; about 1,400 a week are overnight guests. The restaurant space at the Westin was recently remodeled to create conference space, as two new upscale chain restaurants were added to the mall. Another, Tre Piani, which bills itself as part of the ecologically sensitive ''slow food'' movement, opened shortly after the sale to Gale. 
 Shoppers and hotel guests will continue to seek ''lifestyle'' services at Princeton Forrestal, said Fred Knapp, an asset manager with Gale, which is a division of Mack-Cali Realty. 
 A Can Do fitness center and an adjacent Koi spa -- both are high-end Northeastern franchises -- as well as the restaurants are drawing steady traffic to Princeton Forrestal, according to Mr. Knapp and Mr. Harding.
 A Salt Creek Grille restaurant, built at the Route 1 edge of the mall, also gives it a prominent new ''face'' on the heavily traveled roadway, Mr. Harding said. Ruth's Chris Steak House, only the third in New Jersey, draws customers from a wide area, he said.
 Going into the holidays, the mall's buffed-up retail space is 75 percent leased -- which is above the national average of 72 percent for centers that have opened within the last year, according to retail specialists. The office building and space above the shops of the mall's ''Main Street'' are 95 percent occupied.
 A couple of retailers from Princeton Borough's small, elite downtown have opened new, larger stores at Princeton Forrestal, lured by ''aggressively priced rents,'' Mr. Harding said. They are the Silver Shop, an antiques dealer, which opened a second store and is adding an adjacent art gallery, and Luxe Homes, a furnishings store, which relocated from a smaller downtown location.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about shopping malls in New Jersey that have recently been upgraded misstated the given name of an executive at Garden Commercial Properties. He is Scott Loventhal, not David.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Princeton Forrestal Village in Plainsboro, N.J., which has a built-in market of office workers, offers a Can Do fitness center.
 The new owners of the mall have spent $8 million on repairs, upgrades and recruiting of upscale shops and services.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); SALES PER SQUARE FOOT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); HOME CENTERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (64%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (64%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (64%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



517 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: SWEDEN: VOLVO TO LAY OFF NEARLY 1,000

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Swedish truck and bus maker Volvo said it would lay off nearly 1,000 workers at its powertrain unit in Sweden and the United States as the global financial crisis continued to weigh on demand for heavy vehicles. A Volvo spokesman, Marten Wikfors, said the layoffs would affect 900 workers in Sweden and 65 in Hagerstown, Md. He said a number of consultants in Sweden could also lose their jobs. The unit makes engines, gear boxes and rear axles for trucks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (84%)

COMPANY: AB VOLVO (92%)

TICKER: VOLV.B (STO) (92%); VOLV.A (STO) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (67%) MARYLAND, USA (92%) SWEDEN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



518 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: With Banks Feeling the Heat, One in South Carolina Goes to the Kitchen

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IN these tough economic times, big banks around the country like IndyMac, Wachovia and Washington Mutual are crumbling. But in a campaign for a local bank in South Carolina, the only crumbling is being done by the biscuits.
 The biscuits? Yes, baked goods Southern-style are the centerpiece of the campaign, for Countybank in Greenwood, S.C., which seeks to stimulate interest in the bank's services for businesses. The campaign includes ads in print, online and outdoors, as well as direct mail.
 The campaign is being produced by the Zlotnick Group in New York, which is handling the creative elements, and Media Man, a media planning and buying agency in Schenectady, N.Y., working with the marketing director at Countybank. The budget for the campaign, scheduled to run through December, is estimated at a thrifty $20,000.
 (If more banks were that fiscally responsible, there might not have been a need for the bailout.) 
 The campaign is indicative of efforts by marketers of financial services to keep going during what is being described as the worst crisis for Wall Street and the credit markets since the Great Depression.
 Many local banks are joining Countybank in making sure they are in front of consumers during these tumultuous times.
 For instance, Beneficial Bank, part of Beneficial Mutual Bancorp in Philadelphia, introduced an upbeat campaign after Election Day that carries the theme ''Starting now.'' The ads take a positive tack to ''reaffirm that even in an environment like this, good things can come out of good financial planning,'' said Bruce Lev, partner and executive creative director at the Beneficial agency, LevLane in Philadelphia.
 And Superior Bank in Birmingham, Ala., is running a campaign by White Sky Agency in Birmingham that tweaks a competitor, First American Bank, after the First American parent, Alabama National BanCorp, was acquired by a division of the Royal Bank of Canada. A television commercial for Superior shows a bank where the tellers are a Mountie, a hockey player and a moose.
 Much larger banks are also running campaigns trying to drum up business for products like checking accounts, credit cards and certificates of deposit. Among them are Chase, part of JPMorgan Chase, and Citibank, a unit of Citigroup.
 The Countybank campaign began in late September with teaser billboards that asked simply, ''How do you like yours?'' The identity of the sponsor was missing, a common tactic in the first phases of such campaigns.
 Those signs were followed by signs sending curious South Carolinians to a microsite, or special Web site (howdoyoulikeyours.com). Again, no sponsor was identified.
 The next step, known as the reveal, followed soon after. The billboards and the Web site were changed to explain the purpose of the campaign: to introduce the suite of services that Countybank says is customized for each business customer.
 The Countybank logo was added to the ads, along with the theme of the campaign, ''Business banking the way you like it.''
 The business services being offered by Countybank include cash management, employee benefits, insurance, payment processing, succession planning and wealth management. They are bundled together under the name BizKit.
 BizKit. Biscuit. Get it? (Those among you who dislike puns may now dismiss the play on words as half-baked.)
 ''I'm not usually a big fan of puns, but we toyed with the idea over the summer and decided, why not?'' said Bill Jenkins, the marketing director at Countybank, part of the TCB Corporation. ''Everyone thought, 'It's a little corny, but let's give it a try.' ''
 ''The ham biscuit is a habitual breakfast food here,'' he added. ''You pick up a dozen biscuits here in the same way that if you're in New York, you pick up a dozen bagels.''
 The lighthearted approach is meant to ''do something different, stand out from the crowd,'' Mr. Jenkins said.
 ''Bank ads all look similar,'' he added. ''They're all great, if you suffer from insomnia.''
 The idea behind the campaign is to get ''a chance to meet the business owners and find out their needs,'' Mr. Jenkins said, in Greenwood as well as a nearby, bigger market, Greenville.
 ''We have a lot more to talk to a business owner about than a savings account or 'Do you need a loan today?' '' he added, because in addition to banking, Countybank is also an insurance company, a trust company and a mortgage broker, and has a controlling interest in a investment advisory firm.
 The pitch for the BizKit describes it as ''fresh, simple business banking'' that is ''customized for the way you do business.''
 ''Spend less time managing your money, more time managing your business,'' the ads declare.
 ''The thing that big banks and the agencies that work for them miss is that one-on-one relationship,'' said Jan Zlotnick, president and creative director at the Zlotnick Group.
 ''All it takes is that one person withdrawing the deposit from the bank, times a million,'' he added, ''and we're in trouble.''
 The campaign was intended to be straightforward with ''no strings attached,'' Mr. Zlotnick said, ''removing the typical bank fine print.''
 ''It's good business to be authentic,'' he added. ''People are looking for the real thing.''
 As for the pun, Mr. Zlotnick acknowledged that ''it was a little corny.''
 ''But corny can be good,'' he added, because ''corny says, 'Hey, we're your neighbor; that's how we talk.' ''
 Also, the similarity between ''biscuit'' and ''BizKit'' is ''a good mnemonic,'' Mr. Zlotnick said, and would help potential customers remember the campaign. Working with Mr. Zlotnick on the campaign are Marija Miljkovic, art director, and Colin Ochel, Web site designer and developer.
 Those business owners and managers who visit howdoyoulikeyours.com are invited to ''enjoy a fresh biscuit breakfast or lunch, for you and your employees, just the way you like it.''
 ''Why?'' the text on the home page continues. ''We thought it'd be a nicer way to say hi and introduce the BizKit, business banking custom-made to your business.''
 ''That's it, no purchase requirement, no strings,'' the text concludes. ''Just mouth-watering biscuits, the way you like.''
 Those who are intrigued enough to click on a photograph of a biscuit labeled ''Pick your fixins'' are then asked to select the types of biscuits that a Countybank representative will bring over for the business owner or manager and his or her employees. The choices are plain biscuits; sausage; sausage, egg and cheese; and bacon, egg and cheese.
 (You were expecting maybe smoked salmon biscuits?)
 The Web site visitor can also choose when he or she would like the Countybank representative to visit: 8 to 9 a.m., 9 to 10 a.m. or noon to 2 p.m.
 ''It's the whole Southern hospitality, community concept,'' said Michael Massey, president at Media Man, who worked with Mr. Jenkins when Mr. Jenkins was at a credit union in upstate New York before his arrival at Countybank.
 ''As a small-business owner, I deal with a lot of banks,'' Mr. Massey said, ''and I've yet to find one who gets me.''
 The purpose of the campaign is to ''do something that isn't pushing product,'' he added. ''It's saying: 'We're not here to sell you anything. We're here to tell you what we're about.' ''
 ''The BizKit is a door-opener,'' Mr. Massey said, aimed at businesses ''whether they're generating $50,000 in revenue or $50 million in revenue.'' 
 In the weeks that the campaign has been running, Mr. Jenkins said, ''we're seeing good success, but I think we'd see more activity'' if it were not for the current financial turmoil.
 ''Some of this news is overshadowing what we're doing,'' he added.
 Still, it is surely better to have a bank bring you a hot biscuit than to have a bank land in hot water.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (89%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BAKED GOODS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BENEFICIAL MUTUAL BANCORP INC (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (66%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); FIRST AMERICAN BANK (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BNCL (NASDAQ) (84%); RY (TSX) (66%); RY (SWX) (66%); RY (NYSE) (66%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (66%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (68%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ALABAMA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



519 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 379 words

 BODY:
FLU TRACKER A new Web tool from Google may be able to detect regional outbreaks of the flu a week before they are reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 LOBBYING FRENZY The shrinking pie of government bailout funds has thrown Washington's legal and lobbying establishment into a mad scramble. [A1.]
 CONSUMER WORRIES With the panic on Wall Street easing, a crisis of consumer confidence has become the No. 1 short-term issue for the economy. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [A1.]
 NEAR BANKRUPTCY Shares of General Motors fell to their lowest point in 65 years after the automaker revealed in a regulatory filing that its ''ability to continue as a going concern'' was in doubt because it might run out of cash before the end of the year. [B1.]
 FEWER LAWSUITS In this still-unfolding financial crisis, the wave of expected corporate litigation has not yet materialized, and law firms are feeling the strain. [B1.]
 OIL PRICES CONTINUE TO FALL Despite efforts by the OPEC cartel to stem the slide in oil prices, they have fallen 59 percent since hitting a peak of $145.29 a barrel in July. [B1.]
 LIMITED HELP Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac said they planned an effort to reduce the loan burdens of homeowners facing foreclosure, but the plan was criticized as being insufficient. [B1.]
 Ninety percent of homeowners are current with their mortgage payments, but banks may still be willing to negotiate with them. Your Money: Ron Lieber. [B1.]
 BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS Countybank in Greenwood, S.C., seeks to stimulate interest in suite of services it says is customized for each business customer. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B5.]
 STOCK SELL-OFF Wall Street investors sent stocks diving as they recognized that few industries were safe from the consumer spending slump. [B6.]
 CREDIT SQUEEZE Affordable housing projects are becoming harder to finance as lenders slow their investing in federal low-income housing tax credits. [B7.]
 'FRAGILE' MARKET Mall developers in New Jersey are adopting new survival strategies to endure what is expected to be a difficult holiday season. [B8.]
 RUBLE FALLS Russia allowed the ruble to fall against the dollar and the euro, a move that raised fears of a government liquidity strain and put investors on edge. [B8.]

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CURRENCIES (86%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (86%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); FORECLOSURE (75%); LITIGATION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); CARTELS (67%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); TAX LAW (67%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); GOOGLE INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



520 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Lab Is Part of City's Goal to Be a Biotech Center

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
On the top floor of a hulking 90-year-old building on the Brooklyn waterfront, plasterers and electricians are preparing what city officials hope will be an economic antidote to the implosion of the financial services industry. 
 In a cavernous warehouse built as a military supply depot during World War I, medical scientists will soon be searching for a vaccine to fight the spread of AIDS. Their laboratory, scheduled for an official opening on Wednesday, will be the first tenant of a section of the Brooklyn Army Terminal that the city has reserved for bioscience companies and organizations.
 The center is the newest frontier in the city's long-running campaign to make New York a capital for the biotechnology industry and in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's efforts to reduce the city's economic dependence on Wall Street. 
 The urgency of that effort has only increased as some of the biggest banks in New York have collapsed or laid off hundreds of employees, raising fears that the city's leading industry may permanently shrink. 
 ''This is a down payment on an industry that we think is going to be a major tax generator for both the city and the state for many years,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 So far, the city has invested more than $35 million to build or renovate office and lab space for bioscience ventures. About one-third of that is going toward the new quarters for the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative in Brooklyn. The state has pledged an additional $48 million to convert 500,000 square feet of the Brooklyn Army Terminal, on 58th Street in Sunset Park, into space for biotechnology firms.
 The Brooklyn project is a prelude to a much more ambitious initiative: the development of the East River Science Park, a $700 million complex under construction on city property adjacent to New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. The science park, with more than one million square feet of office and lab space between 28th and 29th Streets, is scheduled to be completed in 2010. 
 Although the metropolitan area has the highest concentration of medical science talent in the country, it lags far behind the Boston and San Francisco areas as a center for turning their ideas into products and services. 
 ''The academic medical centers that are here spin off about 20 companies per year and we're missing out on them,'' said Lenzie Harcum, vice president for biosciences at the Economic Development Corporation.
 Financiers from Silicon Valley have been picking off many of the most marketable ideas for new ventures and persuading their founders to set up shop in established biotech centers where operating costs are significantly lower than in New York City, like San Diego or Cambridge, Mass., local business leaders say.
 ''The joke here was that venture capitalists came into New York from the West Coast with the three M's -- the money, the management and the moving van -- and relocated them,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, an association of large employers that has invested in some biotech startups. ''They either went to the West Coast, some went to New Jersey, a lot went to Massachusetts, some to New Haven.''
 Ms. Wylde said New York's previous attempts to compete with those places lacked the necessary scale. She cited the Audubon Business and Technology Center, which Columbia University manages in Upper Manhattan, as a prime example.
 The Audubon center was built in the early 1990s with about $11 million in city funds, according to economic development officials. Located at 166th Street and Broadway, adjacent to the former site of the Audubon Ballroom, where Malcolm X was assassinated in 1965, it contains about 100,000 square feet of office and lab space for nascent biotech companies. 
 That is about one-tenth of what the city needs to attract a ''critical mass'' of biotech businesses, Ms. Wylde said. Having incubators, like the Audubon center and another at the State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn, known as SUNY Downstate, is helpful but not sufficient to keep growing companies in the city, she said. The scientists prefer to be in a cluster where they can share ideas and equipment, but the cost of operating in New York City has been prohibitive for many of them.
 ''Nobody wanted to start their company here because all they would have to do is move,'' Ms. Wylde said.
 The city is home to the headquarters of some big pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer, but most of their scientists work in labs in New Jersey or farther away. One exception to the rule is ImClone Systems, a company developing cancer treatments that set up research labs on Varick Street in Lower Manhattan in 1986 and grew quickly. 
 But ImClone's name was tarnished in 2002 when its founder, Samuel D. Waksal, was arrested, and later convicted, in an insider-trading scandal. Martha Stewart, who was a friend of Mr. Waksal's, went to prison for lying about the circumstances of her sale of shares of ImClone stock. The company's continued presence in the city is in doubt because Eli Lilly, a large drug company based in Indiana, offered last month to buy ImClone for $6.5 billion.
 Retaining the next generation of ImClones is the goal behind the city's investment in the East River Science Park and the Brooklyn Army Terminal. The science park, being built by a California developer, will offer new space at competitive rates. The Brooklyn project is aimed at those outfits, like the AIDS vaccine initiative, that cannot afford Manhattan rent.
 Seth Berkley, president and chief executive of the AIDS initiative, said his nonprofit organization considered several alternatives around the region when it began to outgrow its space at SUNY Downstate. He estimated it would have cost at least $70 a square foot to move into the science park when it is finished, too much for a nonprofit operation. 
 ''When we negotiated with the city, we said, for the type of stuff we're doing that's not acceptable,'' Mr. Berkley said.
 The Economic Development Corporation was planning to renovate the south end of one of two huge buildings at the Army terminal as a bioscience center. But Mr. Berkley's group, known as IAVI, had a different idea: Because their labs required so much equipment for filtering air and venting chemical fumes, they wanted to take 36,000 square feet of the top floor on the north side of the building.
 There, they could install much of the infrastructure on the roof, allowing for maximum use of the floor space, said Stephen Kaminsky, the initiative's director of protein and analytical chemistry. Turning a building that once was the jumping-off point for soldiers headed overseas -- including Elvis Presley in 1958 -- into a state-of-the-art lab for testing various proteins that could kill the virus that causes AIDS was a challenge, Mr. Kaminsky said. But among the advantages, he said, is that the terminal is so sturdy that the scientists will not have to worry much about vibrations that could upset their experiments.
 The initiative is installing $3 million worth of scientific equipment, some of which was bought with money contributed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Mike Goldrich, the organization's chief operating officer, said. But it would not be staying in Brooklyn without the hefty financial assistance provided by the city.
 Along with the $12.5 million in public funds to fit out the space, the initiative received a 15-year lease that starts at a below-market rate of $16 per square foot. Only 30 to 40 people will work there at the outset, but city officials hope that number will double over time.
 They and the scientists hope that the new lab will not be alone in the terminal for long. Mr. Kaminsky said having other tenants in related fields would help to attract speakers for seminars on recent scientific advances. The vaccine researchers also hope there will be an area in the building to house the monkeys, rabbits and other small animals that would be needed for experiments. And, of course, it would help to have neighbors to borrow supplies from in a pinch.
 ''There's an advantage to having people who do the same things you do in the same place,'' Mr. Kaminsky said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy Zamb, director of the AIDS vaccine laboratory opening at the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park. Pipettes in the lab, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); AIDS & HIV (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); HOSPITALS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); VACCINES (72%); WORLD WAR I (72%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008



521 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Transition Team Restricts Help of Lobbyists

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Turning to campaign promises in which he pledged sweeping ethics restrictions, President-elect Barack Obama will bar lobbyists from helping to pay the costs of his transition to power or working for it in any area in which they have represented clients in the last year, his transition team said Tuesday.
 Mr. Obama's aides indicated that they expected the rules to apply to his inauguration as well as the transition, but said they had yet to make a final decision on how the inauguration would be paid for. 
 John D. Podesta, a co-chairman of the Obama transition, called the restraints ''the strictest, the most far-reaching ethics rules of any transition team in history.''
 ''If someone has lobbied during the past 12 months, they're prohibited from working in the fields of policy on which they lobbied and will have to cease all lobbying activities during their work on the transition,'' Mr. Podesta said, speaking to reporters in the first official briefing by the transition team.
 But the new rules do seem to leave some wiggle room. Aides to Mr. Obama, who declared during the campaign that lobbyists would not ''find a job in my White House,'' said the guidelines allowed for lobbyists to work on the transition in areas where they have not done any lobbying.
 Further, the rules apply to lobbyists who must register with the federal government; many people who work for lobbying firms or in other areas of the influence business in Washington do not have to register, because they do not personally lobby federal officials on specific issues.
 Mr. Podesta said he expected the transition to employ some 450 people and have a budget of about $12 million. Of that amount, $5.2 million will be paid by the government, with the remaining $6.8 million coming from private sources, he said. Contributions will be limited to $5,000, he said, and the transition will not accept money from political action committees.
 During a presidential campaign in which he raised $650 million, Mr. Obama changed the rules of fund-raising, declining public financing and creating his own multimillion-member chain of donors. At least some of those contributors will be solicited for the transition.
 As a candidate, Mr. Obama laid out more detailed and onerous ethics rules than any previous prospective president, pledging to bar appointees for two years from working on matters involving their former employers, to prohibit departing officials from lobbying his administration for its duration and to require all political appointees to disclose publicly every meeting with registered lobbyists.
 The rules have led to some grumbling that at a time of immense challenges, an Obama administration could be excluding a pool of substantial talent by stopping people from working for the White House in the areas they know best.
 ''I've heard the complaint,'' Mr. Podesta said, ''which is we're leaving all this expertise on the side, because we're leaving all the people who know everything out in the cold. And so be it. This is a commitment that the American public expects, and it's one that we intend to enforce during the transition.''
 It remains unclear how the rules will affect the inauguration. President Bush raised more than $40 million for his second inauguration, mostly from companies and executives. 
 While aides to Mr. Obama say they are keenly aware that a lavish celebration might not be well received given the faltering economy, they indicate that the historic nature of Mr. Obama's inauguration and the expectations of high turnout all but guarantee that the occasion, on Jan. 20, will be a huge one.
 Yet in one early sign that the celebrations are likely to be somewhat scaled back, Mr. Obama canceled fireworks on election night in Grant Park in Chicago, telling his advisers that the times were too serious for that type of festivity.
 ''It's going to be a balancing act,'' one Obama aide said, ''and I'm not sure how it's going to be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama marked Veterans Day by laying a wreath at the Bronze Soldiers Memorial in Chicago. He was joined by Tammy Duckworth, Illinois's director of veterans' affairs, who served in the war in Iraq and lost both of her legs there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ETHICS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); IRAQ WAR (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN PODESTA (79%); TAMMY DUCKWORTH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



522 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: How to Fix a Flat

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Last September, I was in a hotel room watching CNBC early one morning. They were interviewing Bob Nardelli, the C.E.O. of Chrysler, and he was explaining why the auto industry, at that time, needed $25 billion in loan guarantees. It wasn't a bailout, he said. It was a way to enable the car companies to retool for innovation. I could not help but shout back at the TV screen: ''We have to subsidize Detroit so that it will innovate? What business were you people in other than innovation?'' If we give you another $25 billion, will you also do accounting?
 How could these companies be so bad for so long? Clearly the combination of a very un-innovative business culture, visionless management and overly generous labor contracts explains a lot of it. It led to a situation whereby General Motors could make money only by selling big, gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s and trucks. Therefore, instead of focusing on making money by innovating around fuel efficiency, productivity and design, G.M. threw way too much energy into lobbying and maneuvering to protect its gas guzzlers. 
 This included striking special deals with Congress that allowed the Detroit automakers to count the mileage of gas guzzlers as being less than they really were -- provided they made some cars flex-fuel capable for ethanol. It included special offers of $1.99-a-gallon gasoline for a year to any customer who purchased a gas guzzler. And it included endless lobbying to block Congress from raising the miles-per-gallon requirements. The result was an industry that became brain dead. 
 Nothing typified this more than statements like those of Bob Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman. He has been quoted as saying that hybrids like the Toyota Prius ''make no economic sense.'' And, in February, D Magazine of Dallas quoted him as saying that global warming ''is a total crock of [expletive].'' 
 These are the guys taxpayers are being asked to bail out.
 And please, spare me the alligator tears about G.M.'s health care costs. Sure, they are outrageous. ''But then why did G.M. refuse to lift a finger to support a national health care program when Hillary Clinton was pushing for it?'' asks Dan Becker, a top environmental lobbyist.
 Not every automaker is at death's door. Look at this article that ran two weeks ago on autochannel.com: ''ALLISTON, Ontario, Canada -- Honda of Canada Mfg. officially opened its newest investment in Canada -- a state-of-the art $154 million engine plant. The new facility will produce 200,000 fuel-efficient four-cylinder engines annually for Civic production in response to growing North American demand for vehicles that provide excellent fuel economy.'' 
 The blame for this travesty not only belongs to the auto executives, but must be shared equally with the entire Michigan delegation in the House and Senate, virtually all of whom, year after year, voted however the Detroit automakers and unions instructed them to vote. That shielded General Motors, Ford and Chrysler from environmental concerns, mileage concerns and the full impact of global competition that could have forced Detroit to adapt long ago.
 Indeed, if and when they do have to bury Detroit, I hope that all the current and past representatives and senators from Michigan have to serve as pallbearers. And no one has earned the ''honor'' of chief pallbearer more than the Michigan Representative John Dingell, the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee who is more responsible for protecting Detroit to death than any single legislator.
 O.K., now that I have all that off my chest, what do we do? I am as terrified as anyone of the domino effect on industry and workers if G.M. were to collapse. But if we are going to use taxpayer money to rescue Detroit, then it should be done along the lines proposed in The Wall Street Journal on Monday by Paul Ingrassia, a former Detroit bureau chief for that paper.
 ''In return for any direct government aid,'' he wrote, ''the board and the management [of G.M.] should go. Shareholders should lose their paltry remaining equity. And a government-appointed receiver -- someone hard-nosed and nonpolitical -- should have broad power to revamp G.M. with a viable business plan and return it to a private operation as soon as possible. That will mean tearing up existing contracts with unions, dealers and suppliers, closing some operations and selling others and downsizing the company ... Giving G.M. a blank check -- which the company and the United Auto Workers union badly want, and which Washington will be tempted to grant -- would be an enormous mistake.''
 I would add other conditions: Any car company that gets taxpayer money must demonstrate a plan for transforming every vehicle in its fleet to a hybrid-electric engine with flex-fuel capability, so its entire fleet can also run on next generation cellulosic ethanol. 
 Lastly, somebody ought to call Steve Jobs, who doesn't need to be bribed to do innovation, and ask him if he'd like to do national service and run a car company for a year. I'd bet it wouldn't take him much longer than that to come up with the G.M. iCar. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); ALCOHOLS (67%); ETHANOL (67%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (78%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



523 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Leader Volunteers To Be U.S.-Iran Mediator

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting from Ankara, Istanbul and Erzurum, Turkey.

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey 

 BODY:
Turkey wants to be the mediator between the new Obama administration and Iran, using its growing role in the Middle East to bridge the divide between East and West, said Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 
 Mr. Erdogan said in an interview on Sunday that Barack Obama's election opened new opportunities for a shift in relations between the United States and Iran, Turkey's neighbor. Mr. Obama said during his campaign that he would consider holding talks with Iran, something the Bush administration has long opposed. 
 Mr. Erdogan described the note of congratulations sent to Mr. Obama last week by the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, as ''a step that has to be made use of.'' 
 ''We are ready to be the mediator,'' Mr. Erdogan said, before going to the United States to attend a meeting about the global economic crisis. ''I do believe we could be very useful.''
 The United Nations has placed sanctions on Iran for a nuclear program that the United States and other nations say is working to develop a nuclear bomb. Iran says the program is peaceful. 
 Turkey supports the position of its Western allies but argues that the sanctions are weakening Iranian reformists.
 ''We watch the relations between Iran and U.S. with great concern,'' Mr. Erdogan said. ''We expect such issues to be resolved at the table. Wars are never solutions in this age.''
 Turkey fears an economically and politically isolated Iran, which supplies it with its principal alternative to Russian energy. It also wants to avoid another military conflict on its borders.
 ''They are deathly afraid of what might come,'' said a Western official who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. ''They don't want a repeat of Iraq.'' 
 Turkey argues that it is uniquely positioned to facilitate talks between Washington and Tehran. It is a NATO member, and it secured a nonpermanent seat on the United Nations Security Council last month. It is a Muslim country that has renewed relations with its Middle Eastern neighbors in recent years, achieving a breakthrough in May by bringing Israel and Syria together for talks for the first time in years. 
 But Western officials express skepticism that Turkey, a member of the Western alliance, could succeed as an impartial moderator between Washington and Tehran. Turkey's relationship with Iran is complex. The nations have energy and cultural ties but vie for political influence in the region. And despite the Islamic tint of Mr. Erdogan's government, Turkey is constitutionally secular and has deep ideological differences with Iran.
 ''They know that being a mediator between the West and Iran is really risky,'' said the Western official who requested anonymity. ''It's going to put them in the wrong place.''
 Still, with a new American administration and a president-elect who has said he intends to make broad changes in foreign policy, there may be opportunities. 
 ''The ice will start shifting again in interesting and different ways,'' the official said. 
 After its founding in the 1920s, Turkey cut off relations with its Muslim neighbors, even changing its alphabet from Arabic to Latin. It has been a close ally of the United States, supporting Washington throughout the cold war, but it had little voice of its own in international affairs.
 Since Mr. Erdogan's party came to power in 2002, however, Turkey has hosted presidents, prime ministers and kings of at least six Middle Eastern countries, including Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Syria and Qatar. Mr. Ahmadinejad visited this summer. 
 Neighboring countries now account for 30 percent of Turkey's foreign trade, up from 8 percent before Mr. Erdogan's party was elected, said Ahmet Davutoglu, Mr. Erdogan's top foreign policy adviser.
 ''Our principle in foreign policy is we're against earning enemies,'' Mr. Erdogan said.
 The government has also expanded ties outside the region -- announcing plans to open 15 new embassies in sub-Saharan Africa, up from 12 -- and has tried to rethink relationships at home. Last month, Turkish officials held talks with Massoud Barzani, the leader of the Kurdish enclave in northern Iraq, a move that would have been unthinkable a year ago. 
 ''This is no longer a country that makes foreign policy decisions based on 'What would the West think?' '' said Soner Cagaptay, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. 
 Mr. Davutoglu said that a diversified foreign policy was just good business, and that the shift did not mean that Turkey was exchanging one alliance for another. 
 ''No one should misunderstand that Turkey is now focusing more on Middle Eastern diplomacy than NATO -- no,'' he said. ''If we are more influential in the Middle East, it is an asset for our process in Europe, it is an asset in NATO.''
 There have been missteps, as when officials of the militant Palestinian group Hamas visited in 2006, but Turkey quickly backpedaled after Israel and the United States protested. 
 ''They've been very helpful,'' the Western official said of the Turks. And though diplomacy with Iran is a long way from succeeding, the official said that ''one of the things that could help is a fellow Muslim country that is trying to lead Iran in a different direction.''
 Mr. Erdogan, for his part, said Mr. Obama's election offered a chance for the United States to regain the trust of the world and reclaim ''an image that's been lost.''
 He said that the United States had ''declared certain values firmly at the start of the 21st century,'' but that ''not only did they not advance, they stepped backward.''
 ''For me,'' the prime minister said, ''it's very important to put these values into practice.''
 Mr. Erdogan, who is finishing his sixth year as prime minister, offered Mr. Obama some advice: ''Maintain the steadiness of your spine, but don't engage in fights.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in his official residence in Ankara, Turkey. He hopes to be a bridge between East and West.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); RELIGION (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) TURKEY (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN (90%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



524 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2344 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, November 12, 2008

 BODY:
International
 TENSION BETWEEN RUSSIA AND U.S.
 Increases Over NATO's Ranks
 A coming NATO meeting could be as much about relations between Russia and the West as about membership for Georgia and the Ukraine. After the two country's admittance was blocked by Russia and a coalition of NATO countries, Secretary of Defense, Robert M. Gates will be meeting in Estonia to discuss how to rapidly bring at least Ukraine into the alliance. Page A11 
 TURKEY OFFERS ITSELF AS MEDIATOR
 Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, above, has offered his country as a bridge for talks that could cross the gap between Washington and Tehran. The offer was a result of President-elect Barack Obama's comments during his campaign that he would be open to talks with Iran, and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's letter of congratulations on Mr. Obama's electoral victory. Page A14 
 CHINA AND IRAQ SIGN OIL DEAL
 China and Iraq have signed a contract that allows two Chinese-owned companies, CNPC and Norinco, to develop the Adhab oil field in southern Iraq, according to an Iraqi oil ministry official, Ahmed al-Shamaa. The deal is expected to open the doors for a variety of others that Iraq has been negotiating recently, said an American official, and is a positive sign of Iraq's stability in reaching beyond a select group of customers. Page A10 
 SOUTHEAST ASIA ON CRISIS'S EDGE
 The remnants of the Thailand's last financial crisis are still arrayed across Bangkok, half-finished buildings a constant reminder of the real estate bubble that burst in 1997. Signs of current problems are more subtle: expressway traffic has fallen by 6 percent, and the stock market dropped. This time, world economic troubles are to blame, and for Southeast Asia the full effects are likely to come next year. Page A8 
 BRITAIN'S SHORTAGE OF SPERM DONORS
 Britain is experiencing a shortage of sperm donors leading to long waits at clinics and causing some to stop offering donor sperm entirely. Fertility experts are calling for nationwide changes to reverse this effect. The shortage could be due to a change in the law in 2005 that protected donor anonymity: people conceived with donor sperm now have the right -- upon turning 18 -- to know the identity of their biological father. Page A15 
 IN AUSTRALIA, 5 ON TRIAL FOR TERROR
 Five men went on trial in Sydney, Australia. They stand accused of plotting a terrorist attack and stockpiling weapons and explosives. Prosecutors argued that the men were Islamist extremists bent on waging terrorist acts against non-Muslims. The men were arrested in a raid on November 2005 and for the last eight months the pretrial arguments have taken place behind closed doors. The men face possible life sentences if convicted. Page A11 
 National
 OBAMA SETS LOBBYIST POLICY IN ATTEMPT TO STOP REVOLVING DOOR
 President-elect Barack Obama, trying to fulfill campaign promises of sweeping ethics restrictions, will bar lobbyists from working for his administration in any area in which they represented clients and from helping to pay the costs of his transition to power, his transition team said. His aides indicated that they expected the tough rules to apply to Mr. Obama's inauguration as well, but said they had yet to make a final decision on how to pay for it. PAGE A17 OBAMA TRIES TO WAIT TILL JAN. 20
 The leaders of 19 foreign powers, including Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China, converge on Washington on Friday for an emergency economic meeting hosted by President Bush. Although invited, President-elect Barack Obama has opted to stay in Chicago and will not meet any of the leaders separately. Coming so soon after last week's election, the summit has proved an uncomfortable moment for the president-elect and an early test of his handling of international diplomacy. PAGE A17 
 THE PALIN-PALIN TICKET ON TV
 Unleashed, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska seems to be everywhere these days. She did interviews with NBC and Fox News before Senator John McCain had a chance to take a customary conciliation lap on TV. And she has many more appearances scheduled. Ms. Palin could be turning to television to restore her tarnished image, jump-start a presidential bid for 2012, or both. The TV Watch by Alessandra Stanley. PAGE A18 
 ONE NEBRASKA ELECTORAL VOTE
 County election officials in Omaha are aware that the presidential race is considered over and done. But this traditionally Republican city is still counting provisional ballots. The results are likely to be momentous, at least locally. While most of Nebraska supported Senator John McCain of Arizona, the large population center around Omaha is leaning toward President-elect Barack Obama. If his edge holds, Nebraska will give one electoral vote to a Democrat for the first time since 1964. PAGE A16 
 LATE NIGHT BOOKENDS FOR CAMPAIGN
 Senator John McCain announced that he would run for president in February 2007 on ''The Late Show with David Letterman'' on CBS. On Tuesday, in his first public appearance since he delivered his concession speech, he provided a bookend to his campaign on ''The Tonight Show with Jay Leno'' on NBC. PAGE A18 
 EVERGLADES SALE NOW ONLY LAND
 The United States Sugar Corporation has agreed to sell 181,000 acres of farmland to the State of Florida for $1.34 billion in a slimmed-down deal intended to rescue the Everglades while letting the company, the nation's largest sugar producer, stay in business. PAGE A16 
 Business
 G.M. MAY NEED A FEDERAL BAILOUT,
 Both Company and Analysts Agree
 General Motors just had its 100th birthday, but fears are mounting that if the automotive company wants to reach 101, it is going to need an emergency bailout from the federal government, industry analysts said. Shares in G.M. dropped to their lowest point in 65 years after a federal finding said that it might run out of money by the end of the year. Its cash cushion is also shrinking, and if it falls low enough, G.M. will be unable to run its global operations by January, according to a financial filing for its third quarter. Page B1 
 NEGOTIATING BETTER MORTGAGE TERMS
 Turns out you don't need to be in dire financial trouble and behind on your payments as a homeowner before you can get a better deal. For the majority of homeowners, who are still current with their payments, Citigroup announced a plan to catch you before you start to fall. It plans to call mortgage borrowers in distressed areas and offer new terms to those who see difficulty paying in the future, Ron Lieber writes in Your Money. Page B1 
 OIL PRICE LOWEST SINCE MARCH 2007
 Oil prices have dropped by 59 percent from their peak this summer, the lowest number in 20 months, in spite of attempts by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to curb the fall by cutting production. The slide provides welcome relief for struggling consumers, but it shows just how dark the global economy has gotten. Page B1 
 STALLS IN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
 With the real estate market taking out projects left and right, the developers of a project for a 12-story apartment building in East Harlem had reason for a sigh of relief -- they completed financing and set a date to break ground. The building, known as the Tapestry, will have 50 percent of its 184 apartments set aside as affordable housing, something for which a need is growing as availability has slowed considerably. Page B7 
 NEW JERSEY MALLS ON A DOWNTURN
 As the downturn is felt everywhere, New Jersey's malls are battening down the hatches. The state has more malls than any other in America, and the coming holiday season is tempered by economic worry. Some unopened malls have pushed back their opening dates, while others currently in business have adopted plans like offering lots as office space, remodeling restaurant spaces and revamping their image as catering to an upscale clientele. Page B8 
 New York
 BUSH HONORS VETERANS 
 From the Deck of the Intrepid
 President Bush made a Veterans Day visit to the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space museum in New York City, becoming the second president to stand on its deck. Mr. Bush praised the members of the armed forces and the efforts of the Intrepid as a base of operations for groups that have raised more than $100 million for wounded veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Mr. Bush was praised in turn for his leadership and the absence of further terrorist acts on American soil since 9/11. Page A24 
 Sports
 JETS LEADERSHIP DIVIDED
 On Coming Patriots Encounter
 The Jets' quarterback, Brett Favre, and coach, Eric Mangini are staring through the same window at approaching playoffs. But it seems like only one is clear about what they're both looking at. With the Patriots valiantly fighting to stay upright amid player injuries, Mangini played down the importance of the Jets' and Patriots' coming encounter. But Favre is seeing clear and knows the power of defeating the Patriots, and he's not afraid to say it, Harvey Araton writes. Page B12 
 JURY FINDS FOR N.F.L. RETIREES
 More than 2,000 retired National Football League players were awarded $28.1 million by a jury in a class-action lawsuit against the N.F.L. Players Association for the union's handling of licensing fees. The verdict may redefine the relationship between active and retired players, two groups that have clashed often, most frequently over pension and disability issues. Page B15 
 A SMALL GIANT WITH A BIG GAME
 Playing for the San Francisco Giants, no matter how many batters Tim Lincecum, above, sends to the dugout with his fastball, at 5-foot-11 and 160 pounds he's still going to risk being labeled the littlest giant. Size aside, Lincecum has been voted the National League's Cy Young Award winner, by an authoritative margin. The 24-year-old led the major leagues this season with 265 strikeouts, an 18-5 record and an 2.62 earned run average. Page B13 
 Obituaries
 ARTHUR J. SHAWCROSS, 63
 The life of a serial killer came to an end while he was serving a 250-year-to-life sentence for the murder of 11 women in the Rochester area during the late 1980s. Mr. Shawcross had complained of leg pain and was moved from Sullivan state prison to a hospital in Albany, where he died. The cause of his death was under investigation, a New York State Department of Corrections spokesman said. Page B19 
 Arts
 GAME SHOW IS LIFELINE OUT OF MUMBAI GHETTO
 A gaudy rush of color, sound and motion, ''Slumdog Millionaire,'' is the latest film from Danny Boyle. Set in Mumbai, the story giddily bounces from one horror to the next, Mahnola Dargis writes. A fairy tale about a pauper, played by Dev Patel, above, angling to become a prince, the movie proves to be one of the most upbeat stories about living in hell imaginable, where the pauper ends up in the hot seat on ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.'' PAGE C1
 SALE PERTURBS FEMALE ARTISTS
 Pen and Brush, a century-old townhouse and former club in Greenwich Village has been the professional home to many female artists and writers. And they are not pleased to hear that they may lose their work space, as the townhouse has been listed for sale at an asking price of $13.5 million. Leaders of Pen and Brush blame high costs of maintenance and repairs, but some renters complain of being blindsided by the group's plans to sell the building. PAGE C1
 SURVIVING THE MUSIC SALE SLUMP
 Take a dozen or two of the biggest radio hits and bundle them as a handy, snapshot-of-the-moment compilation: Voila -- the essentials for the album series ''Now That's What I Call Music!'' And although its 28 volumes have sold 61 million copies in the United States, they are not immune to the souring music market. So the ''Now'' CDs are expanding into an array of media: Web sites, TV shows and ring tones. PAGE C3
 Lessons of 'All My Sons' C1
 Dining
 ONCE AN UNPOPULAR GUEST, BREAD BASKETS MAKE A RETURN
 Although one could argue that more carbohydrates are the last things a Thanksgiving meal needs, they are also in keeping with the holiday's spirit of excess. So breads, whether fresh baked or frozen and reheated before serving, are welcome. PAGE D5
 THE INS AND OUTS OF BRINING
 With one big November decision behind us, another looms. To brine or not to brine? Mainstream food punditry maintains that brining the turkey practically guarantees a moist, tender roast. So what's not to like about a brined turkey? PAGE D3
 CARBO-LOADING, HAWAIIAN STYLE
 The plate lunch, a traditional Hawaiian meal, is simple in form but varied in its elements. Its foundation: two scoops of white rice, a side of macaroni salad, heavy on the mayonnaise, and a protein generally of the pan-Asian variety and often slathered in brown gravy. PAGE D1
 Cranberries Add the Zing D1
 Editorial
 A CASE OF RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION
 The Supreme Court is hearing arguments in a challenge to a city's decision to allow the Ten Commandments to be placed in a public park, while refusing to allow a different religion's display. Public property must be open to all religions on an equal basis or open to none at all. PAGE A30 
 WRONG MOVE, WRONG TIME
 Just as the economic crisis is driving many workers into the ranks of the unemployed and uninsured, the Bush administration has callously decided to reduce Medicaid payments to hospitals for their outpatient services. The impact could be severe. PAGE A30
 THAT'S TWO FOR ME
 We've all heard of close elections. But consider the strange (and outrageous) case of the 2006 City Council election in Anamosa, Iowa. PAGE A30
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 How could Detroit's Big Three be so bad for so long? Clearly the combination of a very un-innovative business culture, visionless management and overly generous labor contracts explains a lot of it. PAGE A31
 FAST TRACK TO EFFICIENCY
 President-elect Barack Obama is about to inherit a muddled, dysfunctional federal bureaucracy, writes Paul C. Light, author of ''A Government Ill Executed.'' But there is an old presidential authority that, if restored, would help get our government working again, he says. PAGE A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (85%); TERRORISM (84%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (64%); SENTENCING (63%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (63%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (62%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (60%); ARRESTS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ROBERT M GATES (56%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (55%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (77%) IRAQ (94%); UKRAINE (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ESTONIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); THAILAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



525 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Dean Seeks Some Respect (and Credit) for Obama's Victory

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It took just one day after the presidential race for the Democratic National Committee to issue a memorandum claiming some credit on behalf of its party chairman, Howard Dean, for the election of Barack Obama. The memorandum argued that Mr. Obama's sweeping victory was, at least in part, the fruit of Mr. Dean's touchstone 50-state strategy, in which he spent money establishing a Democratic presence across the country.
 Mr. Dean's interest in making this argument is understandable. While the 50-state approach was applauded by state party chairs -- who welcomed the influx of Democratic National Committee money that allowed them to hire staff in their states -- it was strongly criticized by Democratic congressional leaders in 2006. They wanted Mr. Dean to use Democratic Party money to help them in the hard-fought mid-term elections, with the party poised to make big gains. Mr. Dean refused, engaging in some fairly nasty and public fights with party leaders, who accused him of being stubborn and politically reckless. 
 Looking back at this presidential election, there is no question that Mr. Obama competed in -- and won -- states where Democrats had been shut out for years. But was this really the result of Mr. Dean's 50-state strategy? 
 Mr. Dean may indeed have foreseen that the Democratic Party was making a mistake in always focusing on the same handful of states. But as he argued, this was an investment that would take time to bear fruit. Again and again, he said the party had to think about its long-term growth, rather than just the next election or two. And a year in which Democrats were running against a party freighted by the most unpopular president in history -- and amidan economic collapse -- is probably not the best laboratory for measuring the success of his experiment.
 The argument that Mr. Dean's actions set the stage for Mr. Obama's broad win in a presidential campaign may prove more problematic. The decision to expand the playing field was one of the defining strategies laid out by David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's wily campaign manager, who was always pushing his campaign to break the old rules. Throughout the year, Mr. Plouffe made the case that the Obama campaign would compete in, and could win, states that Democrats had written off for years for reasons that were very particular to the nature of the Obama campaign and the dynamics of the 2008 race.
 The first factor was resources: Mr. Obama had so much money that he could afford to compete in all kinds of places that might, in another year, have seemed like long shots.
 No less important a factor was the prolonged Democratic calendar, which kept Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton competing right through to the end, on June 3. By the time the Democratic nominating process was over, as Mr. Plouffe said at the time, the Obama campaign had had some presence in almost every state. Voters had seen and heard him and, more significant, the campaign had established organizations in states where Democratic presidential candidates have rarely touched down.
 And the campaigns became familiar with the politics and cultures of states that had not been part of the Democratic nominating process for years. Thus, Mr. Plouffe was arguing last spring, to often skeptical listeners, that demographic changes he was seeing in Indiana and North Carolina, which did not hold their primaries until May 6, meant both would be in play in the fall. (As promised, Mr. Obama competed heavily in, and won, both states).
 The third factor was African-American voters in states like North Carolina and to a lesser extent Indiana , and even in Georgia.
 Mr. Dean sent resources into all these states. But one defining characteristic of the Obama campaign was the extent to which it insisted on keeping control over everything, often to the irritation of state Democratic leaders. Mr. Obama's aides, while taking pains to praise Mr. Dean's philosophical approach in trying to make the party more competitive in more states, said that the Obama campaign relied almost completely on its own staff, money and organization in making incursions into Republican states.
 This is more than a simple who-should-get-the-credit post-election argument. Mr. Dean is very much thinking about his legacy after a campaign in which he was criticized for failing to mediate potentially divisive disputes among the candidates, for long-lasting fights over what to do about the disputed Florida and Michigan primaries (the party refused to recognize the votes because both states broke party rules and held their contests in January) and for his party's difficulty in keeping pace with the Republicans in raising funds.
 Should his 50-state strategy be vindicated over the next few election cycles, the problems of 2008 will certainly be forgotten. For Mr. Dean, it's simply too soon to call the question.
 Mr. Dean is not seeking a second term in January, and his name is circulating as a possible secretary of health and human services. A post-Election Day memorandum arguing that he deserves some credit for helping to make Mr. Obama the nation's 44th president can not hurt.
 Mr. Dean, as can be forgotten considering his rise to national prominence as a losing presidential candidate in 2004 and as a highly combative party chairman now, is a medical doctor who, as former governor of Vermont, championed expanding health care coverage. He also is a favorite of the netroots.
 That said, the man who Mr. Dean fought bitterly and famously with over his 50-state strategy was Representative Rahm Emanuel, the Illinois Democrat who headed the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee -- and who Mr. Obama named last week as his chief of staff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



526 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Seek Emergency Help For Automakers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democratic Congressional leaders said Tuesday that they were ready to push emergency legislation to aid the imperiled auto industry when lawmakers return to Washington next week, setting the stage for one last showdown with President Bush.
 ''Next week, during the lame-duck session of Congress, we are determined to pass legislation that will save the jobs of millions of workers whose livelihoods are on the line,'' the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in a statement. 
 His call for the session, the first since the election, came shortly after the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, said Congress and the administration ''must take immediate action'' to stave off a possible collapse of the American auto industry. 
 Ms. Pelosi stopped short of saying Congress would adopt legislation to provide emergency financial aid to the automakers, giving the Treasury Department the option of using money from the $700 billion bailout program instead. 
 But with the White House insisting that the bailout money be reserved for financial institutions, that option seemed unlikely, leading a senior Democratic official to say Democrats would try to force Mr. Bush's hand. 
 Congressional aides said that Democrats, should they move ahead with emergency legislation, would have to decide whether to put forward a stand-alone measure for the auto industry or include the aid in a wider economic stimulus measure. Such a package as the latter is likely to include extended unemployment benefits, aid to strapped states and cities, new money for health care and food stamps and possibly money for public works -- all programs Mr. Bush has resisted. 
 Mr. Reid and Ms. Pelosi have urged the Bush administration to help the major automakers, especially General Motors, which is fast depleting its cash reserves and seems to be hurtling toward bankruptcy. G.M. shares, pummeled for weeks, fell an additional 13 percent on Tuesday to $2.92, its lowest point since 1943. G.M. on Monday warned shareholders that it might not be able to continue as a ''going concern.''
 At a meeting on Monday at the White House, President-elect Barack Obama also urged Mr. Bush to help the automobile companies, and Congressional aides said Democratic leaders were coordinating their activities with his transition team. 
 ''In order to prevent the failure of one or more of the major American automobile manufacturers,'' Ms. Pelosi said in her statement, ''which would have a devastating impact on our economy, particularly on the men and women who work in that industry, Congress and the Bush administration must take immediate action.'' 
 She added, ''I am confident Congress can consider emergency assistance legislation next week during a lame-duck session, and I hope the Bush administration would support it.'' 
 A senior Democratic official, who did not want to be identified talking publicly about party strategy, said Ms. Pelosi had decided to challenge Mr. Bush to work with the Democrats or veto aid to the teetering auto companies -- and take the blame if one of them fails. 
 The White House has resisted calls by Congress to use the $700 billion to help the automakers, saying that money is better spent easing the credit crunch at the heart of the economic crisis. 
 Tony Fratto, the deputy White House press secretary, said it was not clear what the Democrats were proposing to do. But Mr. Fratto said Congress might better focus its efforts by easing restrictions on $25 billion in plant-retooling loans for the automobile industry that were approved in September. 
 The automakers have called for at least $25 billion more in assistance, and industry experts say G.M., Ford and Chrysler need quick access to unrestricted cash to help meet payroll and other basic obligations. 
 Mr. Bush, at his meeting with Mr. Obama on Monday, reiterated his longstanding desire to a reach a free-trade agreement with Colombia, which Mr. Obama and other Democrats have opposed. Some officials suggested Mr. Bush would back aid for the automakers in exchange for Democratic support on the free-trade deal, a notion that the White House dismissed. 
 A standalone bill would have the best chance of winning passage in Congress, where Republicans for the moment still retain a powerful minority in the Senate, and the best chance of winning Mr. Bush's signature. 
 But many Democrats, and many leading economists, have said there is a need for a broader stimulus, and Democrats have been working on a package that would include an increase of unemployment benefits, new infrastructure spending, financial assistance for states struggling with increased Medicaid costs and increased food stamps. 
 Whichever path they choose, Democrats could be headed for a confrontation with Mr. Bush and were setting the stage for a dramatic lame-duck session, including a potential reunion on Capitol Hill of Mr. Obama, Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the defeated Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona. 
 Mr. Obama does not intend to play a leading role in the session. Aides said he was focused on the economic packages he would offer as president, as well as working behind the scenes with Congressional Democratic leaders. But aides have not definitively ruled out the prospect of Mr. Obama casting his vote if it was needed. His Senate replacement will not be named by then.
 The Senate had long planned to come back into session next week to deal with a public lands bill, and both the Senate and the House had planned to begin organizing for the next Congress.
 But it was not certain that the House would convene for a formal post-election session, in which dozens of retiring and defeated lawmakers will be called back to work. House Democrats have said they are not inclined to spend time considering a stimulus package if it was only going to be vetoed by Mr. Bush.
 With the auto companies reeling and Mr. Bush sending no signal that he would act, Ms. Pelosi said she had asked Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, to begin drafting legislation directing that part of the $700 billion bailout be used to help the automakers. 
 ''Emergency assistance to the automobile industry would be conditioned on executive compensation restrictions, a prohibition on golden parachutes, rigorous independent oversight and other taxpayer protections to ensure that any companies that benefit from this assistance and not the taxpayers bear the full burden of repaying any costs that are incurred,'' Ms. Pelosi said in her statement. 
 Ms. Pelosi's position drew quick support from Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and a top ally of the auto industry, who said he was working with other Michigan lawmakers on a measure to help the industry ''re-emerge as a global, competitive leader in fuel efficiency and in new, path-breaking, energy-efficient technologies that protect our environment.'' 
 General Motors, and to a lesser extent, Ford, were also mobilizing their car dealers and suppliers across the country to exert pressure on the White House and Congressional Republicans to support federal relief, according to industry sources. 
 They noted that Kentucky, the home state of Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, has auto manufacturing facilities that could make him sympathetic to moving quickly on aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NANCY PELOSI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); HARRY REID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



527 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: At Forum on Budget Cuts, Blunt Talk From Paterson

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: SYRACUSE 

 BODY:
Even by the standards of upstate New York, where the abundance of shuttered factories and storefronts serve as a reminder that nobody's job is ever really safe, these have been rough times for Kathleen Regan. 
 So when Ms. Regan, a public school teacher whose husband was recently laid off, stepped to the microphone at a town meeting with Gov. David A. Paterson on Tuesday, she asked in a soft voice why Mr. Paterson had ruled out raising taxes on the rich to help the state solve one of the bleakest financial outlooks in its history. ''I'm having trouble explaining it to my sons and my students,'' she said.
 Mr. Paterson, who responded that he believed an income tax increase would do more harm than good by causing people to move out of the state, heard from a lot of people like Ms. Regan on Tuesday. These New Yorkers were anxious about the state's economy and skeptical about what Mr. Paterson and the State Legislature might do to try to fix it when they meet next week in an emergency session to trim as much as $2 billion from this year's budget. 
 On Wednesday, the governor is expected to announce what cuts he is proposing for state agencies and programs.
 For an hour, Mr. Paterson sat on a stool on the stage of the Onondaga County Civic Center in downtown Syracuse and took questions from 15 people in the second town meeting he has held in a week to discuss the state's financial crisis. The questions were selected by the local public television station, WCNY, and Mr. Paterson's office had no control over them, creating a forum in which average citizens had virtually free reign.
 Some people expressed concerns that the state agencies or state-financed programs that they worked for would face cuts. 
 Could the governor promise that the State University of New York system would not have to accept any further reductions to its budget, one questioner asked. Would county and town governments be forced to pick up the slack if state funding was eliminated, another wondered.
 And every time Mr. Paterson was asked if he could promise to spare a cherished program, he said no. Acknowledging that he sounded a bit blunt, Mr. Paterson said at one point during the meeting, ''We have got to start telling people the truth.''
 When the moderator, Susan Arbetter, a public television reporter, asked Mr. Paterson if his approach to cutting the budget would be like using a scalpel instead of a large knife, the governor said, ''We'll be using a big knife but trying to operate it like a scalpel.''
 Mr. Paterson has already hinted at large cuts to come. Over the weekend he said that the two largest areas of the budget -- health care and education -- would most likely see their budgets shrink considerably this year. 
 Teachers' unions have strongly objected, saying that mid-year cuts would throw school systems into disarray. 
 When asked during the town meeting about comments to this effect from Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of the New York State United Teachers, Mr. Paterson said that he thought Mr. Iannuzzi's words were not constructive. ''Even if what you're saying is right, you haven't helped solve the problem,'' he said. 
 Michael Crinnin, executive director of AIDS Community Resources, which provides services to 500 HIV-positive residents and AIDS patients in central and northern New York, told the governor that since money for his program was cut 10 percent earlier this year, he has had to renegotiate leases on office space, move full-time workers to part-time status and eliminate important positions on his small staff.
 Mr. Crinnin then asked if there were any further cuts planned to his program. ''I'm not necessarily saying we are going to cut more,'' Mr. Paterson said, adding, ''We have had to cut, and we don't want to do that. But I think it just goes to show you the peril that we're actually in.'' 
 Ms. Regan, the schoolteacher, said she had never felt so financially pinched as over the past two years. 
 Ms. Regan said that she and her husband had to take their three sons out of private school. Then Ms. Regan, who taught at the same private school, quit so she could find a higher-paying job at a public school. After substitute teaching for a year, she found a permanent position as an eighth-grade history teacher. 
 She assumed her family's fortunes were improving. But then her husband recently lost his job as an artist and master craftsman, leaving her as the sole breadwinner. Even her 16-year-old son, who has worked part time during the holidays selling Christmas trees, is having a hard time finding work this year.
 During the recession of the early 1990s, she said, ''we never even felt a blip.'' Now she has to look no farther than her local paper to see how bad the situation is. The want ads she said, have shrunk from three pages to a half-page, she said.
 By coincidence, she said, the lesson plans for her eighth-grade history class have her teaching this week about a period in American history with some resonance for today: the Great Depression.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a town meeting in Syracuse, Gov. David A. Paterson said of state fiscal woes, ''We have got to start telling people the truth.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIKO J. KALLIANIOTIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); INCOME TAX (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



528 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: As Public Transit Grows, Cities Desire Streetcars

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
America may have invented the streetcar, but Europe perfected it.
 As gas prices soared and dozens of North American communities sought to reintroduce electric streetcars as an alternative to diesel buses, Europe's tram builders were some of the biggest beneficiaries.
 Now, as the administration of President-elect Barack Obama contemplates an infrastructure expansion to keep Americans working through a severe slowdown, trams may be one of the building blocks of economic revival and energy efficiency. 
 ''Trams were invented by the Americans,'' said Jean-Noel Debroise, vice president for product planning at Alstom, the French streetcar builder that is selling its sleek Citadis tram to cities like Houston and Toronto. ''It's a big market,'' he said.
 European companies like Alstom, Siemens of Germany, AnsaldoBreda of Italy, CAF of Spain and Skoda of the Czech Republic will be at the head of the line. They, along with non-European companies like Bombardier of Canada and Kinki Sharyo of Japan, are among the leading suppliers of streetcars, which are also known as light rail vehicles.
 ''If we get a program funded at the federal level, a lot of cities will be expressing interest,'' said Jeffrey F. Boothe, a Washington lawyer specializing in public transport. ''At the end of the day, only lack of federal money was stopping them.''
 There are still plenty of obstacles to overcome, especially as state and local governments struggle to sell bonds during the credit market slowdown. 
 But that has not stopped the Europeans from watching one of the few fast-growing markets in the world: the United States. In the second quarter of 2008, use of public transport rose by 5.2 percent, while light rail use jumped 12.3 percent, according to the American Public Transportation Association. 
 As of last year, almost 1,800 miles of tramways were operating or planned in American cities.
 In May, Siemens, the market leader, landed a $277 million contract to supply streetcars to the Utah Transit Authority. The vehicles will be ready for service by 2012 and will be built at a Siemens factory in Sacramento. 
 This year, Siemens signed a $184 million order for a new light rail line in Denver.
 ''The Denver development was not atypical,'' said Oliver O. Hauck, president and chief executive of Siemens Transportation Systems. ''We began with an initial, small order'' that eventually mushroomed into a substantial commitment. Siemens first delivered eight streetcars to Denver in 1993; the last order was for 55 cars, and Mr. Hauck expects more.
 But the recent financial turmoil threatens the market. Cities and other local governments have been effectively shut out of the bond market. At last month's annual gathering of the American Public Transportation Association, discussions ran hot and cold.
 ''At one level, the gathering had the highest attendance ever,'' said Mr. Boothe, who took part. ''At another level, as you talked to friends, everybody was looking at stock values.''
 American contracts have served as a crucial support for Europe's tram builders, offsetting a slump in domestic markets. They are largely shut out of markets in Eastern Europe and Asia, which are controlled by local competitors. And Western European countries are close to saturation. 
 A recent survey for the Association of the European Rail Industry by the Roland Berger consulting group forecast annual growth of about 1 percent for European light rail over the next decade, against more than 10 percent in North America.
 Most European cities, even those with extensive subway systems, also rely on trams. For American cities, trams are increasingly seen as an alternative to far more expensive underground systems.
 Siemens started the North American tram rolling in 1975, when it signed deals to deliver modern streetcars to Calgary and Edmonton in Alberta. Five years later, it delivered its first tram cars to the United States, to San Diego.
 ''We supplied an existing European product, an imported vehicle,'' Mr. Hauck said, ''though from then on, we increased local content.''
 Obstacles abounded for the European manufacturers. For one thing, the Buy American Act required that 60 percent of a tram car, by value, come from the United States. Siemens, to meet the requirements, opened an assembly line in Sacramento.
 ''We are now at 70 percent local content, with a potential for 90 percent,'' said Robin Stimson, a Siemens vice president.
 Siemens has trams operating in Charlotte, N.C.; Houston; Norfolk, Va.; and many other cities.
 Other European players have made the market increasingly competitive. The Czech Skoda group (no relation to Volkswagen's Skoda subsidiary) has delivered trams to Portland, Ore., and Tacoma, Wash., and is now bidding for a contract in Toronto.
 AnsaldoBreda of Italy, an affiliate of the Finmeccanica group, has delivered streetcars to Cleveland; as well as San Francisco and Los Angeles. 
 Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles, or CAF of Spain, has supplied transit systems in Pittsburgh and Sacramento.
 Apart from the market for trams, Alstom, a large French conglomerate best known for making the high-speed TGV and Eurostar trains, has sold subway cars to several American cities, including San Francisco, Chicago and Washington.
 Though the Federal Transit Administration manages a $1.6 billion program for light rail, little of it, subject to complex distribution conditions, has been distributed to streetcar construction under the Bush administration. Financing has come mainly from local communities.
 Federal spending on light rail systems totaled $473.4 million last year, after $935.7 million in 2006, according to the transit administration. ''Cities opt to build locally, and eschew federal money,'' Mr. Boothe said.
 That is likely to change under the incoming Obama administration. But other obstacles remain.
 Trams in America travel at higher speeds than their counterparts in Europe, because they usually operate over longer distances, connecting city centers with suburbs, rather than circulating in downtown areas.
 To reach the 60 percent local content level, some manufacturers, like Siemens, have opened factories in the United States; others have hitched up with local partners. Skoda, for example, assembled trams for Portland and Tacoma, in conjunction with the Oregon Iron Works, near Portland.
 Competition is fierce. Bombardier of Canada knows the American market well. Kinki Sharyo of Japan, an affiliate of the Kintetsu Corporation, has supplied trams to the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, south of San Francisco; to Hudson-Bergen Light Rail in New Jersey; and to the Sound Transit Central Link in Seattle, which will begin carrying passengers next year.
 Cities that want copies of old-fashioned trolley cars, like Charlotte, Little Rock and Tampa, have acquired them from the Gomaco Trolley Company, a unit of the Gomaco Corporation, an Iowa-based maker of construction equipment.
 But the Europeans say their order books are growing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trams returned to Paris in 2006, above. European companies hope for more orders for light rail systems from American cities.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUES DEMARTHON/AGENCE FRANCE -- PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); CITIES (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); BONDS (71%); TRAINS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%)

COMPANY: ALSTOM SA (57%); SIEMENS AG (56%); BOMBARDIER INC (56%); KINKI SHARYO CO LTD (55%); AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (53%); SIEMENS TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM INC (51%)

TICKER: ALO (PAR) (57%); SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%); BBD.A (TSX) (56%); 7122 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); SIC3743 RAILROAD EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS336510 RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



529 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: World Leaders at Nation's Doorstep, but Next President Isn't Taking Meetings

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Reporting was contributed by Jeff Zeleny from Washington, Clifford J. Levy from Moscow, Nicholas Kulish from Berlin and Steven Erlanger from Paris.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The world is waiting for President-elect Barack Obama, and some of its most prominent leaders are flying into the United States this weekend clamoring to meet with him. But they will have to keep on waiting.
 The leaders of 19 foreign powers, including Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China, converge on Washington on Friday for an emergency economic summit meeting hosted by President Bush. Although invited, Mr. Obama has opted to stay in Chicago and will not meet any of the leaders separately.
 Coming so soon after last week's election, the summit meeting has proved an uncomfortable moment for the president-elect and an early test of his handling of international diplomacy. Even as aides are still closing his campaign headquarters and just beginning to assemble a governing team, they are fending off interest from foreign governments eager to take the measure of the next president and trying to avoid tying him to the departing administration. 
 Several Obama advisers, in separate interviews, all used the word ''awkward'' to describe the situation. But Robert Gibbs, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, said: ''While some may say it's awkward that he's not there, it would be far more problematic to be there. We firmly believe there is only one president at a time.''
 The situation has already fostered misunderstandings. Russian officials told reporters in Moscow that President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia would probably meet with Mr. Obama during his trip to the United States this weekend, even though the Obama camp has ruled that out.
 The potential for even more significant misunderstanding was underscored last weekend when a quick, seemingly perfunctory telephone call by Mr. Obama returning the congratulatory call of Poland's president led to a dispute about what was said about missile defense. If confusion over such a delicate issue could arise from a roughly five-minute phone call, Obama advisers reasoned, then the prospect of longer encounters in person with foreign leaders at this point would be fraught with peril. He has not even designated a secretary of state, Treasury secretary or national security adviser.
 Instead, the Obama team is scrambling to arrange for surrogates to meet with visiting foreign officials while emphasizing that Mr. Bush remains the nation's leader until Jan. 20. ''It's not appropriate for two people to show up for this meeting,'' said John D. Podesta, co-chairman of Mr. Obama's transition team.
 The White House expressed no disappointment and vowed to work closely with the president-elect. ''We continue to work with the transition team on the financial summit and will keep them up to date,'' said Gordon Johndroe, a White House spokesman.
 Foreign affairs veterans said Mr. Obama was trying to play it safe and avoid being forced to take positions on matters he is not authorized to decide, much less take ownership for the problems and decisions of Mr. Bush.
 ''I sort of understand why he can't go to that meeting,'' said Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ''What if the administration makes a suggestion that he doesn't agree with? Should he pop up and say something? Is his silence acquiescence? I think he's making the right call.''
 Stephen D. Krasner, former policy planning director at the State Department under Mr. Bush, said Mr. Obama should not assume a role he does not formally have yet. ''It may appear to be awkward,'' he said, ''but the key thing is it's a government that operates by law and Obama has no authority until he's inaugurated.''
 The period between an election and inauguration has often fostered tension and uncertainty when it comes to foreign affairs. Lyndon B. Johnson wanted his successor to support peace talks with North Vietnam and arms talks with the Soviet Union, but Richard M. Nixon undercut those efforts. The first President Bush sent troops to Somalia after his re-election defeat but before Bill Clinton's inauguration.
 The protocol for a new president's making first contacts with foreign leaders can be complicated and delicate. New presidents have traditionally made Canada's prime minister the first foreign leader they meet with after taking office, in recognition of its status as a neighbor and trading partner.
 In January 1993, Mr. Clinton met with Mexico's president in Texas while still president-elect, setting off angry protests from Canada. He responded by promising to make its prime minister his first foreign visitor after he took office. 
 Similarly, the Canadians were upset when the current President Bush took office in 2001 and promptly scheduled a trip to Mexico. Mr. Bush rectified the situation by bringing Canada's prime minister to Washington for a hurriedly arranged meeting before the departure for Mexico.
 Mr. Obama called in a campaign stop in Miami in September for ''a globally coordinated effort with our partners in the G-20.'' But some advisers said the timing was not their choice and wished there were a graceful way to postpone it. 
 Mr. Obama continues to return calls of congratulations, speaking Tuesday with the leaders of India, Kenya, Brazil and Jordan and Pope Benedict XVI. But advisers said it would be impractical to get together on the sidelines of the economic meeting with some or all 19 visiting leaders.
 Peter D. Feaver, a former strategic adviser at the National Security Council under Mr. Bush, said meeting foreign visitors should now be a low priority. ''To organize and set up a social bilat like that just consumes staff time and energy that could be devoted to transition planning and 100-day planning and staff and so forth,'' he said. ''And the payoff would be fairly low.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (88%); POLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



530 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; AUSTAN GOOLSBEE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Candidates for Obama's Inner Circle

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Being considered for: A spot on the Council of Economic Advisers or another senior-level economics role.
 Would bring to the job: Expertise in tax policy, the Internet, the new economy and investment in human capital. A young, rising-star economist at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, Mr. Goolsbee is also known for his centrism and free-trade views, qualities that could endear him to Mr. Obama's conservative critics. 
 Is linked to Mr. Obama by: His campaign for the Senate in 2004. The two men overlapped at the University of Chicago, where Mr. Obama taught at the law school and Mr. Goolsbee teaches at the business school. They did not meet, however, until the 2004 Senate campaign, after Mr. Obama's advisers called on Mr. Goolsbee for advice on economic issues. 
 In his own words:''Moral exhortation doesn't change people's behavior. Prices do.''Slate, September, 2005. 
 Used to work as: An economics columnist for The New York Times and Slate and a former host of the program ''History's Business'' on the History Channel. 
 Carries as potential baggage: A memorandum from the Canadian consulate in Chicago, made public during the presidential campaign, said Mr. Goolsbee had claimed that Mr. Obama's protectionist rhetoric was ''more reflective of political maneuvering than policy.'' Mr. Goolsbee has denied this accounting of the conversation. 
 Biography: Born Aug. 18, 1969, in Waco, Tex., and raised primarily in California. ... graduate of Milton Academy, Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received his Ph.D. in economics ... joined the faculty at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business in his mid-20s. ... a Sloan Fellow at M.I.T. and later a Fulbright scholar. ... married to Robin Winters Goolsbee; they have three children. CATHERINE RAMPELL 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); WRITERS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (51%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



531 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Dean Seeks a Share of Credit in Obama Victory

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It took just one day after the presidential race for the Democratic National Committee to issue a memorandum claiming some credit on behalf of its party chairman, Howard Dean, for the election of Barack Obama. The memorandum asserted that Mr. Obama's sweeping victory was, at least partly, the fruit of Mr. Dean's signature strategy to spend the money to establish a Democratic presence in all 50 states. 
 Mr. Dean's interest in making this argument is understandable. The 50-state strategy was applauded by state party chairmen and chairwomen -- who welcomed the influx of Democratic National Committee money that allowed them to hire staff members in their states, but it was strongly criticized by Democratic Congressional leaders in 2006. With the party poised to make big gains, they wanted Mr. Dean to help finance the hard-fought midterm elections. Mr. Dean refused, engaging in some nasty, public fights with party leaders, who accused him of being stubborn and politically reckless. 
 Looking back at this presidential election, there is no question that Mr. Obama competed in -- and won -- states where Democrats had been shut out for years. But was this really the result of Mr. Dean's 50-state strategy?
 Mr. Dean may indeed have shown foresight in arguing that the party was making a mistake in always focusing on the same handful of states. But, as he argued, this was an investment that would take time to bear fruit. 
 He said repeatedly that the party had to think about its long-term growth, rather than just the next election or two. A year in which Democrats were running against a party freighted by the most unpopular president in history -- and amid an economic collapse -- is probably not the best laboratory for measuring the success of his experiment.
 The argument that Mr. Dean's actions set the stage for Mr. Obama's broad win in a presidential campaign may prove more problematic. The decision to expand the playing field was one of the defining strategies laid out by David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's wily campaign manager, who was always pushing his campaign to break the old rules. Throughout the year, Mr. Plouffe made the case that the Obama campaign would compete in, and could win, states that Democrats had written off for years for reasons that were very particular to the nature of the Obama campaign and the dynamics of the 2008 race.
 The first factor was resources: Mr. Obama had plenty of money to compete in all kinds of places that might, in another year, have seemed like long shots.
 No less important a factor was the prolonged Democratic calendar, which kept Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton competing to the end, on June 3. By the time the Democratic nominating process was over, as Mr. Plouffe said at the time, the Obama campaign had had a presence in almost every state. Voters had seen and heard him and, more significant, the campaign had established organizations in states where Democratic presidential candidates had rarely touched down.
 And the campaigns became familiar with the politics and cultures of states that had not been part of the Democratic nominating process for years. Thus, Mr. Plouffe was arguing last spring, to often skeptical listeners, that demographic changes in Indiana and North Carolina, which did not hold their primaries until May 6, meant both would be in play in the fall. (As promised, Mr. Obama competed heavily in both states, and won them.)
 The third factor was black voters in states like North Carolina and to a lesser extent Indiana and even Georgia.
 Mr. Dean sent resources into all these states. But one characteristic of the Obama campaign was the extent to which it insisted on keeping control over everything, often to the irritation of state Democratic leaders. Mr. Obama's aides, while taking pains to praise Mr. Dean's philosophical approach in trying to make the party more competitive in more states, said that the Obama campaign relied almost completely on its own staff, money and organization in making incursions into Republican states.
 That perception was also echoed by state Republican leaders. ''I wouldn't say Democrats did it -- Barack Obama did it,'' said Katon Dawson, the South Carolina Republican chairman. ''I wouldn't give much credit to the Democratic organization.''
 This is more than a simple who-should-get-the-credit post-election argument. Mr. Dean is very much thinking about his legacy after a campaign in which he was criticized for failing to mediate potentially divisive disputes among the candidates, for long-lasting fights over what to do about the disputed Florida and Michigan primaries (the party refused to recognize the votes because both states broke party rules and held their contests in January) and for his party's difficulty in keeping pace with the Republicans in raising money.
 Should his 50-state strategy be vindicated over the next few election cycles, the problems of 2008 will certainly be forgotten. For Mr. Dean, it is too soon to call the question.
 Mr. Dean is not seeking a second term in January, and his name is circulating as a possible secretary of health and human services. A post-Election Day memorandum arguing that he deserves some credit for helping to make Mr. Obama the nation's 44th president cannot hurt.
 Mr. Dean, as can be forgotten considering his rise to national prominence as an unsuccessful presidential candidate in 2004 and as a highly combative party chairman, is a medical doctor who, as former governor of Vermont, championed expanding health care coverage. He also is a favorite of the netroots.
 That said, the man with whom Mr. Dean fought bitterly over his 50-state strategy was Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, who headed the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and whom Mr. Obama named last week as his chief of staff.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Howard Dean is the departing chairman of the Democratic National Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



532 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: G.M., Teetering on Bankruptcy, Pleads for a Federal Bailout

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Just two months after celebrating its 100th birthday, General Motors is facing the grim prognosis that it may not survive to see another year unless it is rescued by a bailout from the federal government.
Shares in G.M. sank to their lowest point in 65 years, to $2.92, on Tuesday, the day after the company revealed in a federal filing that its ''ability to continue as a going concern'' is in substantial doubt because it may run out of money by the end of the year.
Its cash cushion has been shrinking by more than $2 billion a month this fall. If that continues, G.M.'s reserves will fall below the minimum of $10 billion in cash it needs to run its global operations by January, the company said in its third-quarter S.E.C. filing. 
In that event, G.M. said it might be unable to pay its suppliers, meet its loan covenants or cover health care obligations in its labor contracts. The extent of G.M.'s financial crisis, revealed in greater detail in its filing than it acknowledged before, is proving to be far worse than investors and analysts expected just last week.
Only an emergency federal bailout seemingly stands between G.M. and a bankruptcy filing, according to industry analysts.
As the G.M.'s crisis deepens, the pressure increases in Washington to pass a rescue package for up to $50 billion in assistance for Detroit's troubled Big Three or risk the economic fallout of a bankruptcy that would affect hundreds of thousands of jobs that rely on the auto industry.
Democratic Congressional leaders said Tuesday they would push next week for emergency legislation to help the automakers.
Despite a recent plea from President-elect Barack Obama, the Bush administration has been unwilling to commit any funds to Detroit beyond a $25 billion loan program to assist the companies in developing more fuel-efficient cars.
G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, says the company cannot wait for aid that may come when Mr. Obama takes office in January.
''This is an issue that needs to be addressed urgently,'' Mr. Wagoner said in an interview with Automotive News.
Investors drove G.M.'s stock down for a fifth consecutive day Tuesday. The company's market value fell to about $1.7 billion, a more than 90 percent decline from a year ago. A spokesman for G.M., Steve Harris, said Tuesday that Mr. Wagoner's job was not in jeopardy and reaffirmed the G.M. board's support for its embattled chairman.
''Nothing has changed relative to the G.M. board's support for the G.M. management team during this historically difficult economic period for the U.S. auto industry,'' he said.
The depths of G.M.'s problems came to light in its federal filing that painted a bleak picture of a company that has lost more than $20 billion this year and is in danger of not being able to pay its bills in a few weeks.
''We do not currently expect our operations to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our obligations as they come due,'' the company said. ''And we do not have other traditional sources of liquidity available to fund these obligations.''
G.M. ended the third quarter with $16.2 billion in available cash. The company estimates it needs a minimum of $11 billion at any time to pay its bills.
At its current pace, G.M. will have less than $10 billion by the end of the year -- and that is after cutting 30 percent of its white-collar work force, halting the development of new models and temporarily shutting down most of its North American assembly plants in a desperate bid to save money.
The credit-rating agency Standard & Poor's cut its ratings on G.M. debt further into junk status on Tuesday, and Fitch ratings is also considering another cut.
Analysts said G.M.'s inability to raise cash, other than from federal loans, will force another, deeper round of restructuring -- at a minimum -- to keep it solvent.
''We expect cash outflows to quickly reduce the company's liquidity during the next few quarters, perhaps to levels that would force G.M. to consider a financial restructuring, even if it does not file for bankruptcy,'' S. & P. said.
By its own admission, G.M. cannot cut its costs fast enough to balance the sharp fall in revenue in what is the worst United States vehicle market in 15 years.
''Looking into the first two quarters of 2009, even with our planned actions, our estimated liquidity will fall significantly short of the minimum required to operate our business,'' the company said its third-quarter filing.
G.M. said the deterioration in its balance sheet could make it difficult to pay its suppliers by the end of this year, and it has no other sources of cash to tap except federal funds.
It also said it might not be in compliance with its credit agreements, including a $4.5 billion revolving credit line and a $1.5 billion term loan. ''There is no assurance we could cure a default, secure a waiver or arrange substitute financing,'' G.M. said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief, said his company needed help immediately.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (B1)
 A G.M. worker in Moraine, Ohio, at a workshop on how to get a new job. His plant is to close before the end of the year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



533 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Obama Transition Team Adopts Ethics Rules

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A top adviser to President-elect Barack Obama said Tuesday that the transition team would raise about $7 million to cover its costs, supplementing $5 million in government funds, but would reject donations from lobbyists or corporations and rely instead on the same pool of small donors who helped propel the Democrat to victory. 
 ''We'll raise all that money from individuals,'' said John D. Podesta, who is a co-chairman of Mr. Obama's transition team. ''There's a $5,000 limit on those contributions.'' 
 In his remarks to a packed briefing room in the temporary transition offices here, Mr. Podesta, a former of chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, seemed intent on striking a tone of brisk efficiency and in advertising what he insisted would be historically high standards. 
 Under the rules announced by Mr. Podesta, federal lobbyists will not be allowed to raise money for the transition, nor continue lobbying while working in the transition. In addition, he said that someone who became a lobbyist after being involved in the transition would be prohibited from lobbying the administration on related matters for 12 months. 
 ''These are the strictest ethics rules ever applied,'' he said.
 Mr. Podesta also vowed that the new administration would move ''very aggressively and very rapidly'' to address the country's energy challenges, shifting American factories and consumers toward cleaner sources of power while creating more jobs.
 Mr. Obama's first priority was ''to stabilize the economy and put America back to work,'' he said. 
 Reiterating what Mr. Obama said at a news conference last week, Mr. Podesta said that if Congress did not pass an economic stimulus package in a lame-duck session next week that was announced on Tuesday, it would be ''the first item of business after he is inaugurated.''
 He confirmed reports that the transition team was reviewing options for closing the detention camp at Guantanamo Bay, but provided no details. 
 Mr. Podesta also said that Mr. Obama had no plans to meet with any of the world leaders coming to Washington this weekend to take part in a financial summit meeting -- ''either here or in Chicago,'' where Mr. Obama is spending most of his time for now.
 He described a brisk pace for some transition actions, noting, for example, that fact-finding teams would review more than 100 agencies and commissions starting next week to aid in decisions on budget, personnel and policy. 
 He said that Mr. Obama wanted to expand on the practice of some presidents of selecting one cabinet member from the opposition party, but that whoever was chosen, it was rare for any cabinet members to be named before December.
 ''At a moment when we face the most serious challenges of a lifetime,'' said Mr. Podesta, referring to the ailing economy. ''President-elect Obama wants to assure that we hit the ground running on Jan. 20, because we don't have a moment to lose.''
 While new administrations almost always promise to hew to strict ethical standards, Mr. Podesta's language was particularly strong as he promised ''the strictest, most far-reaching ethics rules of any transition team in history.''
 He said about 450 people would be hired to undertake the work of preparing for the new administration, promising a transition ''that is efficient, that is organized, that is bipartisan, and more open and transparent than others before.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); JOB CREATION (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN PODESTA (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



534 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Rehashing '08 and Rehearsing, Perhaps, for '12

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
One of the more disconcerting leaks about Gov. Sarah Palin turned out to be true. 
 Ms. Palin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, arrived in Phoenix, Ariz., on election night hoping to deliver her own concession speech. ''It was a great speech,'' Ms. Palin told Matt Lauer on the ''Today'' show on Tuesday. 
 Aides to her running mate, Senator John McCain, told her it was not customary for the No. 2 to speak, she said. ''But, you know, I thought, even if it was unprecedented, so what, you know?'' Ms. Palin told Mr. Lauer. ''Geez, let's do something a little bit out of the box there.'' 
 And now she is. Unleashed and not humbled, Ms. Palin is on a speed date with history, upending protocol as she goes. She put herself on full display, in interviews with NBC and Fox News before Mr. McCain had a chance to take a no-victory lap on ''The Tonight Show.'' And she has many more appearances scheduled throughout the week, including a star turn at the Republican Governors Association meeting in Miami on Thursday. 
 Ms. Palin could be turning to television to restore her tarnished image, jumpstart a 2012 presidential bid, or both. But so far, viewers have mostly witnessed some of the very traits -- disarming candor and staggering presumption -- that drove some McCain campaign aides to leak damaging accusations about her. 
 The news media has moved on to President-elect Barack Obama and his transition team as they try to get a grip on the perilous state of the economy. Ms. Palin's interviews dragged the subject back to her campaign woes, and she lingered there, feeding curiosity but making no real effort to steer her questioners to the present. 
 Her demeanor is as positive and peppy as ever, but the criticism evidently took a toll. Even in her kitchen in Wasilla, Alaska, preparing dinner for the family and visiting reporters (moose chili for Greta Van Susteren, a haddock and salmon casserole for Mr. Lauer), Ms. Palin seemed frozen in the bubble of campaign past, fighting to make her case above the whispers of aides, handlers and media consultants. 
 When Mr. Lauer asked her if she minded not being allowed to give more interviews during the campaign, Ms. Palin said she would not delve into that kind of ''inside baseball,'' and then she stole a base. ''I would have loved more opportunities to speak to the American people about what I'd like to see of -- happen there with our country,'' she said pointedly.
 Ms. Palin used the term ''Sarah-centric'' to describe her campaign rallies, arguing that fans were responding to her more as a symbol than as a person. ''But not me personally were those cheers for,'' she said to Ms. Van Susteren in an interview shown Monday night on Fox News. ''But it was just for the representation of a woman on the ticket, a mom, somebody who loves this country so much, somebody very, very committed to policies that I believe will progress this country in the right direction.'' 
 At the moment, however, Ms. Palin's message sounds highly ''Sarah-centric.'' On this redemption tour, Ms. Palin is the headliner and her former running mate is a historical footnote. Ms. Palin said she wanted to introduce Mr. McCain on election night in order to ''brag him up,'' as she put it, ''and do what John McCain just can't seem to do for himself, bless his heart.'' 
 Ms. Palin denied, vehemently and in detail, that she had any role in requesting or obtaining the $150,000 wardrobe that she and her family acquired on the campaign trail. She addressed, sometimes unprompted, many other accusations that she described as ''goofy,'' including early rumors that she faked her pregnancy and that one of her daughters gave birth to her youngest son, Trig. 
 She blamed ''bloggers in their parents' basement just talking garbage,'' as well as reporters who did not let her rebut their facts and campaign aides who trashed her anonymously. She did not allow that she ever stumbled or had difficulty getting up to speed on some issues. 
 Ms. Palin said her trust in the news media and Republican consultants had been shaken, but her determination and self-confidence appeared to be unscathed. 
 ''I'm like, 'O.K., God, if there is an open door for me somewhere' -- this is what I always pray -- I'm like, 'Don't let me miss the open door,' '' she told Ms. Van Susteren. 
 ''And if there is an open door in '12 or four years later, and if it is something that is going to be good for my family, for my state, for my nation, an opportunity for me, then I'll plow through that door.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Lauer interviewed Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska for ''Today'' on NBC. She also spoke with Greta Van Susteren of Fox News. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NBC NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BASEBALL (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



535 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: More Ideas to Tackle the Climate Crisis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Climate for Change'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 9):
 Al Gore is to be applauded for coming up with a long list of good ideas on how to solve the climate crisis. I was especially pleased to hear a voice of sanity on the ''clean coal'' fantasy.
 But I think he puts too much faith in establishing a ''unified grid'' to transport renewable electricity. It won't be easy to do, and there's a lot of potential in making improvements at the point of use. 
 Geothermal heat pumps in a basement in Maine and solar panels on a roof in North Carolina can do the same for a single home as a geothermal plant in the Northwest and solar thermal plants in the Southwest can do for many customers. They may actually prove to be more cost effective. At the least, they could supplement these distant sources.
 But how is this all going to be paid for? Surveys have shown little demand pull for solar, geothermal and wind power and better insulation, energy-efficient windows and lighting. 
 The $400 billion price tag Mr. Gore says is needed over 10 years to pay for the grid would be only the beginning. I'm all for taking on the cost, but I don't think you'll find many Americans who would, while there would be many who would fight the cost tooth and nail down to the last polar bear. Barry Rehfeld 
 New York, Nov. 9, 2008
 The writer is editor of Zero Energy Intelligence.com.
 To the Editor:
 Al Gore concentrates too much on selling the idea -- the creation of jobs, new infrastructure, improved homes and businesses -- and pays lip service to the trees that create our oxygen and on which we must rely to reduce our carbon dioxide. 
 The first change that has to occur is the production of energy, a monumental task. Without that, we are going to use a lot of fossil fuel building green cars, buildings and infrastructure. And while we're doing it, the forests are going to be disappearing faster than hotcakes. 
 A good number of the world's scientists are becoming skeptical about whether the trees are going to be able to save us at this point, and not only because the trees are disappearing. The burgeoning economies of China and India are outstripping resources at an exponential rate. Just the idea of one new coal power plant going online weekly in China should give the world pause. 
 At current extraction rates, the trees will be gone before I am my father's age. When we no longer have our trees to offset the carbon we're putting in the atmosphere, then we're back to relying only on the economists and businessmen to make decisions about decreasing their wealth to be able to save the planet's atmosphere. And we know where that one will end up. 
 Peter Schlesinger
 Munich, Nov. 9, 2008
 The writer is an ecologist.
 To the Editor:
 When a politician speaks of ''investment,'' the first thing that comes up is, ''Where is the money coming from?'' The politician assumes that the money can be printed and the magic will begin. 
 There will be no climate change to worry about if the economy collapses. Adding additional ''investment'' will only bloat the national debt, reduce the value of the dollar, inflate the currency to a collapsible stage and create an environment where dirty coal will be at a premium as people struggle to survive the bitter cold. 
 The dream of jobs and prosperity is an empty vessel without a calculation of the return on capital. For without a return, the debt is not serviced and the borrowing to sustain it dries up. 
 We know how well a government can manage money, and we know the consequences of mismanagement. This knowledge cannot be negated by pie-in-the-sky dreams of government allocation. Dale Netherton 
 Farmington, Iowa, Nov. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The assumption behind Al Gore's five proposals is that growing consumption of energy is inevitable. 
 But to the extent that we have an ''energy crisis,'' it is not in our dependence on foreign sources, or even in the world's dwindling supply of petroleum or the pollution of fossil fuels. 
 The crisis stems from our absurd attitude that maintaining a wasteful, inefficient, unsustainable and, yes, immoral lifestyle is good for us, something to which we are entitled. Mike F. Foster 
 Lakewood, Colo., Nov. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Al Gore's call to action for young Americans to help chart the path to energy independence underscores the increasingly vital role of math and science education in the United States.
 We are strongest as a nation when we promote the collective success of our citizens. Just as the creation of new renewable energy jobs would stimulate the economy, society as a whole would benefit from reinvigorating math and science education. The infusion of more money into the National Science Foundation and science enrichment initiatives in schools would drive forward innovative new technologies.
 Given the challenges posed by climate change, the link between science innovation and a stable, robust economy must be considered by the new Obama administration alongside educational priorities. Lindsay Chura
 Cambridge, England, Nov. 9, 2008
 The writer is a Gates scholar at Cambridge University.
 To the Editor:
 The United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization has estimated that nearly a fifth of the world's greenhouse gases is generated by livestock production, more than by transportation.
 Yet Al Gore does not even mention the need for Americans to reduce meat consumption as we attempt to rescue ourselves from the climate crisis. 
 Michael Radkowsky
 Washington, Nov. 9, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 While we build a network of high-capacity underground electrical lines, we should also build high-capacity, high-speed, grade-level rail corridors. 
 Combining construction of both would lower the costs of each by combining right-of-way acquisition. Passenger rail, which is 5 to 10 times more efficient than air or car travel, would use local energy supplies and save energy over all.
 Plus, this construction would spur the creation of hundreds of thousands of good jobs. Ari Ofsevit 
 St. Paul, Nov. 9, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY J.D. KING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: AL GORE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (76%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



536 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Senator Takes Initiative on Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Without waiting for President-elect Barack Obama, Senator Max Baucus, the chairman of the Finance Committee, will unveil a detailed blueprint on Wednesday to guarantee health insurance for all Americans by facilitating sales of private insurance, expanding Medicaid and Medicare, and requiring most employers to provide or pay for health benefits. 
 Aides to Mr. Obama said they welcomed the Congressional efforts, had encouraged Congress to take the lead and still considered health care a top priority, despite the urgent need to address huge problems afflicting the economy. 
 The plan proposed by Mr. Baucus, Democrat of Montana, would eventually require everyone to have health insurance coverage, with federal subsidies for those who could not otherwise afford it. 
 Other Democrats with deep experience in health care are also drafting proposals to expand coverage and slow the growth of health costs. These lawmakers include Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Representatives John D. Dingell of Michigan and Pete Stark of California.
 The proposals are all broadly compatible with Mr. Obama's campaign promises. But Mr. Baucus's 35,000-word plan would go further than Mr. Obama's in one respect, eventually requiring all people -- not just children -- to have coverage. 
 ''Every American has a right to affordable, high-quality health care,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''Americans cannot wait any longer.'' Far from being a distraction from efforts to revive the economy, he said, ''health reform is an essential part of restoring America's economy and maintaining our competitiveness.'' 
 Mr. Baucus would create a nationwide marketplace, a ''health insurance exchange,'' where people could compare and buy insurance policies. The options would include private insurance policies and a new public plan similar to Medicare. Insurers could no longer deny coverage to people who had been sick. Congress would also limit insurers' ability to charge higher premiums because of a person's age or prior illness.
 People would have a duty to obtain coverage when affordable options were available to all through employers or through the insurance exchange. This obligation ''would be enforced, possibly through the tax system,'' the plan says.
 In an interview with CNN just four days before the election, Mr. Obama said his top priorities would be fixing the economy and promoting energy independence. But he added: ''Priority No. 3 would be health care reform. I think the time is right to do it.''
 Advisers to Mr. Obama said they expected him to take swift action on two fronts. First, they said, he will probably revoke a Bush administration directive that sharply restricted states' ability to expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program. In addition, they said, he will support Congressional efforts to expand the program before March 31, 2009, when at least 42 states are projected to exhaust their allotments of federal money.
 Ronald F. Pollack, the executive director of Families USA, a liberal-leaning consumer group that has worked closely with Congress and the Obama team, said, ''The prospects for meaningful health care reform have never looked better.'' Among Mr. Obama's health care strategists, Mr. Pollack said, are former Senator Tom Daschle; Jeanne M. Lambrew, a former Clinton aide; Neera Tanden, who was director of domestic policy for the Obama campaign; and Representative Rahm Emanuel, who will be White House chief of staff.
 In his plan, Mr. Baucus makes these proposals:
 People age 55 to 64 should be able to buy Medicare coverage if they do not have access to a public insurance program or a group health plan. More than four million people in this age group are uninsured.
 Medicaid would be available to everyone below the poverty level, providing at least seven million more people with access to the program. In many states, adults with incomes well below the poverty level -- $17,600 for a family of three -- are ineligible for Medicaid.
 The State Children's Health Insurance Program would be expanded to cover all uninsured youngsters in families with incomes at or below 250 percent of the poverty level ($44,000 for a family of three). This would raise the income limit in about half the states.
 Mr. Baucus would also make it easier for many legal immigrants to qualify for Medicaid and the children's health program. Under current law, such immigrants are generally barred from the programs in their first five years in the United States. He would lift that ban.
 More than half of all Americans receive coverage through employers, and Mr. Baucus said he wanted to halt the erosion of such coverage. He would offer tax credits to small businesses to help them defray the costs of providing health benefits to employees.
 To make insurance more affordable for those who buy coverage on their own, Mr. Baucus would offer tax credits to individuals and families with incomes at or below four times the poverty level ($70,400 for a family of three). Only 10 percent of the uninsured have incomes above that level, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Max Baucus is set to offer an insurance plan Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); MEDICAID (58%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MAX BAUCUS (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOHN DINGELL (58%); PETE STARK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



537 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Buying Binge Slams to Halt

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Robbie Brown, Sean Hamill and John Dougherty contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Just as one crisis of confidence may be ending, another may be coming.
 The panic on Wall Street has eased in the last few weeks, and banks have become somewhat more willing to make loans. But in those same few weeks, American households appear to have fallen into their own defensive crouch.
 Suddenly, our consumer society is doing a lot less consuming. The numbers are pretty incredible. Sales of new vehicles have dropped 32 percent in the third quarter. Consumer spending appears likely to fall next year for the first time since 1980 and perhaps by the largest amount since 1942.
 With Wall Street edging back from the brink, this crisis of consumer confidence has become the No. 1 short-term issue for the economy. Nobody doubts that families need to start saving more than they saved over the last two decades. But if they change their behavior too quickly, it could be very painful. 
 Already, Circuit City has filed for bankruptcy, and General Motors has said that it's in danger of running out of cash. If the consumer slump continues, there is a potential for a dangerous feedback loop, in which spending cuts and layoffs reinforce each other.
 ''It's a scary time,'' Liz Allen, 29, a nursing student in Atlanta, told one of the Times reporters who fanned out across the country last weekend to ask people about the economy. ''Worry can make the economy worse. If people worry too much, they won't spend as much money. We're seeing that happen, I think, already.''
 It's not entirely clear what anyone, including Barack Obama and his incoming administration, can do to temper the current worries. Mr. Obama has called for a stimulus package, which will make up for some of the consumer pullback. He and his advisers will also try to shore up confidence by projecting both a calm competence and a willingness to be more aggressive than the Bush administration. All of that should help.
 But the stimulus package under discussion would bring no more than $150 billion in new government spending. The difference between a good year for consumer spending and a really bad one is about $400 billion.
 So 2009 could turn out to be fairly miserable. The American consumer, long the spender of last resort for the global economy, may finally be spent.
 You have heard such warnings before, I realize. For years, journalists and other economic worrywarts have been predicting a serious slump in consumer spending, and it did not happen. ''Never underestimate the American consumer,'' as a Wall Street cliche puts it.
 Like most cliches, this one has some truth to it. Even before its recent housing-fueled boom, consumer spending was a bigger part of the American economy than of, say, the French or German economy. Americans like to buy things, and they also don't tend to stay pessimistic for long.
 Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, noted that his recent polls showed a sharp rise in the number of people planning to cut back on spending -- but also a clear increase in the number who expected the economy to be in better shape next year. ''What the American economy has going for it is the innate optimism of the public,'' he said. ''Americans get optimistic at the drop of a hat.''
 Perhaps falling gas prices or Mr. Obama's victory will shake them out of their torpor, Mr. Kohut said. A recent Gallup Poll found that consumer confidence rose slightly after the election. (Links to the Pew and Gallup research are at nytimes.com/economix.) Based on recent history, it's easy to imagine that the trend will continue and spending will soon bounce back. 
 Yet if the last year has proven anything, it's that we should not assume something can't happen simply because it hasn't happened recently. Cold economic realities deserve the benefit of the doubt, even when they point to uncomfortable conclusions. And right now, the economic realities are pointing to a serious consumer recession.
 Let's start with the job market. It ''already appears to be in worse shape than at any time during the recessions of the early 1990s or early 2000s,'' says Lawrence Katz, a Harvard professor and former Labor Department chief economist. Unemployment is higher than the official rate suggests, and it is rising. Incomes, which for most families barely kept pace with inflation over the past decade, are now falling.
 In all, the total amount of income taken home by American households will still probably rise next year, because the population will grow and government transfer payments (like jobless benefits) will surely increase. But total real income will rise a lot more slowly than it has been rising recently. One percent is a reasonable estimate.
 The next question is how much of that income people will spend. For decades -- from the 1950s through the 1980s -- Americans spent about 91 percent of their income, on average, and put away the rest. In the last few years, they have spent close to 99 percent and saved only about 1 percent. 
 This simply cannot continue. For one thing, people need to pay down their debts and replenish their retirement accounts. For another, the psychology of spending and saving may well be changing. After the worst housing bust on record and one of the three worst bear markets of the last century, Americans are probably starting to realize that they can't always fall back on ever-rising house values or stock values to make ends meet. 
 In the unlikely event that Mr. Obama decided to mimic President Bush's post-9/11 plea for spending in the name of patriotism, it probably would not have the same impact. We're not as flush as we were in 2001.
 Economists are now busy trying to forecast how rapidly people will begin saving again, but it's essentially an exercise in guesswork. There is no good historical analogy. A savings rate of about 3 percent seems plausible -- higher, but not radically so -- and that's what some forecasters are projecting. 
 At that rate, consumer spending would decline about 1 percent next year, which is worse than it sounds. It would be the first annual decline since 1980, as I mentioned above, and the biggest since 1942. Relative to the typical increases from recent years, it would represent $400 billion in lost consumer spending. To find a stimulus package so big, you'd have to go to Beijing.
 And get this: Spending in the last few months has actually been falling at an annual rate of 3 percent. So the seemingly pessimistic events I have sketched out here are based on the assumption that things are about to get better.
 As Joshua Shapiro of MFR, an economic research firm in New York, puts it, the American consumer has quickly gone from being the world economy's greatest strength to its Achilles' heel. ''Everything has changed,'' he says. ''The financial sector is deleveraging. Credit availability is severely constrained. Asset prices are deflating. And household balance sheets are severely stressed.''
 It would be silly to insist that a few terrible months meant the end of American consumer culture. But it would be equally silly to assume that culture could never change. It might be changing right now.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The holiday season is not quite here yet, but retailers are already bringing out deep discounts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) CHART: Engine of the Economy Stalls: Growth in consumer spending, which is about two-thirds of gross domestic product, has fallen to its lowest level since 1980. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); WRITERS (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



538 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Carbo-Loading, Hawaiian Style

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
AMONG the myriad people and institutions predicted to profit from Barack Obama's victory, why has no one cited the plate lunch?
 This traditional Hawaiian meal -- validated as fine fare by the president-elect when he proclaimed his longing for one during a vacation in Oahu last summer -- might be poised to enter the consciousness of mainlanders in all of its fatty, greasy deliciousness. 
 It is probably unrealistic to expect aloha-infused cuisine in the White House kitchen, given Mr. Obama's clear fixation with staying trim and healthy. But he has made no secret of the fact that when in Hawaii he likes to indulge in the culinary treats of his youth there, including the fast food at Zippy's, a local chain; shave ice, the ambrosial confection of powdered ice topped with fruit syrups; and the plate lunch. 
 Drawing on the food ways of the Hawaiian Islands' many Asian immigrant groups, and chowed down on regularly by everyone from surfers to businessmen to the future occupant of the White House, the plate lunch is simple in form but varied in its elements. Its foundation: two scoops of white rice and a side of macaroni salad, heavy on the mayonnaise. 
 This carbo load -- usually piled into a plastic foam container -- is paired with a protein, generally of the pan-Asian variety, often slathered in brown gravy. After a morning of hard work (or hard surf), one might opt for Korean kalbi or meat jun, Chinese char siu roast pork, Philippine pork adobo, Hawaiian kalua pork (a luau favorite), Japanese katsu or salmon teriyaki, Portuguese sausage, American-style beef stew, or loco moco -- a hamburger patty and a fried egg. 
 ''The cultural significance of the plate lunch is that it illustrates Hawaii as a special place where all of our mixed cultures share their foods with one another,'' said Matthew Gray, who runs Hawaii Food Tours, which ferries tourists to Oahu's plate lunch outlets and other lesser known haunts. ''Instead of referring to Hawaii as a melting pot, I prefer to call us a salad bowl, where we all get to share and showcase the individual flavors, aromas and histories of our food.''
 The Hawaiian plate lunch traces its roots to the 1880s, when giant fruit and sugar companies controlled much of the local economy. Among other factors, the decimation of the local population by disease made the companies desperate for plantation workers, and they drew a labor pool from China, Japan, Portugal, the Philippines and other areas. 
 For workers who toiled under harsh conditions, lunchtime was a respite, with hearty portions of rice matched with whatever meat was left over from dinner the night before. 
 ''The workers would take their bento in these little tins,'' said Kaui Philpotts, the former food editor of The Honolulu Advertiser, who has written books about Hawaiian food. 
 ''They didn't eat sandwiches or things like that,'' Ms. Philpotts said, ''it was leftover rice and a lot of things like canned meat or teriyaki or cold meat or maybe scrambled eggs or pickles, and almost no salad or vegetable.''
 Macaroni, a later addition, seemed to bridge many national tastes and, slick with mayonnaise and a dab of salt and pepper, mixes well with a gravy-covered slab of meat.
 After the plantation days ended, the plate lunch lived on. In the 1960s, it moved into lunch wagons, which took meals to workers putting up buildings and conducting other forms of day labor, with little time for lunch. 
 Enter next the holes in the wall and other stand-alone plate lunch restaurants, followed by chains that eventually expanded into Los Angeles and other cities. More recently, the health-conscious plate lunch has surfaced, in which brown rice replaces white, salads are offered instead of macaroni and misoyaki butterfish is as common as fried pork cutlets. 
 This summer, I enjoyed the kalua pork with sweet potato salad, and some macaroni salad made with grated onions, carrots and light mayo, at Luke's Place, a restaurant in a plantation-style building in the tiny town of Hawi on the Big Island. ''We are looking to go toward healthier but affordable,'' said Mike Prine, the general manager. 
 Kaka'ako Kitchen, a plate lunch spot in a busy Honolulu shopping center, rounds out brown rice and greens with chicken in honey-lime vinaigrette, calamari with spinach salad or wild salmon with lemon-ginger sauce. ''We try to take it a little more upscale,'' said Russell Siu, the owner. ''We don't want to be like every other drive-in in town.''
 Like, for instance, Rainbow Drive-In in Honolulu, popular among the flip-flop set and a destination on Barack Obama's must-get-to list last summer. For less than $7 one can fill up on the teriyaki beef plate, which some like to top with chili, or the ''mix, all over,'' which is a plate of teriyaki beef, breaded mahi-mahi and fried chicken, smothered in brown gravy ''all over.''
 Indeed it is the standard plate lunch that tends to draw local crowds, for its magical mix of portions (large) and price (cheap). The plate lunch is something that Americans from the mainland ''sort of turn their noses up at,'' Ms. Philpotts said. ''Especially if they are foodies or health conscious. They look at all that cholesterol and white rice, and they just go nuts. But people here grow up eating that.''
 It all seems like odd fare for a man as bookmark-thin as Mr. Obama, who seems to treasure his treadmill. ''I think it is really funny he still eats plate lunch,'' Ms. Philpotts said. ''Because he is so healthy.'' 
 But she strongly suggested -- at least to my ears -- that the plate lunch in part accounts for his strong showing in Hawaii. ''I think it is because when he comes back here he is so cool, he just kind of slips back into local ways.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE THRIFTY AND THE FULL: Lunch at Rainbow Drive-In in Honolulu.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CORY LUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); FERRIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); LABOR FORCE (63%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); PHILIPPINES (92%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



539 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Plan to Redevelop Willets Point Faces Council Votes on Thursday

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
After the bruising fight to extend the city's term limits and his conciliatory phone calls to City Council members after the vote, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wasted no time returning his attention to another battle: rallying support for the redevelopment of Willets Point.
 In recent weeks, negotiations have intensified with business owners in the area, an industrial enclave near Shea Stadium in Queens, in preparation for the Council's final votes on the project on Thursday. If it is approved, the city would be authorized to take privately owned land at the site by eminent domain, which remains a contentious issue among many council members. 
 In interviews, some members have said their support depended on how much land the city would have to acquire through eminent domain.
 ''My colleagues and I understand that one or two people cannot hold out on progress,'' Councilman John C. Liu of Queens said. ''But holdouts, by definition, cannot be the majority of landowners.''
 The mayor has proposed a $3 billion plan to build office buildings, a hotel and convention center, parks, retail stores and 5,500 apartments in the area. The project, which is intended to revitalize a neighborhood that the city has neglected for decades, would replace all of the businesses in Willets Point -- from lucrative companies like Tully Construction, which has held billions of dollars in city contracts over the years, to mom-and-pop operations like Brother Jesus Auto, a repair shop owned by a Mexican immigrant.
 Throughout his administration, Mr. Bloomberg has counted on the Council's support on even the most controversial of his redevelopment proposals, including the expansion of Columbia University and the rezoning of 125th Street in Harlem. But this time, council members are showing some concerns. In addition to the number of times the city has to invoke eminent domain, those concerns include the number of low- and moderate-income housing units to be built, and the fate of the thousands of small-business owners and workers who operate from rented spaces at the site. 
 ''As things stand right now, the city still hasn't given us enough,'' said Councilman Hiram Monserrate, who represents a district that includes Willets Point and has emerged as one of the project's most vocal critics.
 No one seems to believe that Willets Point does not need help, but many are opposed to the way the city has gone about pursuing the plan. The big-business owners are waiting for a fair price for their properties, and several of them have reached deals with the city in recent weeks. Many small-business owners are waiting to learn how the city will help them relocate, while their workers, many of whom are illegal immigrants, are contemplating the harsh reality of unemployment.
 On Friday, the mayor met with Council delegations from each of the five boroughs to present his proposal, focusing on the project's job-generating prospects at a time of severe economic slowdown, according to several people who attended the meetings. 
 The city also enlisted outside help: labor leaders and the former Queens borough president, Claire Shulman, called council members last week, asking for support. Even the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, met with some of the big-business owners a few days ago to help pave the way for agreements.
 The city's Economic Development Corporation reached deals last week to buy land from two of Willets Point's property owners, an Indian food producer and a junkyard owner. On Tuesday, the agency and Feinstein Iron Works, a structural steel manufacturer and one of the enclave's largest businesses, came to an agreement. With that, the city has deals to acquire about one-third of the 48 acres of privately owned land at the 62-acre area.
 The company that owns the largest parcels in Willets Point, Tully Construction and Tully Environmental, is nearing a deal with the city, according to three people familiar with the negotiations, who are not authorized to speak publicly about the project. If the deal goes through before Thursday, several council members said they would be more inclined to support the mayor's development plan. 
 ''The vote will hinge on whether council members are satisfied that the city has minimized the potential for eminent domain and ensured the maximum affordability of housing,'' said Councilman Daniel R. Garodnick of Manhattan, who heads the Council planning subcommittee that will hold the first of three votes on Willets Point on Thursday. (The land use committee and the full Council will hold the other votes.)
 The Council could approve the project; approve it with small modifications, such as a change in zoning classifications; or turn it down, although that appears unlikely. 
 In June, the city entered into a pact with construction and retail workers' groups, which traded their support for guarantees that it would provide union jobs and good wages. Unions have significant influence in the Council, providing votes and campaign contributions to many of its members. One member, who requested anonymity in order to speak more candidly, said his decision on how to vote would be based in part on how it might affect his prospects of winning the unions' endorsements in next year's election.
 One of the project's supporters, Eduardo Giraldo, a vice president at the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in Queens who is running for the Council seat held by Mr. Monserrate, said, ''We have to make sure that there are jobs, that we can attract tourists to this area, that there are no gangs roaming our streets.''
 ''The idea is not to fight against the project,'' he said. ''The idea is to make sure that the community participates in the project.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The city has deals to acquire about a third of the privately owned land in an enclave in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); TERM LIMITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ZONING (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); RETAILERS (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



540 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW TEAM; Pg. 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Austan Goolsbee

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of profiles of potential members of the administration. 
 Name:Austan Goolsbee 
 Being considered for: A spot on the Council of Economic Advisers or another senior-level economics role.
 Would bring to the job: An expertise in some of the long-term economic policy decisions facing the president-elect: tax policy (and how tax rates affect people's behavior), the Internet, the new economy and investment in human capital. A young, rising-star economist at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, Mr. Goolsbee is also known for his centrism and free-trade views, qualities that could endear him to Mr. Obama's conservative critics. (Even George Will already seems to love him.) Mr. Obama might also benefit from Mr. Goolsbee's skills in applying economics to actual human behavior, rather than to more abstract models.
 Is linked to Mr. Obama by: His campaign for the United States Senate in 2004, then his run for the White House. The two men overlapped at the University of Chicago, where Mr. Obama taught at the law school and Mr. Goolsbee teaches at the business school. They did not meet, however, until the 2004 Senate campaign, after Mr. Obama's advisers called on Mr. Goolsbee for advice on economic issues. Mr. Obama's Republican opponent, Alan Keyes, had been advocating some unorthodox tax policies, including exempting descendants of slaves from taxes for two generations; Mr. Goolsbee armed Mr. Obama with economic arguments against such proposals. Mr. Goolsbee then advised Mr. Obama on economic issues during the 2008 presidential campaign.
 In his own words:''Moral exhortation doesn't change people's behavior. Prices do.''Slate, Sept. 27, 2005. 
 ''Make no mistake: Deficits still matter. A balanced budget may be less central to economic growth today than in the 1990s. But deficit reduction now functions as a crucial insurance policy against global financial shocks and over-reliance on foreign lenders, as well as national emergencies such as Hurricane Katrina's devastation of the Gulf Coast. It should not be a goal in and of itself -- pain for pain's sake. Fiscal responsibility should be our goal because it remains an important foundation of economic justice and growth.'' (Progressive Policy Institute policy report, April 30, 2007. )
 Used to work as: An economics columnist for The New York Times and Slate. He is a former host of the show ''History's Business'' on the History Channel. He is currently a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research; a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation; and a member of the Panel of Economic Advisers to the Congressional Budget Office. He has served as a member of the United States Census Advisory Committee; a special consultant for Internet policy for the Department of Justice's Antitrust Division; and a senior economist for the Progressive Policy Institute and the Democratic Leadership Council. 
 Carries as potential baggage: A memorandum from the Canadian consulate in Chicago, which was made public during the presidential campaign, said Mr. Goolsbee had claimed that Mr. Obama's protectionist rhetoric was ''more reflective of political maneuvering than policy.'' Mr. Goolsbee has denied this accounting of the conversation. He temporarily adopted a lower profile after the flap, teaching a full course load in the spring.
 Is otherwise known for: Advocating an automated tax system, in which the I.R.S. sends taxpayers a document informing them how much they owe rather than a blank tax form. He has also criticized supply-side economics, the school with which University of Chicago economists are often associated. His hobbies, like his research interests, are eclectic; he competes in triathlons, and as an undergraduate performed in the student improv troupe and was known as a fierce debater. He taught class on his own wedding day.
 Resume includes: Born Aug. 18, 1969, in Waco, Tex., and raised primarily in California. ... graduate of Milton Academy, Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received his Ph.D. in economics ... joined the faculty at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business in his mid-20s. ... a Sloan Fellow at M.I.T. and later a Fulbright scholar. ... married to Robin Winters Goolsbee ; they have three children. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INSURANCE POLICIES (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); LAWYERS (66%); HISTORY (61%); HURRICANES (60%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008



541 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; GEAR TEST WITH ANDREA ARDEN, DOG EXPERT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: With a Little Help From Dogs' Best Friend

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN DEBENEDETTI

 BODY:
THE economy may be in shambles, but your dog should never be. ''It's essential to keep your dog well groomed, to keep it healthy and happy,'' said Daisy Okas, a spokeswoman for the nonprofit American Kennel Club. The catch is cost. Depending on size and breed, she said, the expense ''could be as low as $25 for a small dog in a rural area, but over $200 for the 'works' -- nails, teeth, ears -- on a large densely coated dog in Manhattan.'' 
 Basic home grooming of pets is a good option for those who want to save money, Ms. Okas said. But it's more than looks: keeping a dog's hair clean, trimmed and brushed reduces risk of infection, she said, and ensures that skin isn't uncomfortably pulled taut by matted fur. Still, people should try not to get carried away, Ms. Okas said. ''A dog is a dog,'' she said. ''They don't need nail polish and perfume, but they do need a decent shampoo and a good brush.''
 To that end, more people now use home grooming products for dogs. To evaluate some of the more recent innovations, Andrea Arden, an author of four books on dogs and a board member of Animal Haven, a shelter and sanctuary, with headquarters in Manhattan, tried them out. Ms. Arden treated five dogs, including Barney (left), a 4-month-old Shih Tzu mix, to a mock home-spa treatment at Animal Haven in SoHo. CHRISTIAN DeBENEDETTI

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HYDROSURGE RAPIDBATH PET BATHING SYSTEM: $69.99, www.rapidbathing.com. This handheld unit, left, which attaches to a tub faucet and combines water, soap and air in streams, made ''the normal process of first getting the dog wet, then lathering them up'' one step, Ms. Arden said, adding that it was ''less messy'' than conventional baths. The dogs ''definitely seemed to enjoy'' the pressure of RapidBath's jet, she said. Her only objection was to the price, but she praised its value compared with a visit to a groomer.' PEDIPAWS: $19.99
www.pedipaws.com. Ms. Arden was ''pleasantly surprised'' by the PediPaws, which uses a battery-powered filing wheel to pare dogs' nails. All of the dogs showed ''some concern'' with the ''strong'' buzzing sound, at first, said Ms. Arden, and three of the five were ''pretty concerned'' about the sensation of having it in contact with their nails. But soon, with one exception, a puppy, the dogs ''settled down.'' She praised how it ''gets the job done quickly,'' but cautioned against being ''overly enthusiastic,'' to avoid paring too far, which is painful.
RUB-A-DUB PET TUB: $29.99, amazon.com. Ms. Arden found this tub, above, ''great for the medium and small dogs,'' as it seemed to make the dogs ''feel more stable'' and therefore ''less likely to move around.'' Trying it both in the tub and on the bathroom floor, Ms. Arden said it was easier to use and empty in the tub. She praised its nonslide base and said the only drawback to the product was that it ''couldn't be used with the large dogs.''
THE FURMINATOR MEDIUM DESHEDDING TOOL: $49.95, www.furminator.com. With the exception of one of the dogs, Ms. Arden said this handheld tool ''worked perfectly.'' She said the dogs were especially content when the tool -- essentially ''a very fine-toothed rake which removes a lot of hair'' -- was used on their backs. ''You have to be a little careful not to press too hard,'' she said, adding not to use it on small dogs' legs.
RINSE ACE PET SHOWER DELUXE: $29.95
 www.rinseace.com. ''This is essentially a less expensive version of the type of hose and faucet used in many grooming shops,'' Ms. Arden said. Using an attachment for a shower head, the Ace gave ''good'' water pressure through a jet that can be ''easily directed'' while rinsing. She said it could also be ''useful when bathing kids'' or cleaning a shower. She said to ''be careful when attaching'' to avoid stripping the threads.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); PETS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (70%); WRITERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN KENNEL CLUB (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



542 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: With Grim Economy as Backdrop, Surprises, Good and Bad, at Christie's Auction

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL; Reprinted from yesterday's late edition.

 BODY:
In a bumpy sale of contemporary art at Christie's on Wednesday, some paintings, drawings and sculptures were eagerly sought, but there were also big disappointments as the art market struggled to adjust to today's financial climate. 
 What was expected to be the star -- a 1964 self-portrait by Francis Bacon that was estimated at $40 million -- went unsold without so much as a bid. But other works brought prices that surprised even Christie's executives. 
 ''In the beginning we thought we were witnessing a gravity-defying auction,'' Edward Dolman, Christie's chief executive, said after the sale. ''But it was disappointing not to sell the Bacon. There were some good prices, but it's inconsistent.'' 
 The evening, dominated by American buyers, brought $113.6 million, well below its low estimate of $227 million. Of the 75 works on the block, nearly one-third failed to sell. 
 The evening began with a bang. ''Study for Great American Nude #20,'' a pastel by Tom Wesselmann from 1961, had many interested bidders. This work on paper from a celebrated Pop series was estimated at $600,000 to $800,000, and Jose Mugrabi, a New York dealer, snapped it up for $820,000, or $986,500 with Christie's fees. 
 Some works that were considered overpriced sold -- but for what buyers wanted to pay, not what the house had envisioned. 
 The best of Basquiat roused only two bidders. Lars Ulrich, a songwriter and drummer for the band Metallica, was selling ''Untitled (Boxer),'' a 1982 painting that was a highlight of a retrospective of the artist's work at the Brooklyn Museum in 2005. Depicting a victorious boxer against a richly painted background filled with the artist's signature graffiti scrawl, it was estimated at $12 million to $16 million, and a buyer on the telephone bought it for $12 million, or $13.5 million including commission. 
 (Final prices include the commission to Christie's: 25 percent of the first $50,000, 20 percent of the next $50,000 to $1 million, and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
 Museum exhibitions often enhance the value of an artist's work, but on Wednesday night that was not necessarily the case. On the heels of Takashi Murakami retrospectives this year at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles and at the Brooklyn Museum, some collectors tried to cash in on the artist's works. One was Adam Lindemann, a New York collector. He was selling ''Dob in the Strange Forest (Red Dob,)'' a 1999 toylike installation featuring Mr. Murakami's Mickey Mouse-like character, Mr. Dob. Philippe Segalot, a Manhattan dealer, had the winning bid, paying $3 million ($3.4 million with fees), well below its low estimate of $5 million 
 The sale featured two paintings by Gerhard Richter. One brought a strong price, the other nary a bid. A rich, dense abstract 1989 canvas dripping with paint was estimated at $10 million and was sought by three contenders. An unidentified buyer on the telephone won, paying $14.8 million, including fees. But an earlier work, ''Ozu (597),'' from 1986, with swirls and smears of green, red and yellow, was estimated at $10 million to $15 million, and it went unsold. 
 The appetite for paintings by Richard Prince has been voracious for the last few years: At Sotheby's in London over the summer, one of his nurse paintings fetched $8.4 million, a record for the artist at auction. 
 On Wednesday night ''Lake Resort Nurse,'' from 2003, was being sold by Jennifer Stockman, president of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation. Estimated at $5 million to $7 million, it was bought by Giancarlo Giametti, partner of the fashion designer Valentino, for just $2.9 million, or $3.3 million including fees. The painting, along with two other works owned by Ms. Stockman, had been guaranteed by Christie's -- meaning an undisclosed sum was promised the seller regardless of the outcome of the sale -- and like several works on Wednesday night, the auction house had an expensive loss.
 The appetite for Warhol has been poor all week. On Wednesday one of his Mao paintings, from 1973, was being sold by Aaron Fleischman, a Washington lawyer. Christie's had given Mr. Fleishman a guarantee that was believed to be around $5 million, and put the estimate at $4.5 million to $6.5 million. Again, it failed to sell. Another failed work was ''Shadow,'' from a 1978 series, which was priced at $5 million to $7 million. One bargain hunter raised a paddle, but this work, too, failed to sell. 
 The sale had its high points. When ''Pharmacy'' (1943), a Joseph Cornell box that once belonged to Marcel Duchamp's wife, Alexina (Teeny), came up for sale, the room perked up. Four bidders wanted to take it home, and it made $3.7 million (with fees), well above its high $2 million estimate. It was a record price for the artist at auction.
 Another record was set when Mr. Segalot bought ''No. 2'' a shimmering 1959 canvas of white and gold tones by Yayoi Kusama, for $5.7 million, way above its $3.5 million high estimate.
 Kathy Fuld, a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, and her husband, Richard S. Fuld Jr., a former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, were selling 16 postwar works on paper -- Christie's had given them a $20 million guarantee -- and the results were mixed. Among the best was Gorky's ''Study for Agony I,'' executed in 1946-47. Mrs. Fuld bought it at Christie's in 1996 for $370,000. On Wednesday it was estimated at $2.2 million to $2.8 million. Matthew Marks, a Manhattan dealer, bought it for $2.2 million with fees. 
 After the sale, dealers and collectors milled about trying to make sense of the results. ''The auction house may not have done well,'' said Allan Schwartzman, an art adviser, ''but some collectors did.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Only two people bid for ''Untitled (Boxer),'' a 1982 Basquiat painting that sold for $13.5 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



543 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Small Business; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: The Cash-Strapped Turn to Barter

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
CAUGHT in the credit vise of 2008 that is threatening their livelihoods, small-business owners are turning in droves to an age-old source of commerce: the exchange of goods and services, or barter, to hold on to their precious cash. 
 New money is not flowing to Main Street. Since October 2007, there has been a decline of almost 30 percent in loans approved for small businesses, the Small Business Administration reported.
 Companies short on cash are often forced to let workers go, and in October alone companies with 50 or fewer workers eliminated 25,000 jobs, according to the ADP Small Business Report. 
 ''During recent history, we have seen these businesses adding jobs while larger-size businesses shed them,'' said Joel Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, which prepares the report. This is the first decline in small-business employment reported by ADP since November 2002, he said, and the largest percentage decline since the economy was emerging from recession in early 2002. 
 In response, barter exchanges are working hard to sign up participants. The exchanges range from publicly traded entities like International Monetary Systems and the Itex Corporation to smaller operations like U-Exchange.com. Many are reporting double-digit increases in membership, as well as a bump in transactions.
 At Itex, for example, registrations jumped 36 percent in October, said Steven White, the chairman and chief executive. The exchange, founded in 1982, has more than 24,000 member businesses.
 Bartering has grown with the times and is now much more than ''I'll take yours, if you take mine.'' Often, these days, multiple parties meet through online exchanges and amass credit that can be used for future transactions (more like ''you take mine and I'll take someone else's later.'') Drawing on the reach of the Internet, many exchanges include participants from around the world. 
 What makes barter so appealing during an economic crisis? Barter specialists point to three attributes. First, a member business can find new customers and use excess capacity. Second, a satisfied barter partner often refers cash-paying customers to the small business. And third, the participants can conserve hard-to-come-by cash.
 Ken and Angela Lineberger, owners of the Wine Tailor winery and retail store in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., said sales would be flat this year had they not been active in the Itex exchange. Thanks to bartering, overall sales are up 8 percent, Mr. Lineberger said. 
 These are customers who wouldn't normally seek out their wine, Mr. Lineberger said. ''We just had a couple drive over 100 miles to buy six cases of our wine because they're Itex members,'' he said.
 Itex customers pay the full retail price, he added; they are not discount buyers. The Linebergers use Itex dollars they accumulate in sales to pay for pest control, electrical work, accounting and legal services. ''It's nice to move those over to Itex,'' he said, because it frees cash. They also use it for vacations and other personal transactions.
 For tax purposes, barter is treated like ordinary sales, and its value must be reported. The barter exchanges record all transactions and report them to the Internal Revenue Service. Of course, informal bartering among small companies and independent contractors has gone on for decades, and some report the revenue and pay taxes, while others prefer to operate within the underground economy. 
 Bartering is estimated to generate more than $3 billion through exchanges in the United States, said Robert B. Meyer, who edits BarterNews.com, a trade publication. That does not include corporations that barter directly, he said. Official tallies are hard to come by, he said, because there are more than 250 exchanges and the systems are decentralized.
 Hundreds of exchanges are available online, some national and some regional. Some charge membership fees and annual fees, while others do not. Often, there are transaction fees of up to 6 percent. 
 Small-business owners should do the normal due diligence when looking for an exchange, said David Wallach, president of the International Reciprocal Trade Association's global board. For references, check with people or businesses in your area that use an exchange, and before entering into a transaction, vet your potential partner with the Better Business Bureau. The association, a nonprofit group that promotes barter and trade, has a test for businesses, ''Is Barter for You?,'' on its Web site (irta.com).
 Chris Keogh, who runs his own construction firm, Jade Stone Construction, in Pearl River, N.Y., just completed his first barter transaction through International Monetary Systems (imsbarter.com). 
 ''The construction business has always been feast or famine,'' said Mr. Keogh, 47, a native of Dublin who has been in the New York region for 22 years. During a recent bad stretch, Mr. Keogh was scrambling to drum up new customers through advertising, Craigslist and even roadside signs. I.M.S. Barter saw the Craigslist post and contacted him. After he researched the company, Mr. Keogh said, he decided to give it a try, agreeing to paint a house for $5,000 -- $1,000 in cash and $4,000 in I.M.S. trade dollars.
 Mr. Dalsimer subsequently referred Mr. Keogh to two new customers. One of them will provide Mr. Keogh's next project, painting a two-bedroom apartment in Somers, N.Y., in another part-cash, part-barter arrangement. 
 ''You have to be careful how much you trade,'' he said, because you don't want your business to become dominated by bartering. And each side of a transaction carries that 6 percent fee, cutting into profit. Experts recommend that a business use barter for no more than 5 to 15 percent of sales to avoid crowding out cash business.
 Many barter exchanges offer credit to members who have been turned away by lenders in the real economy; in its recent credit-line review in October, International Monetary Systems issued $2.7 million in trade credit to its network of 18,000 businesses, adding to an existing $55 million in established credit lines, said Krista Vardabash, its director of marketing. 
 ''We base our credit on the products and services that the member businesses have to offer, not on their cash accounts or how they look on paper,'' said Donald Mardak, the chief executive. 
 To be sure, bartering is not mainstream, said John C. Moore, a founder of U-Exchange.com. Still, traffic at the site, which is run by Mr. Moore and his co-founder, Barb Di Renzo, has spiked 70 percent this fall, he said, with an influx of participants from Spain, South Africa, Britain and the United States. 
 One new member at U-Exchange is R House Construction, owned by Rich Rowley of Tacoma, Wash. In a recent post on U-Exchange, he offered new home construction, remodeling, home repairs, real estate work orders, home maintenance and commercial improvements. In exchange, Mr. Rowley is looking for vacations, real estate, homes, land, dining, medical care, dental care, a boat, a motor home, groceries, gas, entertainment, a ski pass and tickets to Mariners baseball games or Seahawks football games. 
 So far he has had no takers, but he said he remained optimistic. ''We have to learn to adapt to the changing landscape,'' Mr. Rowley said. ''Part of that is bartering. The exciting thing is this is another part of the puzzle that gets us to where we're going.''
 His wife, Kathy Robinson, came up with the idea of bartering as their business dropped off, said Mr. Rowley, who usually builds two houses a year and sells them. This year, he sold only one house; the other remains empty.
 Even if the U-Exchange post does not work out, Mr. Rowley said, he has arranged privatelyto do renovation work on a vacation home in Ocean Shores, west of Seattle, while he and his wife stay in another beach home. ''We really like to travel,'' he said. ''We don't want to be denied that just because the economy is going south.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHO NEEDS DOLLARS? Ken Lineberger of the Wine Tailor increased his sales using a bartering service. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JILL CONNELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
 THIS FOR THAT: Chris Keogh of New York agreed to paint a house for $5,000 -- $1,000 in cash and $4,000 as a credit in a bartering system. Ken Lineberger of the Wine Tailor winery, in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., found a client online who drove 100 miles to buy six cases of wine. (JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); RETAIL SALES (64%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (61%); WINERIES (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (83%); ITEX CORP (68%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (83%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



544 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Willets Point Project Foes Reach Deal With the City

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Two of the leading opponents of the Willets Point redevelopment project in Queens came out in favor of the plan on Wednesday, after they reached a critical deal with the city over the number of homes for low-income families that will be built at the site.
 The agreement calls for more than 800 homes for families earning less than $38,400 a year and essentially paves the way for the project's approval by the City Council on Thursday. The agreement is a major political victory for one of the opponents, Councilman Hiram Monserrate, and for the Bloomberg administration, which spent considerable time and money in recent weeks to arrange support for the plan. 
 ''This is a project for the people,'' said Councilman Monserrate, who represents a district that includes Willets Point, a 62-acre expanse of auto body shops, junkyards and manufacturers on unpaved roads near Shea Stadium. ''Everybody wins,'' he said.
 The deal requires that 35 percent of the project's 5,500 housing units be set aside for families who make less than $99,840 a year, or 130 percent of the city's median income of $76,800. The original plan reserved just 20 percent of the units for families of those income levels. 
 The agreement was announced on Wednesday at a news conference at City Hall that brought together what days ago would have been an improbable cast of allies. 
 On hand were Mr. Monserrate and Bertha Lewis, chief organizer of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or Acorn, which Mr. Monserrate had enlisted in opposing the project's housing levels and the city's plan to take over privately owned property by eminent domain. At their side were Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the city's deputy mayor for economic development, Robert C. Lieber, who worked late into the night on Tuesday to arrange the deal.
 ''The truth of the matter is, we have worked well together over the years,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''We don't always agree on everything, but people always want to paint these battles as personal battles, or if you're not together on one thing, it means you can't work together on others. This is as good an example as you could ever find.''
 The mood was festive, with thank-yous and congratulations on both sides. The Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, declared her ''enthusiastic support'' for the project, proclaiming it ''a major economic engine for the city just at a time when we need it most.'' 
 Councilwoman Melinda R. Katz, who heads the Council's Land Use Committee, which will hold one of three votes on Willets Point on Thursday, called it ''a great project.''
 ''We're creating jobs,'' Ms. Katz said, ''and we're creating housing for folks who can least afford to live here.'' 
 The city has agreements to acquire about 31 percent of the 48 acres of privately owned land at Willets Point and is close to sealing another deal, with Tully Construction and Tully Environmental, which owns the largest parcel at the site. Negotiations with landowners will continue after Thursday's votes, the mayor said. 
 The proposed project includes a half-million square feet of office space, eight acres of parks, stores and a hotel and conference center. It is estimated to cost $3 billion and expected to be built over about 10 years, generating about 18,000 construction jobs and 5,000 permanent jobs, city officials said.
 The future developer will have to abide by housing guidelines that will require the construction of 820 homes for families who make $38,400 a year or less, which is more housing for low-income families than was required in any of the city's other recent redevelopment projects, including Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn and Hudson Yards, on the west side of Midtown. 
 The rest of the homes will be distributed as follows: about 330 for families earning $38,400 to $46,080; 770 for families earning $46,080 to $99,840; and the remaining 3,500 or so priced at market value.
 ''It actually makes homes affordable for the families that live in the area,'' said Hannah Weinstock, an organizer with Queens for Affordable Housing, a coalition of community groups that pressured Mr. Monserrate and other legislators to push for a greater portion of homes for low- and moderate-income families. 
 The city has established job training programs that will be open to all of the approximately 1,700 people who currently work in the 260 or so businesses at Willets Point, including many illegal immigrants.
 ''We're agnostic in terms of the immigration status of the people who are working there,'' Mr. Lieber said. ''We want to make sure that people have the jobs and have the opportunity and have the training so that we can keep them in New York City and we can give them an opportunity to grow their families and make a decent wage and benefits for them and their families.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); EMINENT DOMAIN (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); JOB CREATION (62%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



545 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AID WORKER SLAIN IN PAKISTAN

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Ismail Khan contributed reporting from Peshawar, Pakistan.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- For the six months he helped execute the ''hearts and minds'' outreach of the United States on one of the most dangerous front lines of the American battle against militants, Stephen D. Vance had to balance a strategic mission with nearly daily concerns about his personal safety.
On Wednesday, as he was arriving at his office in a residential area of turbulent Peshawar, he was shot and killed by gunmen, becoming the most prominent casualty of an increasingly troubled effort to use economic aid to undercut the hold of Al Qaeda and the Taliban on Pakistan's tribal areas.
The assassination of Mr. Vance, 52, highlighted the problems inherent in the effort to bring development to one of the most underdeveloped and volatile regions of the world. It also raised new doubts about American efforts to undermine a major adversary in a stronghold that has proved largely impervious to political and military pressure. 
The United States Agency for International Development, or Usaid, is spending $750 million to support economic development in the tribal areas of Pakistan. But critics of the program in Congress, which is debating whether to extend more aid to Pakistan, have already questioned how the money could be effective, or even monitored, if Americans could not visit the areas where the projects were under way.
''He was worried about his security, he was always talking security with me,'' said Khalid Aziz, a Pakistani development expert who worked with Mr. Vance.
Mr. Vance, a contractor hired by the development agency, was forbidden for safety reasons to travel to the tribal region that was the focus of his efforts, colleagues said. He was confined to Peshawar, where he lived with his wife and five children, ages 1 to 13. But he traveled in a car not protected by armor, unlike diplomats working at the United States Consulate in Peshawar, who are required to be driven in bulletproof vehicles.
Lynne Tracy, the top American diplomat in Peshawar, narrowly escaped a similar attack in August as she was being driven in an armored vehicle in the same neighborhood, University Town.
Though colleagues described Mr. Vance as committed to bringing American aid to trouble spots, they said he felt frustrated that he could not go out and meet people, and instead had to glean his knowledge by inviting people to his office. ''He was committed but questioned the wisdom of doing it here,'' said a colleague who knew Mr. Vance well but who did not want to be identified for fear of endangering his job. ''He was aware of the danger. We talked about it often.''
Mr. Vance's death comes as a vigorous debate is under way in Washington over whether more American military effort or more American development assistance -- or more of both -- is necessary to combat the growing power of the Taliban and Al Qaeda in the tribal belt. Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is the author of legislation that calls for $15 billion in civilian assistance over the next decade for Pakistan, a significant increase over the level of American civilian aid under the Bush administration.
Despite the questions about the effectiveness of the aid to the tribal region, there was a feeling in Washington that such assistance had to be tried, said Craig Cohen, the author of a study on United States and Pakistan relations at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''There is a sentiment that we need to be out there, but we know its danger,'' he said. ''There's a belief we want to do something more than military. We need an aid presence.''
In Mr. Vance's case, that presence was quiet, yet still conspicuous. To blend in, he at times wore a shalwar kameez, the long tunic and baggy pants that Pakistani men commonly wear.
But there was barely rudimentary security at his office, associates said. It appeared his assailants were waiting for him, an American colleague said.
.
The killing of such an experienced aid worker stunned American and Pakistani officials in Peshawar but did not surprise some of them. Security had collapsed to such an extent in the city, and anti-American sentiment had become so high, American officials and aid workers were often kept in ''lockdown'' by the American Consulate, meaning they had to work at home or get permission to move from home to office.
''Ever since the Taliban started targeted assassinations against politicians a few months ago, it was almost inevitable that they would target U.S. aid efforts,'' said Joshua White, a research fellow at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, and a specialist in Pakistan.
Among the several dozen Americans who came to Peshawar this year to work on the Usaid projects -- some of them relatively young and inexperienced, others warhorses of the Vietnam era -- Mr. Vance appears to have been a standout. ''He was very pleasant, a good conversationalist with a refined demeanor -- he certainly wasn't an ugly American,'' said Robert La Porte, a development expert, who had been hired for a job on the project in Peshawar.
Mr. Vance, who had a degree from the University of California, Santa Cruz, and a degree in Slavic and Eastern European history from the University of Paris, worked in what is known in the international aid trade as some of the toughest hellholes.
He was a project manager for Usaid in Zaire from 1986 to 1991. He went to East Timor after it was ravaged by the Indonesian military in 1999. But he found his metier in Mongolia, where from 1999 to 2002 he established microfinancial services for the rural poor under the auspices of the nongovernmental organization Mercy Corps. As well, he helped herders in the Gobi Desert predict disasters.
''He was a visionary,'' said Joy Portella, the communications director of Mercy Corps.
In Mongolia, he met a local woman whom he married. Some of his children were from a previous marriage of Mr. Vance's, associates said. Perhaps because of his unusual background, his assignment here centered on the most hazardous and remote area of the tribal region: North and South Waziristan, the base of the most hard-core elements of the Taliban and Al Qaeda.
Given the constraints of not being able to travel much beyond his house and his office, a 15-minute ride away, how much Mr. Vance had managed to accomplish since arriving was not clear.
His immediate employer was Cooperative Housing Foundation in Silver Spring, Md., a firm hired to put in place a $140 million part of the overall $750 million project.
For Mr. Aziz, the extraordinary thing about Mr. Vance was his desire to do things the Pakistani way. So for his job creation projects, Mr. Aziz said, he wanted to use existing Pakistani institutions rather than create a parallel American universe as was often the case with American aid workers. ''This shouldn't have happened, he was a good chap, he was a humanist, he could get on with anyone,'' Mr. Aziz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Vance (A1)
 An ambulance carried the body of Stephen D. Vance on Wednesday in Peshawar, Pakistan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALIBAN (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AL-QAEDA (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); AL-QAEDA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



546 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Small Business; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Need a Loan? Look Down the Street

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
MANY community bankers have money to lend to small businesses now -- but they are being more demanding than they were a year ago.
 ''They don't have to ratchet back as much as the larger banks, because they don't have the huge write-downs,'' said Paul Merski, the chief economist of the Independent Community Bankers of America. But he said the uncertain economic climate is prompting local bankers to be more cautious, either by writing smaller loans or by requiring more collateral.
 That has been happening across the country, at financial institutions large and small, according to the most recent Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey, which the Federal Reserve conducted in early October.
 Some 75 percent of domestic banks reported tightening their lending standards for small businesses -- defined by the Federal Reserve as companies with less than $50 million a year in sales -- since the prior quarterly survey in July. And 60 percent of the bankers said they were granting smaller credit lines to small businesses. 
 ''This is a time when it really helps small-business owners to have a relationship with a local bank,'' Mr. Merski said, ''so they can go in there and sit across from a live human being and talk through the conditions and terms of their loan.''
 Robert C. Seiwert, the director of the American Bankers Association's Center for Commercial Lending and Business Banking, said that some local bankers were ''proactively going after customers on their wish lists who are at banks that are having some problems.''
 Mr. Seiwert advises small-business owners to talk to their current bankers about what kind of money would be available to them, and on what terms. ''Don't wait until you need the money,'' he said. ''And if you don't like what you hear, shop around.''
 Community bankers in various parts of the country were asked to provide snapshots of the small-business environment and financing options in their regions: 
 The Southeast
 Florida was among a handful of markets where home prices rose the most during the real estate boom. Now prices are collapsing across the state, said James H. McKillop III, the president and chief executive of the Independent Bankers' Bank of Florida in Lake Mary, with $450 million in assets. 
 ''The construction industry benefited greatly when housing prices were rising. And that meant that you weren't just employing the plumbers and the electricians, but all of the people who served them,'' Mr. McKillop said. ''Now, there's a negative multiplier effect. So a loan to a dry cleaning establishment, or a mom-and-pop grocery store, becomes more problematic.''
 Mr. McKillop, who is a board member of the Atlanta Federal Reserve, says he sees a similar pattern in Atlanta and its suburbs. Even parts of the Southeast where home prices did not skyrocket during the boom -- like Tennessee, Mississippi and Alabama -- were being hit with a slowdown in home construction and automobile sales, he said.
 So six months ago, Mr. McKillop's bank began tightening its lending standards for many typical small-business owners like hairdressers and car dealers. In some cases, the bank asked for more collateral to secure some existing credit lines if the customers' credit had worsened. Some small-business owners needed to put up more collateral because they had used their home equity to secure credit lines, and now their homes were ''under water,'' meaning borrowers owed more on them than they were worth.
 The West
 The booming oil and gas industry along the Western Slope has cushioned Colorado somewhat from the nationwide economic slump. But if oil and gas prices keep falling, that could hurt the local oil field service companies and their suppliers, said John Ikard, the president and chief executive of FirstBank, a private bank holding company in Lakewood, Colo., a suburb of Denver.
 FirstBank, which has $9.3 billion in assets, owns 26 separately chartered banks in Colorado, Arizona and California. It does much of its lending in Denver, where until recently Mr. Ikard was the chairman of the city's chamber of commerce. He said that Denver was in better economic shape than some Western cities where home prices had declined more, like Phoenix and Las Vegas. But even in Denver, Mr. Ikard said, restaurant bookings appear to have fallen off. ''You used to have to make a reservation to get into one of the better restaurants,'' he said. ''Now you can just walk right in.''
 Mr. Ikard said he was more concerned about Vail, Colo., where he said there had been a big decline in vacation home construction. In addition, advance bookings there are so bleak that he has heard this might be the ski resort's worst winter season in 20 years.
 Mr. Ikard said that FirstBank had plenty of money to lend and that he saw this as an opportunity to cherry-pick the best small-business customers away from other banks. But he said that his loan officers could also be more demanding of applicants today than a year or two ago, partly because there is less competition from other lenders.
 The Midwest
 Detroit may be the epicenter of the American automobile industry, but its fault lines spread into Michigan and western Ohio, where many small businesses supply parts and services to Detroit's Big Three automakers. Art Johnson, a banker in Grand Rapids, Mich., said he would be hard-pressed to think of a community in his state that was not touched by the troubled auto industry.
 Mr. Johnson is the chairman and chief executive of the United Bank of Michigan, a private bank with $420 million in assets. It has 12 branches in the western part of the state, where several large furniture makers have their headquarters, including Herman Miller, Steelcase and Hayworth. ''They have a lot of excess inventory now, although it's far less dramatic than the auto industry,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 The one bright spot in the Midwestern economy has been agriculture. But commodity prices have been falling recently. Mr. Johnson said that would hurt not only the farmers, but also the small businesses that build grain elevators or sell farm tools, seed and fertilizer.
 Mr. Johnson said that small-business owners had started coming into his bank seeking a new lender because their old bank had turned them away. ''If it's a creditworthy customer, we are going to put an offer on the table,'' Mr. Johnson said. 
 The Northeast
 Small-business owners are also walking into Northeast Bank, based in Lewiston, Me. ''In some cases, we are taking back customers that we used to have, but they left us for a big regional bank because maybe the rate was a little better,'' said James D. Delamater, the president and chief executive of Northeast Bancorp, a publicly traded bank with $600 million in assets and 11 branches in Maine. ''But now the customers are coming back to us and saying, my bank will no longer lend to me.''
 Tourism is the heart of Maine's economy, so many of the local small businesses are hotels, restaurants and recreational outfits. ''The hotels used to get bookings three years in advance,'' Mr. Delamater said. ''But everything is last-minute now. I think people are waiting to book because they aren't sure they can still afford a vacation. And they're obviously looking for deals.''
 But Northeast Bancorp has a bigger sandbox in which to play because it participates in small-business loans originated by lenders across the country. In some cases, the bank will keep the loans on its books, while in others it collects a brokerage fee for selling them.
 Mr. Delamater said that a year ago the bank had about 40 of these relationships with other lenders, but today it is closer to half that number. He said that some of the commercial loan originators the bank had worked with had either gone out of business or were making fewer loans. ''Now most of our loan participations are with other community banks like us,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEW STANDARDS: John Ikard of FirstBank said his loan officers were asking more of applicants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOME PRICES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (50%)

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (72%); BANK OF FLORIDA CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



547 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Small Business; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Keeping It All In the Google Family

BYLINE: By DAN FOST

 BODY:
AS befits a company whose name is a play on words, Google (named for the mathematical term ''googol'') has come up with playful names for its workers. Employees are known as Googlers, new employees are Nooglers and gay employees are Gayglers. Now that the company has been around for a decade and employs upward of 20,000 people, another group has earned its own name: former Googlers are known as Xooglers. 
 Many of the Xooglers (the name is a contraction of ex-Googlers but is pronounced ''zooglers'') are young, entrepreneurial and, thanks to Google's soaring success, wealthy enough to start their own second acts. Some are starting companies in Silicon Valley and beyond, and others are helping to finance those ventures. 
 With investment money scarcer because of the financial crisis, many Xoogler entrepreneurs have tapped into a network of affluent and technically skilled investors -- their former co-workers, some of whom still work at Google. 
 ''Angel investing is slowing down a great deal,'' said Adeo Ressi, the founder of TheFunded.com, a Web site on which entrepreneurs rate Silicon Valley's venture capitalists and angel investors. ''For many, an investment by a former colleague may be the only shot they have.''
 Steve Vassallo, a principal at Foundation Capital, a venture investment firm, said: ''My friends call it 'the Google money tree.' You get some half-baked idea, you talk to five people at Google, and each of them gives you $50,000.''
 Xooglers believe not only in their ideas, but also in the network they have cultivated, as well as the Google culture, which informs their new ventures. 
 ''Google was just a massive explosion and sucked in all this talent,'' said Avichal Garg, a former product manager at Google who is now co-founder of PrepMe.com, a start-up aiming to take on the test preparation industry. 
 ''All of these people are leaving who are relatively young and ended up with fair bit of money,'' he said. ''They didn't walk away with $20 million, but they walked away with $2 million. And now the cost of running a new company is so low that essentially Google financed their start-up.''
 Mr. Garg raised a six-figure sum from former Google colleagues for his business. He is now part of a network of Xooglers trying to promote tighter links among the alumni community. The group meets quarterly, and while it has attracted only about two dozen people thus far, each meeting brings new participants and draws them from farther away. Aydin Senkut, a former senior manager at Google who now runs his own angel investment firm, Felicis Ventures, said Xooglers from New York and overseas came to Silicon Valley for a gathering on Nov. 11.
 Google's effort to build an entrepreneurial culture almost by definition anticipates an early exit by many workers. 
 ''I look at the people coming into the company, and many of them are very entrepreneurial,'' said Alan Eustace, Google's senior vice president for engineering and research. ''I believe if you come in and have that entrepreneurial track record, you will get a chance to advance that. You'll have an edge, and you'll learn an awful lot at Google.''
 Greg Gianforte, chief executive of the software maker RightNow Technologies, said many people wanted to start their own businesses, but business schools did a poor job of preparing them. ''Places like Google,'' he said, ''are really the best learning ground for the skills you need to do it.''
 Xooglers cite many lessons learned at Google. ''Never take the status quo,'' Mr. Senkut said. ''And fact-based decision-making -- always rely on data. Never make an emotional decision.''
 Google imparted ''an emphasis on thinking big,'' added Elad Gil, who was a product manager at Google and now has a start-up, MixerLabs. ''The ambition of the company got rubbed into the employees as well.'' 
 Employees recalled product strategy meetings in which the Google founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, aggressively challenged employee proposals. Though grueling, the confrontations were never personal, they said, and always focused on the merits of the ideas. 
 ''As a start-up, you bring that same analytical approach: How do I get users? What decisions do I make?'' Mr. Gil said. ''I think a lot of Xooglers take that with them when they start their own companies.''
 He says he is also trying to uphold the same high standards in hiring that he saw at Google. ''It takes longer to find the right people, but when you find them, they're really exceptional,'' Mr. Gil said. 
 Many Xooglers said the company also helped its employees develop self-confidence. ''I find the people at Google very inspiring,'' said Anna Patterson, who left Google with a colleague, Russell Power, to join Cuil, a new search engine started by her husband, Tom Costello. ''They teach you to believe in yourself and to follow through with your ideas.''
 Brian Singerman, a former engineer at iGoogle and now a partner at Founders Fund, a venture capital firm, cited another lesson. 
 ''The thing that Google made crystal clear was release early and release often,'' he said. ''Iterate, iterate, iterate. The Web allows you to do that quickly, and Google was masterful at that.''
 Bret Taylor, chief executive of FriendFeed, a start-up that lets people track what their friends are doing across various social networks, said his time as a product manager at Google had taught him the importance of speed and stability. 
 Each of Google's products ''runs faster, returns results and works the way you expect it to work,'' he said. If a piece of software was not working right, the developer kept at it until the flaws were worked out or the project was dropped.
 ''That lesson came to us very early on at Google,'' said Mr. Taylor, who co-created Google Maps. ''If page views were slow, that was the only thing you were allowed to work on. It's something that a lot of entrepreneurs don't value.''
 In one of Mr. Taylor's first meetings at Google, in 2003, he said that Mr. Page had told him, ''It's O.K. if you fail, I just want you to fail quickly.''
 On a big-picture level, Mr. Eustace, vice president of Google, said the company promoted ''a missionary view'' of the world. ''You really do want to change the world on some dimension,'' he said. ''It's not just about money, it's about doing something you think is important. The people that leave and the people that stay share that.''
 Google does not reveal its rate of attrition, but the company says it tries to keep its employees. It still offers most engineers the fabled ''20 percent time'' -- the chance to spend one day a week working on projects that are important to them. Often, the company hires people without having a specific task for them, figuring they will come up with something worthwhile. 
 But ''no matter how hard they try to promote an entrepreneurial culture, some things just can't happen at a big company, and people get frustrated and move on,'' said Alex Gould, an instructor at Stanford University and an entrepreneur and former venture capitalist. 
 It is a common refrain, and often the Xooglers' only criticism. Dominic Preuss joined Google in March 2004 in New York, when the company employed 1,400 people, but by the time he left in November 2007, to start FunCoop, an online distribution network for casual games (financed mostly by Xooglers), that was no longer the case. 
 ''It was no longer a small, nimble company where everyone was trying to change the world,'' Mr. Preuss said. ''Google is the most nimble, most malleable 20,000-person company out there, but it still is a 20,000-person company. A lot of the bureaucracy and politics that are inherent in a big company started to kick in.''
 Successful companies have long spawned spinoffs and start-ups. Former Microsoft employees have started a number of ''Baby Bills,'' nicknamed for Bill Gates, in and around Seattle. But according to Tony Audino, a former Microsoft executive who is chief executive of Conenza, which builds and manages online communities for big companies, ''it didn't happen until 15 to 20 years later,'' after the company was well-established and had built up a solid managerial core. 
 Google is rewriting the rules and accelerating the pace. Only time will tell if the Xooglers' start-ups will achieve the success of the most notable Silicon Valley alumni network, PayPal. After eBay acquired PayPal, founders and employees went on to start LinkedIn, YouTube, Slide, Yelp and Founders Fund. 
 Mr. Singerman, the former iGoogle engineer, is a partner at Founders Fund, which is headed by Peter Thiel, a PayPal founder. Mr. Singerman says he thinks that the Google network will have the same success as PayPal's, because of the number of ''smart, driven people dedicated to making their company work, no matter what.''
 FriendFeed is perhaps the best example of the network in action. Bret Taylor left Google with his colleague Jim Norris, and they became entrepreneurs-in-residence at Benchmark Capital, a venture capital firm. While seeking financing for FriendFeed, they pitched their idea to Paul Buchheit and Sanjeev Singh, two Xooglers-turned-angel investors, who had worked on Gmail. They were so impressed that they invested in and joined the company. FriendFeed's first $5 million came mostly from Mr. Buchheit and Mr. Singh. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUCCESS: Avichal Garg, a former Google employee, got backing from ex-Googlers to become a founder of PrepMe.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (57%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



548 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Is Bankruptcy So Bad?

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Momentum is building in Washington for a rescue package for the auto industry to head off a possible bankruptcy filing by General Motors, which is rapidly running low on cash.
But not everyone agrees that a Chapter 11 filing by G.M. would be the disaster that many fear. Some experts note that while bankruptcy would be painful, it may be preferable to a government bailout that may only delay, at considerable cost, the wrenching but necessary steps G.M. needs to take to become a stronger, leaner company.
Although G.M.'s labor contracts would be at risk of termination in a bankruptcy, setting up a potential confrontation with its unions, the company says its pension obligations are largely financed for its 479,000 retirees and their spouses. 
Shareholders have already lost much of the equity that would disappear in a bankruptcy case. Shares of G.M. rose 16 cents Wednesday, to $3.08, but they have fallen 90.5 percent over the last 12 months, amid sharply lower auto sales and fears about G.M.'s future.
And as companies in industries like airlines, steel and retailing have shown, bankruptcy can offer a fresh start with a more competitive cost structure to preserve a future for the workers who remain.
''Just let market forces play out,'' said Matthew J. Slaughter, associate dean at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. ''And if G.M. or one of the other companies files for bankruptcy, support the workers and the communities that would affected by a bankruptcy filing.''
William Ackman, a prominent activist investor who runs Pershing Square Capital, said Tuesday that G.M. should consider bankruptcy. ''The way to solve that problem is not to lend more money to G.M.,'' he said in an interview with Charlie Rose on PBS.
Instead, G.M. should submit a prepackaged bankruptcy, laying out steps it plans to enact once in Chapter 11 protection, said Mr. Ackman, who is not a major holder of G.M. shares.
''I'd rather the government's money be used to train people for other jobs,'' Mr. Ackman said. ''The bankruptcy word scares people. It's simply a system.''
Not surprisingly, Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, disagrees. He told investors last week that ''the consequences of bankruptcy would be dire and extend far beyond'' the company. G.M. will ''take every action we possibly can to avoid it,'' he added.
The company also may be forced to take drastic actions as a condition of receiving any federal bailout package. It may include stiff requirements that G.M. and other automakers restructure and meet financial goals before they can get access to federal financing. Lawmakers may also demand a change in management.
Such demands ''may have the same end as a restructuring,'' but avoid the taint of an actual bankruptcy filing, said Susan R. Helper, a professor of regional economic development at Case Western Reserve University.
Even though a bankruptcy might help create a stronger company in the long run, consumers could easily see it as a sign that the cars they bought might not retain their value, and seek other options when shopping for a new car. (By contrast, travelers tend to have fewer concerns about flying on airlines operating in bankruptcy because their commitment ends with the flight.)
A car is ''a major investment for a lot of families and the assurance that it will perform for a set period of time is part of the bargain,'' said Christie L. Nordhielm, an associate professor of marketing at the University of Michigan.
To help ease consumers' fears, G.M. could put money in escrow to reimburse its 6,468 dealers for any repairs to address problems covered by warranties. Airlines have taken such steps in the past to guarantee the value of tickets for future flights.
A study of 6,000 consumers last summer by CNW Marketing found that 80 percent of them said they would switch companies if G.M. or Ford filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States, suggesting that only G.M. loyalists would stand by the automaker.
A bankruptcy filing by a single Detroit car company could cost the economy $175 billion in the first year of the legal case in lost employee income and tax revenue, the Center for Automotive Research estimated this week. Given the complexity, a G.M. bankruptcy case could last three years or more.
A bankruptcy at G.M., with $111 billion in assets, would rank as one of the biggest bankruptcies ever, but would still be dwarfed by the case filed by Lehman Brothers in September.
There are parallels between the Lehman bankruptcy and G.M.'s situation. In each case, the government was faced with deciding whether it was worth favoring one entity over its competitors as it worried about the impact on the broader economy of a potential collapse.
Certainly workers in other industries who have lost their jobs may feel the government should extend more help to them, too.
''Why should the government treat G.M., Ford and Chrysler workers any differently?'' said Professor Slaughter.
But the United Automobile Workers union, which has joined the automakers to push for a bailout, might find grounds for a strike if a bankrupt G.M. asked a court to throw out its labor contracts.
A bankruptcy also could jeopardize the fate of a health care fund created in 2007 that was supposed to shift a $100 billion burden off the companies' backs. The U.A.W. recently agreed to let G.M. delay payments to the fund.
Professor Helper, of Case Western Reserve, said the social cost to communities in Michigan, Ohio and other states where its 55 plants and other operations are located could be devastating, if G.M. were to liquidate or significantly cut its work force.
''Even if they go bankrupt in a year, it is better than going bankrupt now,'' given the state of the national economy, she said. ''From a social point of view, even if G.M. is not providing a return on investment, it is still providing a lot of good jobs.''
Correction: November 14, 2008, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the possibility of a bankruptcy filing by General Motors misstated the timing of a bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers. It was in September, not last spring.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at a General Motors plant in Warren, Mich. A bankruptcy could save some jobs, but might dissuade customers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (57%); CHARLIE ROSE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



549 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Red Sox Will Not Raise Ticket Prices

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Boston Red Sox froze their ticket prices at already-high 2008 levels Wednesday, a clear reflection of the worsening economic crisis.
 ''We are hearing from fans and seeing for ourselves that these are uncertain, at best, and perilous, at worst, economic conditions,'' Larry Lucchino, the Red Sox' chief executive, said in a telephone interview.
 The team had raised prices on some tickets at Fenway Park every season since 1995, settling on the current range for general-admission tickets of $12 for upper bleachers to $125 for field boxes. The team, with 469 consecutive home sellouts, drew three million fans last season, a home attendance record. Lucchino said that the team could have raised ticket prices this season but that its analysis of focus group research, fan feedback and the economy led to the freeze. 
 According to Team Marketing Report, the Red Sox' average ticket price of $48.80 was the highest in baseball. 
 ''This is not based on an assessment of a reduction in demand,'' he said. ''We have thousands of people who pay to be on our waiting list. This is an assessment that this was the right thing to do for the people of Red Sox Nation who have been loyal and committed fans to us.''
 The Red Sox follow the Houston Astros and the Pittsburgh Pirates (for the seventh straight season at PNC Park) in freezing their ticket prices.
 The Milwaukee Brewers did not increase prices on 27 percent of their seats at Miller Park, but raised the average price for 2009 by 5 percent.
 ''That's historically low for a team that just reached the postseason after not making the playoffs for a while,'' Rick Schlesinger, the Brewers' executive vice president for business operations, said recently.
 Hours after the Red Sox announced their price freeze, the N.F.L. said that the average price paid by fans for 2009 playoff tickets, except the Super Bowl, would be 10 percent less than it was last January. The three rounds of postseason games this year cost an average of $121 a ticket.
 Pricing, done by the playoff teams for the games leading to the Super Bowl, will be set in conjunction with Commissioner Roger Goodell.
 The Red Sox' business operation is considered one of the most sophisticated in baseball; the team is entering the eighth season of a plan to modernize Fenway Park, built in 1912, and increase its capacity from 36,108. 
 ''We don't budget to lose money,'' Lucchino said.
 Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College and an expert on sports economics, said the Red Sox' price-freeze was an admission of difficult times ahead by one of the elite teams in baseball.
 ''It means that even with a wildly popular team, in a stadium with the smallest seating capacity, and in a large market with the most excess demand for tickets, the anticipated economic condition next spring and summer is so weak that it will not sustain further increases in ticket prices,'' Zimbalist said.
 The Red Sox' acknowledgment of the effects of the recession and the toll high prices have taken on fans comes as the Yankees are building a $1.3 billion stadium scheduled to open in April. Although the team has said that the prices for 25,000 seats would not be increased over 2008 levels, a considerable number of tickets, especially the premium ones, will cost much more. Some tickets, fans have said, have soared from $220 in the current stadium to $650 for the equivalent locations in the new one. 
 The Yankees have seven unsold luxury suites at the new stadium, and the number of potential season-ticket and premium-seat buyers has slowed.
 ''We can see that the economy is affecting the traffic,'' Lonn Trost, the Yankees' chief operating officer, said Tuesday. ''Listen, nobody can avoid it. We recognize it. You wake up in the morning, and you see it.''
 In their state of perpetual rivalry, the Yankees, with a $209.1 million player payroll, failed to make the playoffs last season, while the Red Sox spent $133.4 million and lost to Tampa Bay in the American League Championship Series.
 Team Marketing Report said the Yankees' average ticket price of $41.40 was third. But the Yankees' average premium ticket price of $203.72 was higher than the $163.86 of the Red Sox, but ranked second to the Dodgers' $223.38.
 The prices for Fenway's premium seats, which fans have contracts for, were also frozen at $150 to $325 each, and fans buying them will get a year added to their contracts. 
 The deepening recession is beginning to alter the pricing equation of a sport that usually only sees attendance and ticket costs rise. ''I think baseball teams get it,'' said Jon Greenberg, the executive editor of Team Marketing Report. ''If they don't, they will. When the Boston Red Sox aren't raising prices, how can other teams justify it?''
 Lucchino said that Boston was feeling the impact of rising unemployment. ''We're still early in the display of real-world consequences,'' he said.
 Meanwhile, the Tribune Co., which has been trying to sell the Chicago Cubs since April 2007, told potential buyers in a recent letter that it was seeking bids by Nov. 27. The company, which wants more than $1 billion for the team and Wrigley Field, is telling suitors it will be flexible in the stake it is willing to sell and in the length of the payout. Any buyer then needs to secure financing in one of the worst credit markets in memory.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Red Sox, who have had 469 consecutive sellouts at Fenway Park and have a long waiting list for season tickets, had raised ticket prices every year since 1995.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN PETERSEN/GETTY IMAGES)
 The Red Sox are among three baseball teams to freeze their ticket prices for next season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CJ GUNTHER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. B16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); BASEBALL (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); TOURNAMENTS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOCUS GROUPS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (54%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (54%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



550 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Sinus Sufferer Turns Nasal Spray Project Into Sales Leader

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO

DATELINE: SANTA ROSA, Calif. 

 BODY:
 FOR wits ranging from primary-school science teachers to Madison Avenue advertising teams, the phrase ''the nose knows'' has long proved irresistible. It might also be used to describe the unusual path taken by Dr. Ketan Mehta, a pulmonary and critical-care physician in this Sonoma County city, to entrepreneurial success.
 The soft-spoken Dr. Mehta and his wife, Nina, are the masterminds behind Sinus Rinse, an over-the-counter nasal irrigation product that has relieved millions of sinusitis sufferers from throbbing headaches and the nose-clogging effects of seasonal sinus infections.
 Since 2000, their privately owned company, NeilMed Pharmaceuticals, has evolved from a pet project into a 250-employee player in Santa Rosa's $1.5 billion medical technology sector and a leader in the $6 billion United States market for sinus treatments. 
 Much of this growth has come in the last two years. Although the Mehtas declined to disclose revenue figures, Dr. Mehta estimates NeilMed has tripled sales of Sinus Rinse and its other products during that time. The gains came as the company expanded from its regional base to sell its line of nasal-oriented wares nationally in supermarkets, drug store chains and big-box outlets like Wal-Mart and Costco, as well as in Europe, Australia, Canada and New Zealand.
 ''There is no huge secret to what we are doing here,'' said Dr. Mehta, NeilMed's founder and president. ''It is a simple product and a lot of people can copy it; what sets us apart is the way we execute our plan.''
 NeilMed, named after the Mehtas' 15-year-old son, began in the 1990s as a side project to Dr. Mehta's private practice. Dr. Mehta was suffering from sinusitis at the time, and after having sinus surgery in 1993, he set out to devise a product he could use to rinse his sinuses.
 In his spare time, he experimented with various prototypes. Finally, in 1999, he invested $100,000 of his own money and developed a combination that worked.
 What he came up with was a plastic squeeze bottle, a plastic straw and a screw-on plastic cap designed to fit against the opening of a nostril. He called it Sinus Rinse, applied for a patent and started production immediately.
 Sales were slow at first -- mostly direct transactions conducted personally by Mrs. Mehta, the company's chief executive, with pharmacists in Northern California and the West. At the same time, the Mehtas generated interest in the product by hawking it at allergy conferences and sending samples to allergists and ear, nose and throat doctors across the country.
 The strategy generated steadily rising revenues for Sinus Rinse. The company moved into a nondescript office and factory near the Charles M. Schulz Sonoma County Airport and turned its first profit in 2006. Then, in early 2005, Dr. Mehta decided to diversify the company's product line and developed his own version of the neti pot, an age-old Indian yogic tradition for nasal irrigation.
 That April, fortune struck.
 On a segment of ''The Oprah Winfrey Show,'' Dr. Mehmet Oz, a regular guest, extolled the virtues of nasal irrigation, hailing neti pots as the answer to just about any sinus-related ailment. Across the country, demand for these miniature tea kettles soared. NeilMed was ready and cashed in, selling tens of thousands of neti pots in a matter of weeks.
 ''It is funny to think about, but really, without ever appearing on her show, we owe a lot to Oprah Winfrey,'' said Dr. Mehta, who left India in 1981 to study medicine in the United States.
 Mrs. Mehta agreed. ''We were well known among doctors and pharmacists before that show,'' she said, ''but Oprah Winfrey introduced us to the masses.''
 Much has been written in the scientific press about the benefits of ''positive pressure'' nasal irrigation over the kind of ''negative pressure'' nasal irrigation that neti pots provide. The difference revolves around gravity.
 To use a neti pot, one tilts one's head at a 90-degree angle and quite literally pours water into the nostrils, letting gravity force the water up into the sinus cavity and back again.
 With Sinus Rinse, however, gravity plays no part and there is no need to tilt the head. Instead, the user fills the bottle with warm distilled water, mixes in a packet of isotonic sodium solution and squirts the slightly salted water gently up one nostril until the solution drips out the other side. Then she repeats it with the other nostril.
 Both solutions appear to be effective. Last year, a study by researchers at the University of Michigan showed sinus patients who used a nasal rinse reported fewer symptoms than those who used over-the-counter sprays.
 Dr. Mehta said NeilMed sales figures suggested that customers prefer the newer technique. He noted that Sinus Rinse represented about 65 percent of NeilMed's sales, while the company's neti pot products represented roughly 30 percent. The remaining 5 percent includes a variety of other products such as NasaMist, an isotonic saline spray, and NasoGel, a moisturizer.
 Dr. Winston Vaughan, an ear, nose and throat specialist and co-director of the California Sinus Institute in Palo Alto, Calif., shares the medical community's enthusiasm for NeilMed's products. Unlike many others in his specialty, Dr. Vaughan said he was now likely to suggest in all but the worst cases that his sinusitis patients try nasal irrigation and some of these other remedies first, resorting to surgery only as a last resort.
 These products ''get the junk moving and decrease the amount of mucus that can potentially serve as a source of infection or blockage.'' Dr. Vaughan said, adding that because the water-based solution in Sinus Rinse contains nothing more than isotonic saline, ''it does not add any medication to a patient's treatment regimen,'' so there is no need to worry about how it interacts with medication. 
 These kinds of reviews have the Mehtas excited about the future; despite a sagging economy and a downward trend in consumer spending, Dr. Mehta said he expected growth to continue in the years ahead.
 Still, the nasal irrigation market is rife with competing products, including SinuCleanse from Med-Systems in Madison, Wis.; Nasopure from BeWell Health in Columbia, Mo., and SinuPulse Elite, developed in Switzerland. Dozens of manufacturers offer neti pots, as well.
 Anticipating expansion, Dr. Mehta is looking for a larger space in Santa Rosa to move his operation. In recent weeks, the Mehtas have also started considering the possibility of relocating the company to North Carolina, where the tax burden is lower.
 One aspect of operations that is unlikely to change is NeilMed's approach to business negotiations. Unlike most pharmaceutical companies, which hire brokers as liaisons with supermarkets, drug chains and big-box stores, Mrs. Mehta still handles these negotiations herself.
 Though Mrs. Mehta acknowledged that she received e-mail messages and phone calls at all hours of the day and night, she said NeilMed customers had come to appreciate how hands-on and accessible she is -- something larger medical technology companies simply can't offer.
 ''We're happy with the way everything has worked for us so far,'' she said. ''I don't want to rock the boat.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINUSITIS (90%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); OTOLARYNGOLOGY (78%); IMMUNOLOGY (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); PHARMACIES (76%); PHARMACISTS (76%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); PATENTS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (60%); AIRPORTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (87%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



551 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Nets Try to Help Jobless Fans

BYLINE: By JOSHUA ROBINSON

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

 BODY:
The Nets have announced a program that they said can help fans weather the economic crisis -- if not the team's injury troubles or its mediocre start. 
 The team said Wednesday that it would provide unemployed fans with 1,500 free tickets over the course of five home games if they sign up for the Nets Employment Program. Fans who register on njnets.com will be able to submit their resumes to the team, which would pass them along to prospective employers, including its corporate partners.
 The Nets will also host a career fair at the Izod Center on Nov. 22.
 The project is the brainchild of the Nets' chief executive, Brett Yormark. In his four years on the job, Yormark has become known for his aggressive promotions, including a supply of season tickets for $299 and paying for one hour of tolls at Exit 16W on the New Jersey Turnpike to thank fans for their support. Yormark also orchestrated the renaming of the Nets' home, the Izod Center, in October 2007.
 ''We are committed to investing in our fans now, and hopefully they will invest in us when times are better,'' Yormark said in a statement.
 The tickets for the unemployed will be available for five home games, starting Nov. 22 against the Los Angeles Clippers. JOSHUA ROBINSON 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (76%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



552 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Ease Rules for Mortgage-Relief Program

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The government may modify the rules for a mortgage-relief program established by Congress so that troubled homeowners are better able to swap risky loans for more affordable ones, a top Bush administration official said Wednesday.
 The program, called Hope for Homeowners, was included in a housing bill passed over the summer and was introduced Oct. 1. But there are concerns that lenders will not take part because they have to agree to reduce the value of a loan and take a loss.
 ''We're concerned that the program -- as constructed today -- is limiting people's availability,'' the secretary of housing and urban development, Steven C. Preston, said in an interview with Associated Press writers and editors. 
 In its current design, lenders have to take a big loss. They must absorb the difference between the current mortgage's value and a new loan for 90 percent of the house's current appraised value. One potential change is to make the new loan around 97 percent of the current home value, thus requiring lenders to take a smaller loss, Mr. Preston said.
 Making that change and others ''would open up participation in the program,'' he said.
 Designed by lawmakers eager to respond to the mortgage crisis, the Congressional Budget Office had projected over the summer that the program would let 400,000 troubled homeowners swap risky loans for conventional 30-year fixed-rate loans with lower rates.
 But the early results are discouraging: the government received only 42 applications in the program's first two weeks, according to the Federal Housing Administration. And only 20,000 applications are expected by next fall, according to early projections.
 To take part, homeowners can try to persuade their existing lender to join the program, but the decision is ultimately up to the lender. The banking industry appears likely to favor options that do not require an immediate reduction in principal, like deferring payments, allowing partial payments and lowering the interest rate.
 In addition, the program may be unattractive to some borrowers because those who sell their properties must agree to share some of their profits with the government.
 Meanwhile, HUD is also revising the often-confusing disclosure forms that home buyers receive when they refinance a loan or buy a new house. HUD announced Wednesday that it had completed an overhaul of a 1974 law requiring lenders to give a so-called good faith estimate of mortgage costs, including lenders' payments to mortgage brokers.
 ''It's a big step forward in restoring trust and transparency between the industry and homeowners,'' Mr. Preston said.
 The government, which originally proposed revising these forms more than six years ago and released its latest proposal in March, says the new forms -- to be required starting in 2010 -- should save consumers around $700 in closing costs.
 Mr. Preston acknowledged that industry opposition stalled similar government changes. Had they been made earlier, ''it would have reduced the impact of the crisis that we're seeing today,'' he said.
 Nevertheless, changes to the stack of paperwork that consumers must sign before buying a house will have a big impact on thousands of real estate agents, mortgage brokers, banks and title companies.
 The real estate industry had flooded HUD with complaints that the changes would be complicated and costly, and would not necessarily make the process easier for consumers to understand.
 In theory, if borrowers had a better understanding of loan terms, they might have avoided some of the riskier loan products that became popular in recent years -- like subprime loans, or so-called option ARMs that allow borrowers to pay only the interest on the loan or even less, so the principal increases.
 Minorities have been most abused, research shows. A study of 7,500 mortgages released in May by the Urban Institute and HUD found that black borrowers paid $415 more in loan fees on average than white borrowers. For Hispanic borrowers, the difference was $315.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUDGETS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); WRITERS (69%); CITIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



553 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 738 words

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
Advice for Leaders
 Of Big Economies 
 The leaders of the world's 20 largest economies will have lots of gloomy news to chew over in Washington on Saturday -- from slowing growth to swelling bailouts. Nothing grand is likely to emerge from the sessions, especially as the host, President Bush, is on his way out and the man soon to be the world's most powerful, Barack Obama, is diplomatically staying away. 
 Still, there should be enough heavyweights there -- including French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Gordon Brown, the British prime minister -- to come up with some basic principles. Here are four suggestions, two bitter and two bittersweet. 
 First, politicians should admit that painful structural adjustments are necessary. A lot of the growth in recent years was unhealthy. Distended trade deficits in the United States and Britain financed too much consumption, too many houses and too little investment in manufacturing. Meanwhile, an artificially depressed currency kept uneconomic Chinese exporters in business. 
 Also, easy money supported sky-high commodity prices, which let countries like Russia and Iran get too rich. Good times were too kind to the hotel and gambling industries and not harsh enough on Detroit's automakers. In much of the world, finance and anything to do with real estate grew vastly out of proportion.
 At least some of these excesses need to be reversed, an economic shift that will bring recession and higher unemployment. The Group of 20 should tell the world that it will need to live through an economic night before the dawn arrives. 
 Second, the group's members should make it clear that they won't let the credit crisis stretch that night out unnecessarily. A healing recession should not become a destructive slump. What is required is an ''in-and-out'' commitment to financial support. 
 The ''in'' part is already well advanced. The total value of programs from central banks and governments is now several trillion dollars. There are signs that the financial system may be over the worst, but its recovery is still too slow. More support may be needed. So the group should commit to providing further help for countries in trouble and banks in need of capital. The politicians should also pressure banks to increase their lending. 
 The ''out'' side comes later, but should be sketched out. By the time this recession is over, governments will have lent to, or hold equity in, too many banks and companies. That will hurt the economy. The enlarged government role may be the unfortunate result of past lax oversight. But inadequate regulation should not be replaced by central planning. There should be timetables for governments to sell their stakes and collect on their loans.
 Third, the leaders should do something that comes naturally to politicians -- offer goodies to voters. Fiscal stimulus, whether through tax cuts or carefully aimed additional spending, is necessary to supplement more direct support of the financial system. The prospect of generous help from governments should reduce widespread fear among consumers and companies, which is causing them to cut back spending, making a bad situation worse. 
 The political sweetness of this deficit spending should be tempered by a bitter consideration. Too much government borrowing is risky. It can lead to currency crises and higher inflation. And the sums involved are large. To finance its deficit and its financial support programs, the United States is already expected to issue $1.5 trillion of new debt next year, 30 percent of the total now outstanding.
 Though absent, Mr. Obama should be particularly receptive to a fourth piece of advice for the leaders. He can take the lead on rethinking the way the financial world works. The previously prevailing model -- overly light regulation, unchecked international flows of speculative investments, lax monetary policy -- has failed miserably. It's time to develop a new approach.
 That sounds exciting and challenging, just the sort of thing that people dream of when they go into government. But the work will also be embarrassing for many whose past policies led to the current crisis. They will have to admit their view of the financial world was fundamentally wrong. Admitting failure may be bitter, but it is better than repeating it. EDWARD HADAS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A money changer in Iran. Easy money supported sky-high commodity prices, which let countries like Iran get wealthy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASAN SARBAKHSHIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RECESSION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); LODGING (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); TAX LAW (60%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (53%); AUTOMAKERS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%); GORDON BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



554 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEN/NOW; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: A Trompe-l'Oeil Facade in Need of a Face Lift

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Using only oil paint, the artist Richard J. Haas created an entire cast-iron facade in SoHo more than 30 years ago. Ever since, his five-story trompe l'oeil mural at 114 Prince Street, near Greene Street, has beguiled so many people that it might be thought of as New York's first big two-dimensional architectural landmark. 
 In ''The City Observed: New York,'' for which the earlier photo was taken, Paul Goldberger called the mural a ''great gift to New York,'' adding, ''The cat in the window is too cute and a giveaway, but this is still witty and attractive and lovable and full of understanding of what makes a city block work.''
 Another critic, Peter Blake, said the mural demonstrated that ''it takes only genius and a few gallons of the right colors to enhance our gloomy environment.''
 While attracting countless double takes since then, the mural seemed resistant to graffiti until recently. The only noticeable addition was a second cat perched where Mr. Haas painted his. ''Somebody made what I think is a sensitive addition,'' said the artist, ''though he was not a very good cat painter.''
 Today, however, having survived the era when just about any prominent wall surface attracted vandals, Mr. Haas's mural stands defaced, its entire second-story base covered by tags.
 Mr. Haas and his wife, Katherine, learned of the vandalism last month when they were sent a news article from The Villager.
 ''While murals come and go, destruction or damage to certain ones causes greater pain,'' Mrs. Haas said in an e-mail message on Monday. ''This one was the very first, and a few blocks from where we lived, and I can remember going by it every day and marveling at the wall as the painting evolved. I remember Dick at this drawing table working out the proportions of the windows to accommodate the two real ones.''
 Though the SoHo Alliance has offered to pay for undoing the immediate damage, larger questions hang over the mural. The paint job is showing its age, ruining the once-persuasive illusion. The cost of repairing the wall and repainting the mural was estimated at $100,000 a decade ago, Mr. Haas said. That would be a tough nut for any landlord, especially in a recession. And even if it were restored, what would happen if a new building rose where the adjacent one-story structure now stands?
 Mrs. Haas said she still hoped a donor might be found to finance a restoration. In the process, she said, her husband ''would happily accommodate an improved version of the second cat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The building at 114 Prince Street not long after the ''cast-iron facade,'' perhaps the city's first big two-dimensional architectural landmark, was created by Richard J. Haas with oil paints.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/''THE CITY OBSERVED: NEW YORK'')
 The building survived the era when just about any blank wall would be a blank canvas for graffiti makers, but today graffiti tags cover the entire second floor of the building's side.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VANDALISM (91%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



555 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: In Tough Times, Tackle Anxiety First

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
With the economy in deep trouble, all sorts of people -- consultants and authors among them -- are offering all sorts of advice. Most of it is solid, if obvious: Find a good law firm, protect your credit, bill early and often, and perhaps the most self-evident, don't hire unqualified workers.
 Jeffrey Hull, a former corporate manager who now blends careers as an executive coach and psychotherapist, suggests a survival strategy that goes to the heart of the matter: Don't panic.
 ''What I'm seeing most these days are small-business owners who are not only trying to shift gears in their business in the midst of a downturn,'' he said, ''but shifting their energy to stay out of fear mode, which is even more fundamental -- and tougher to do.'' 
 Mr. Hull said that when he joined Cor Business Inc., a start-up in Harrison, N.Y., as a partner five years ago, most of the clients were Fortune 500 companies like MasterCard, AT&T and Avaya. The main challenge for Cor Business back then was persuading executives to act on its recommendations, not helping them cope with angst.
 This year, however, many of those customers tightened their budgets and gave bigger coaching roles to their own human resources departments or big firms like Drake Beam Morin. That, Mr. Hull said, was his first brush with fear. How were he and his partners, Morgan and Julie McKeown, who founded Cor Business in 2001, going to stanch the bleeding?
 The answer was obvious, he said, though they did not recognize it at first. ''We sat down and felt very negative,'' he said. ''We did brainstorming.'' That was when they realized that almost all their growth this year had been with small businesses.
 Early on, blinded by what he now calls an elitist mentality, the partners had been somewhat dismissive of the newcomers. But more and more entrepreneurs were knocking on their door, as the weakening economy prodded them to overcome their aversion to hiring outside experts. This year, firms with revenue of $1 million to $10 million account for close to half of Cor Business's projected billings of nearly $2 million. Two years ago, firms of that size represented just 20 percent of Cor's billings.
 Better yet, said Mr. Hull, 49, small-business owners tend to be ''more creative and more flexible'' than sprawling, bureaucratic organizations. ''They are great listeners, and act much more quickly,'' he said.
 Mr. Hull acknowledged that he had his own to-do list -- what he calls his six-step program for ''shifting yourself out of fear-based operating mode and getting back on track towards success.'' The first step, he said, is to confess that you are, in fact, afraid. ''Stress, worry and apprehension are all elements of fear,'' he said. ''It's scary right now being in business, but that is what entrepreneurship is all about.''
 The second step is to respond to that fear with calm deliberation rather than rash acts that may lead businesses into deeper trouble. ''I hammer that distinction into clients,'' he said. 
 The third is for businesses to refocus their efforts on undertakings they are good at. The fourth is to ''reframe the story'' by looking for new opportunities in difficult times. 
 The fifth is for entrepreneurs to maintain a balance between their work and personal lives. The sixth is to seek out a critic who will give unvarnished feedback about potential blind spots.
 He said he used those principles in his coaching. One client, the co-owner of a real estate investment company in New Jersey, was thinking about scratching a plan to buy a warehouse and turn it into a supermarket, fearing that it would fail and he would be stuck with a lot of debt. ''I asked him if he was focusing on what might not work or what could work,'' Mr. Hull said. ''He realized he had done a lot of research. He knew that people had to buy food, even in a recession. He turned his energy focus from negative to positive. I believe he is going to go through with the deal.''
 The same client worried about his firm's sluggish growth, Mr. Hull said. With revenue stuck at about $5 million, the client felt intimidated when he bumped into people like Donald Trump at an industry conference. ''It was a classic entrepreneurial conundrum,'' Mr. Hull said. ''You reach a certain level of success and stop growing because you're reluctant to change your ways.''
 He urged the two owners of the investment company to start acting like a bigger company by holding regular, structured meetings instead of communicating with each other and their staff members by frequent workplace chats. He also suggested that they assume responsibilities that played to their strengths (one was a schmoozer and a visionary, the other an introvert and numbers cruncher), rather than working out every decision together.
 ''They agreed, he said. ''They're practicing it.''
 In another case, the son of the founder of a manufacturing company in Manhattan feared that many of his employees, unhappy with his plan to move his factory to another borough, would desert him.
 ''I had him refocus on the truth,'' Mr. Hull said. ''He had asked each of them if they would come with him, and they all had said yes. He had lost sight of his homework.''
 Most successful entrepreneurs will often recall their missteps, almost with pride, and tell of how they turned them into opportunities. Reinventing yourself is a mark of the entrepreneurial personality -- and it is never too late. 
 Mr. Hull himself started his first business, a consulting firm, with a partner in 1995 when he was 35, after 15 years as a corporate human resources manager, including six years as the director of the department at Booz Allen Hamilton. Though the company was successful, the partners dissolved it in 2000 ''to think about what we really wanted to do with our lives.'' The other partner went to medical school, and Mr. Hull earned his doctorate in psychology in 2003, joining Cor Business that year. He opened his private counseling practice, Life-Shifting Inc., in Manhattan in 2004.
 Asked whether he and his partners feel that cold stab of apprehension that he warns his clients about as revenue at Cor Business stagnates this year after six years of strong growth, Mr. Hull responded, ''How could we not, in the midst of the worst economy in my lifetime?'' Then he added: ''How do I deal with it? By trying to practice what I preach. You have to stay optimistic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey Hull, a psychotherapist and an executive coach in Cairo, N.Y., advises entrepreneurs on coping in a faltering economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEWART CAIRNS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (76%)

COMPANY: GOOD LAW FIRM (91%); AVAYA INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



556 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Small Business; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: And Now for the Mergers

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
WHEN Prince Industries, a machine manufacturer based in the Chicago suburb of Carol Stream, wanted to expand earlier this year, it used a strategy suited to tough economic times. Greg Roskuszka, the president, asked loan workout specialists who counsel troubled companies if they could recommend a suitable acquisition. 
 The result was a $1 million deal in August to buy all the assets of a competing company directly from the bank that was foreclosing on it. The main attraction was the fabrication shop, including high-end painting equipment in mint condition that would enable Prince to do its own painting. An unanticipated benefit was that various important clients transferred their business to Prince, which has about 300 employees. 
 Annual revenue, which was $36 million last year, was up 3 percent in 2008, partly as a result of the acquisition, Mr. Roskuszka said. He figured the total value of the purchase was about four times what Prince spent. 
 It is a shoppers' paradise for cash-rich or creditworthy companies that want to grow strategically. Their targets may be other small enterprises or divisions of larger companies. The acquiring firms stand to achieve business synergies that can improve their bottom line or help them cope with financial uncertainties.
 The current economic environment may allow only the financially fittest among small businesses to survive, just as there has been a consolidation recently among big financial firms. Companies that can't raise capital themselves may choose to become part of a larger entity, while others that are fiscally stronger will grow bigger through acquisitions. 
 ''A lot of people are shocked that anybody would buy a business when things are down,'' said Richard Millman, president of the Millman Lumber Company, a 300-employee business based in St. Louis, which had revenue last year of $210 million. ''But that's really the best time to buy because you're not paying a premium.''
 In March, Millman, which had been the Midwestern distributor for the Weyerhaeuser lumber and paper company, acquired two Kansas lumberyards from Weyerhaeuser for $24 million. In a weak economy, the purchase strengthened Millman's hand, Mr. Millman said, by eliminating competition from Weyerhaeuser as a distributor in two markets -- Kansas City, Kan., and Wichita. Both businesses are profitable, and Millman is now considering another potential deal with Weyerhaeuser, he said.
 While Mr. Millman described the spring deal as ''fair for both sides,'' other companies have been able to buy competitors at fire sale prices. Prompt Mailers, a $9 million printing and direct mail company on Staten Island with 85 employees, bought a competitor in January for about $50,000 in cash, reflecting the value of the company's equipment.
 Return Path, a New York-based company that helps business e-mail messages get past spam filters, acquired its biggest competitor in August. The deal generated ''instant incremental profits'' projected to be several million dollars a year, said Matt Blumberg, chief executive of Return Path, which has annual revenue of $30 million. The acquisition, for an undisclosed sum, added 500 customers to Return Path's business, increasing its customer base by 50 percent, Mr. Blumberg said.
 Not knowing how many clients of the prior company will carry over can make it difficult to price an acquisition. Alan Gaynor & Company, a boutique architectural firm in New York that bought another small firm in September after the owner died, structured the deal conservatively: it paid a nominal upfront sum and agreed to pay a percentage of the revenue from clients who continued. (Gaynor would not disclose specifics.) 
 After the purchase, the troubles on Wall Street deepened and spread into the broader economy. Michele Boddewyn, a principal at the firm, which had 12 employees and hired 3 more from the other company, remembers wondering, ''Did we just buy nothing?'' At worst, Gaynor will have forfeited its lump sum payment for the business, she said.
 For continuity, most firms bring along the employees who were responsible for major accounts. But making the transition to new ownership can be tricky. 
 Prince interviewed all 19 employees of the company it acquired, tried out five as consultants for two weeks, and hired four. It was important to quickly identify the ''A players,'' Mr. Roskuszka said, because of the risk of losing them to other companies.
 Whatever advantages a company thinks it can achieve may not materialize as quickly or as profoundly as the owners might like. Mr. Blumberg, who has bought several businesses to complement Return Path, said the hardest part had always been assimilating the customers and staffs of the two enterprises. His advice: Before acquiring another company, cut your initial estimate of business synergy in half. Then make sure you still want to do the deal. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BARGAINS: Greg Roskuszka, above right, president of Prince Industries, with an employee, Jeff Kerley. Prince bought a foreclosed company to expand. At right, Prince's factory. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); PAPER MFG (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (62%); EMAIL MARKETING (60%)

COMPANY: MILLMAN LUMBER CO (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2431 MILLWORK (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); WICHITA, KS, USA (67%) KANSAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



557 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Small Business; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1848 words

HEADLINE: What About Joe?

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
JOE THE PLUMBER spent Election Day running vent lines for a new McDonald's going up in Coney Island, chomping a breakfast of baby carrots as he hauled 10-foot lengths of four-inch No-Hub pipe from his van to the construction site around the corner. 
 A few miles away, Joe the Plumber spent Election Day inspecting the boiler at a French-Caribbean Seventh-day Adventist church and installing an under-sink water heater for a construction company in Canarsie, then responding to a no-heat call at a home and unclogging a sewer stoppage at a McDonald's in Queens.
 They are hardly famous, these plumbers named Joe, first cousins who have known since grade school that they would follow their fathers into the Brooklyn-based family business, J. Caiazzo Plumbing and Heating, which their grandfather -- Joe, naturally -- started in 1951. They do not earn anything close to $250,000 a year: Big Joe, who is 25 and handles construction, makes $17.50 an hour; Little Joe, 24, who does ''jobbing'' -- last-minute calls like boiler inspections, new water heaters, no heat and sewer stoppages -- $18. 
 Neither lasted very long in community college; both learned the trade they love riding the truck, from the time they were big enough to hold a flashlight over Dad's shoulders to the high school summers they spent as apprentices. Now, though it will be years before they invest up to $10,000 in the licensure exam, they are the teachers, training younger brothers, cousins and other green Caiazzo recruits.
 ''I go home with cleaner pants now,'' said Big Joe, who was wearing a burgundy company T-shirt over jeans that, while freshly laundered, had dirt stains deep in the denim. ''I am a lucky plumber. They know I work hard, but at the same time, I know they're not going to fire me.''
 Little Joe has the dirtier job; he wears sneakers and carries his boots, so as not to muck up people's carpets. He is not worried about the economy because ''plumbing's a business that people are always going to need.''
 ''Once the winter hits, pipes start freezing and people need their heat a lot more,'' he said. ''The business can go under, but you can always go out and get a job and say, 'I know this.' '' 
 Senator John McCain may have lost the presidential election, but he succeeded in adding ''Joe the Plumber'' to the American lexicon, making a household name of Samuel J. Wurzelbacher, the Ohio journeyman whose question about taxes led Barack Obama to say he wanted to ''spread the wealth around.'' 
 Mr. Wurzelbacher apparently has a book deal in the works and has hired the management firm that handled country, rock and pop musicians including Grand Funk Railroad, Leon Redbone and the Gatlin Brothers. At cafepress.com, you can buy a Joe the Plumber trucker hat ($11.99), baseball jersey ($29.99) or baby bib ($7.99). In the waning days of the campaign, Republican rallies were wallpapered with ''I Am Joe the Plumber'' signs, Spartacus-like.
 And on Halloween, 12-year-old Finlay McCracken, whose father, Todd, is president of the National Small Business Association, popped a pillow under a T-shirt that read ''Joe's plumbing,'' put a plunger through his belt loop and collected candy in an old plastic bucket.
 ''What's better than a plumber?'' Mr. McCracken, of Arlington, Va., said when asked why he thought the character had so captivated the public imagination. ''A plumber is someone who, yes, has a great deal of skill to do the job, but it doesn't require a Ph.D. It's something that even an American who doesn't go to college can aspire to and be a part of the American dream, but not part of the elite.
 ''If it had been Joe the Business Consultant -- because he's a small-business owner, too -- that wouldn't have worked out so well.''
 While Mr. Wurzelbacher's question concerned Mr. Obama's plan to raise taxes on people earning $250,000 a year, the median wage of the nation's 436,000 plumbers, pipefitters and steamfitters in 2007 was $44,090, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Mr. Wurzelbacher was talking about buying the business where he worked, and, indeed, 12 percent of all plumbers are self-employed. Broadly speaking, about three-quarters of small-business owners report business income as personal income; of these 11 million owners, about 4 or 5 percent make more than $250,000 a year, Mr. McCracken said. 
 According to a 2005 survey by the Plumbing-Heating-Cooling Contractors Association -- whose president, of course, is a plumber named Joe (Schmitt, of Englewood, Ohio) -- about a quarter of its 4,000 members have less than $500,000 in annual revenue, and 29 percent have more than $2.5 million.
 J. Caiazzo has $3 million in annual revenue and 29 employees (six of them Caiazzos). It has a 4,000-square-foot warehouse on a semi-industrial four-lane stretch in central Brooklyn. It has 12 trucks -- vans, really -- and its work is roughly 30 percent new construction (McDonald's and Washington Mutual are among the major corporate clients), 35 percent rehabbing (including Matt Damon's downtown loft), 25 percent ''jobbing'' and 10 percent installing fire sprinklers. Lately, the company has been busy updating McDonald's franchises -- for up to $15,000 each -- to accommodate the fancy French coffee drinks the chain has added to its menu. 
 ''I'm very active in the paperwork industry part of it,'' said the company president, 57-year-old Anthony Caiazzo -- the oldest son of the Original Joe and the father of Big Joe. ''I had two fights with inspectors yesterday -- I'm going to win them both. I'm on a subcommittee to the New York City buildings department. I'm the blue-collar guy who comes up and sits with all the architects and engineers and says, 'Guys, you're thick, you don't know what you're talking about.' I'm probably one of the few up there who can still clean out a sewer.''
 He added: ''Yeah, I'm successful, but I'm not a businessman. I'm more like, 'Let's go out and make money today.' ''
 Wages at Caiazzo, a nonunion shop, start at $8 an hour for, as Anthony Caiazzo put it, ''a guy who knows nothing'' and top out about $52,000 a year (he declined to discuss his own salary and that of his brothers; the three are the co-owners). Twelve of the 29 workers are in their 20s, six in their 50s; 16 have been with Caiazzo more than five years, four of them more than 20. 
 ''Most of these guys start out from scratch, they start out on the truck,'' Anthony Caiazzo said. ''Education I don't ask about. Driver's license is what I insist on.'' 
 Insurance -- health, auto, liability, worker's compensation -- is the company's biggest expense after payroll and materials: about $400,000 a year, double what it was in 2000. The company offers health benefits, splitting the premiums with employees, but many of the workers do not participate in the plan because, Mr. Caiazzo said, ''the young guys don't want benefits; the young guys want the money.''
 Before Joe the Plumber, the big jokes about plumbers were that they kept you waiting longer, and charged more, than doctors. The waiting, Little Joe explained this way: ''I work on old houses, so you touch old pipes, they start leaking.'' Of the clients, he said, ''They're usually nice until we give them the bill.''
 Back at the office, Uncle Anthony gets the complaints. Why did it cost $120 to install a nickel washer?
 ''I say, 'Well, bring your sink down to me, I'll charge you $25,' '' he explained. ''Going from one spot to the next spot is time, and someone's got to pay for it.'' And those fancy $2,500 cameras that see through walls, so you don't have to tear up the whole thing to find the problem spot? ''It costs money to buy 'em,'' he said. ''It's got to cost money to use 'em.''
 Big Joe and his girlfriend, a social worker, live with his parents and his four siblings in the Long Island home where he grew up. He and Anthony often cook dinner together in the kitchen they recently renovated, and they're planning to turn the basement into a suite for the young couple.
 When gasoline prices were high this summer, Big Joe parked his pickup truck and counted on friends for rides; now, given the economy, he feels pretty lucky to be getting plenty of overtime and to have enough money for a recent weekend in Pittsburgh to visit old friends. He went to Nassau Community College for a year and a half to please his mother, a nurse, but really never considered any other job. 
 ''Plumbing is like a puzzle, and I have to figure it out,'' he explained. ''Mentally that's tougher than doing the work.'' Standing among the metal beams and plywood that would someday be a McDonald's, he pointed to a spot on the floor, ''This is a mop sink.'' Then, to an identical-looking spot, ''This is going to be a hand sink right here.'' Of a square between metal bars, ''This is the bathroom area.'' 
 Big Joe does not miss the two years he spent overhauling the Queens Plaza subway station (''It's hot in the subways in the summer; it's sweltering''), and he is the right guy to ask if you want to know where the bathrooms are in a bank (''By my fourth or fifth Washington Mutual, it was a piece of cake''). A bad day is driving to New Jersey to pick up a part rather than getting his hands dirty. Or getting his hands too dirty.
 ''The worst part is cleaning out a grease trap,'' he said. ''There's nothing fun about that.''
 Little Joe, too, counts the worst days as those spent in traffic, shuttling from Brooklyn to Staten Island to Long Island and back. ''When you're working, the day goes a lot quicker,'' he said.
 After high school, thinking ''maybe I should not start working for the rest of my life already,'' Little Joe enrolled in Kingsborough Community College in Brooklyn. But September brought ''a stretch of real good waves'' in the Rockaways, where he still lives with his parents, so he skipped a lot of classes, and then he skipped them all. ''I could have studied business,'' he said. ''But I could learn that off my father or my uncle -- they've been doing it for years.''
 Besides the annual boiler inspections required for all public-access buildings in New York -- 10 or 15 minutes jotting down model numbers and filling in a page-long safety checklist that requires no tools beyond a flashlight and a pen -- Little Joe likes fixing boilers.
 ''You think; you use your brain,'' he explained. ''You're going from control to control to see why it's not firing -- a boiler is just one big circuit. I like using my head.''
 So, about that election: 
 Big Joe watched all three presidential debates, and got up early to vote -- for Mr. Obama. ''I'm not making $250,000 a year, so I'm not going to be taxed like that,'' he noted. Anthony Caiazzo voted for Mr. McCain because, he said, ''there's some things about Obama's ways that just don't sit right with me.'' 
 And Little Joe, who gets the Joe the Plumber treatment virtually every time he introduces himself on a service call -- which is to say four or five times a day -- did not vote. ''I don't know enough about it, never really took interest in it,'' he shrugged. ''I think it's all just an act.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FILING: Floor plans lining the walls at J. Caiazzo Plumbing and Heating in Brooklyn.
JOB SECURITY: ''Big Joe'' Caiazzo, on a construction project in Coney Island, said of his family's business, ''They know I work hard, but at the same time, I know they're not going to fire me.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
 GENERATIONS: Mike Caiazzo, left, is one of six family members at J. Caiazzo. His uncle, Anthony Caiazzo, above, said, ''The young guys don't want benefits, the young guys want the money.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); FAMILY (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



558 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: ING Posts Its First Loss Ever

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
ING, the Dutch financial services company, reported its first quarterly loss on Wednesday as it wrote down the value of investments hurt by the tight credit markets. 
 ING posted a third-quarter net loss of 478 million euros, or $602 million, in contrast to a year-earlier profit of 1.1 billion euros, as it took 1.5 billion euros in pretax impairments on equities and debt securities, including subprime residential mortgage-backed securities and so-called Alt-A mortgage securities. 
 The July-September period was one of the worst quarters for global markets since the 1930s, as the insurance giant American International Group and the investment bank Lehman Brothers foundered, stocks plunged and credit markets froze. Banks worldwide have posted losses and write-downs of more than $900 billion since the start of the credit crisis last year, according to Bloomberg News. 
 In early Amsterdam trading, shares of ING rose 3.2 percent as the broader European market gained. 
 In a statement, Michel Tilmant, the ING chief executive, said the third quarter was ''extremely challenging,'' for financial institutions, but that the bank's underlying commercial performance was sound. He also warned that continuing market turbulence would probably hurt the bank's fourth-quarter results, ''while weakening economic conditions will put pressure on results into 2009.''
 ING became the first business to tap the Dutch government last month for a capital infusion, taking 10 billion euros to increase its financial strength. It argued that the capital injection had become necessary to reassure customers after a wave of government bailouts began to shore up weaker rivals in the United States and Europe. 
 The bank said that on a pro-forma, or unofficial, basis, the government cash injection would raise its core Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.04 percent. Tier 1 capital, a measure of banks' financial strength, has become the de facto standard by which institutions are being judged.
 The Dutch bank said it would not pay a final dividend for the year. Its results were slightly better than it had forecast last month. 
 UniCredit, the Italian bank, also reported results Wednesday. The bank said in Milan that its third-quarter profit fell 54 percent from a year earlier, to 551 million euros, as it wrote down another 693 million euros on soured investments. The bank is planning to raise 6.6 billion euros in new capital to bolster its finances. 
 UniCredit shares rose 8.5 percent in Milan. They have lost 65 percent of their value this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); EURO (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (76%); INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



559 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: The Golden Years, Tarnished

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
Since the stock market began to fall, friends have been coming to Barbara Goldsmith to talk about their depression, loss of appetite, insomnia and cravings for hot fudge sundaes. 
 ''People are grieving,'' said Ms. Goldsmith, a semiretired psychotherapist who counsels fellow residents of the Gleneagles Country Club, a gated community here. ''There was a death. Their money died.'' 
 In communities like Gleneagles and in the homes of retirees across the country, these are days of fear and uncertainty. In theory, retired people are not supposed to invest much in the stock market; in reality, many millions of them do. With the economy in free fall and stocks down about 40 percent this year, legions of middle- and upper-middle-class people are suddenly worried about having enough to carry them through.
 To be sure, no bread lines are forming at places like Gleneagles. The community remains placid and, on the surface at least, highly prosperous. Retirees play golf, tennis and cards amid peach-colored condominium villas, ornate fountains, and manicured palm trees and violet bougainvillea. 
 But sustaining that comfortable life for another two or three decades, as many retirees hope to do, requires money. People with investments that were worth $1 million or $2 million a few months ago are suddenly canceling cruises, clipping supermarket coupons, eating at home rather than at restaurants and cutting back on contributions to their grandchildren's college educations.
 Like retired people everywhere, residents here knowingly juggled what they saw as competing risks. 
 They all heard the standard advice to move their assets out of stocks and into supersafe investments as they neared retirement. But, with interest rates so low, the returns on safe investments like government bonds were meager, and many of them saw a risk in not keeping some money in stocks. To finance a long retirement, they figured they needed the gains characteristic of the stock market.
 Keeping money in stocks left them exposed, of course, to the risk of a once-in-a-lifetime market meltdown. Now, that day is at hand.
 ''Every television monitor in the card room and locker room is on CNBC, so we can get aggravated all day,'' said Jerry Rivkin, 75, a retired appliance store owner. ''We're playing for nickels and dimes while we watch ourselves losing tens of thousands.''
 To cope, some people are selling their homes up North, so they will have the money to stay here. A handful of condominiums in Gleneagles have gone into foreclosure, something that was almost unheard of until recently. Humor is becoming darker as residents tell jokes about their shrinking ''301(k)'s'' and the sorry inheritances their children will be surprised to receive. 
 For years, retirement and financial advisers have said that elderly people should be lightly invested in stocks, putting most of their assets in bonds, certificates of deposit and other conservative investments. But even some of the experts acknowledge that such a strategy does not always work for retired people in good health who can live to be 90 or older, unless they have a lot of money or move to a place with a low cost of living.
 ''With life expectancies being what they are, and medicine getting better and better every year,'' said Joseph La Scala, a senior financial consultant at GunnAllen Financial, ''someone who is entering retirement now needs to be a long-term investor, and that means there needs to be more of an allocation to growth investments such as equities.''
 According to government statistics, a third of retirees have almost no stock exposure. But those are mostly poor or lower-middle-class people who rely on Social Security for income. Others are shielded by pension benefits, although those have been shrinking in recent years, especially for younger retirees.
 Retirement experts say a majority of people in the middle and upper-middle classes have portfolios that are far more weighted with stocks, and therefore are more risky, than is commonly recommended. According to a recent survey by the University of Michigan that was sponsored by the National Institute on Aging, in the wealthiest 40 percent of the population age 75 and older, more than half had at least a third of their accumulated savings in stocks. 
 ''Older middle-class people have made plans based on a set of assumptions of how the world works, and the world has gone crazy,'' said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. Those assumptions once included the notions that bank accounts and corporate bonds were secure, and blue-chip stocks were the best long-term investments. 
 ''If you call my mother,'' said Jason J. Fichtner, acting deputy commissioner of the Social Security Administration, ''her goal was $1 million to retire on in stock equities. She had that for a weekend, and now it's worth $600,000.'' 
 At Gleneagles, people still play cards, swing 9-irons and take painting classes. But the anxiety in the community is palpable, and rising.
 ''I feel terrible,'' said Harry Pure, 80, retired athletic director at Philadelphia University, who has lost 25 percent of his savings.
 While taking a break from a painting class, he said, ''It was nice to put your head on the pillow at night and know you felt secure. Now I put my head on the pillow and the brain cells are not going to sleep. All different scenarios are playing in my mind now: What to do? What to do? What to do?''
 Even those with relatively large portfolios are feeling the pain. 
 ''This threatens our lifestyle,'' said Sid Freedman, a 74-year-old former owner of a textile company who divides his time between Gleneagles and Great Neck, on Long Island. With more than $2 million in assets, he said, he thought he and his wife were set for a long, secure retirement. 
 But he said his portfolio was down 30 to 40 percent. Without a pension, he said he might have to start contemplating his ''safety net'' if the market keeps falling: the unpleasant thought of selling his house on Long Island, even though that would mean less time with his children and grandchildren up North. 
 Uppermost on Mr. Freedman's mind is his divorced daughter who has two children and a good job, but no support from her former husband, he said. Mr. Freedman had put aside enough money in a fund to pay for a year and a half of college for her oldest son, but that investment was down 20 percent, and he was to start school next year.
 ''We're looking at a totally new ballgame,'' Mr. Freedman said after playing tennis. ''My mother lived to be almost 101 and her mother lived to be 90, so what it means is, if conditions get worse, we could outlive our money.''
 Charles Mailman, 77, a retired zipper manufacturer, said he had accumulated a portfolio worth more than $1 million, 70 percent in stocks, and lost $300,000 in September and October. He said the days of yearly cruises for him and his wife were over for now.
 ''No more decorating, no more vacations, no more heavy-duty spending,'' he said with a sigh. ''If the market has hit bottom and it's on the way back, I can live with that; the question is, what happens if it hasn't?'' 
 As for his broker, Mr. Mailman said, ''He still says, 'Sit tight. You have good stuff.' They all say the same thing.''
 Many people believed in stocks, they said, because the stock market had been good to them for years and represented the best way to keep their portfolios intact or growing. 
 ''We stayed in stocks because they were so wonderful,'' Jack Leinwohl, 67, who owns a U.P.S. store here to keep up his income, said. ''I sold out everything two weeks ago so I can sleep.'' He said he was looking to return to the market, though, because ''I could be out of money in 10 years.''
 Others say they do not dare to look at their portfolios anymore, or ask their spouses how things are going, for fear of the answer.
 ''There is no need for George and me to be crazy together,'' said Ms. Goldsmith, 71, the psychotherapist, speaking of her husband. ''I sleep, but George doesn't.'' 
 As for her three children, Ms. Goldsmith added, ''I am getting them ready. If they are counting on their inheritance, they are in deep trouble.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barbara Goldsmith at a painting class in her gated community in Delray Beach, Fla. She and other seniors who live there, like Charles Mailman, below right, are watching their retirement portfolios shrink at an alarming rate.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Sid Freedman, 74, splits his time between Florida and Long Island but said he might have to sell his New York home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); AGING (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); GOLF (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); BONDS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RETAIL COUPONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



560 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Small Business; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Unpaid, Businesses Become Creative

BYLINE: By COELI CARR

 BODY:
LAST spring, Edward Ip, the owner of IUG Business Solutions, a company that sells point-of-sale systems to retailers, gave a party for about two dozen suppliers at his offices in Lower Manhattan. The event was catered -- with a twist. The caterer was a client of Mr. Ip's who was more than $10,000 behind on payments, and the job provided an opportunity for the caterer to lower his debt. 
 ''I guess that means I'll work for food,'' Mr. Ip said. 
 Collecting money owed is no laughing matter for small businesses, especially during this economic downturn. 
 Last month, Intuit, the Silicon Valley company that makes accounting software for small businesses, surveyed 751 owners of businesses with fewer than 10 employees. Nearly 42 percent of the respondents said that getting paid on time was a top concern, and a third reported seeing more overdue or uncollected debts over the last year, averaging about $1,500 a month.
 Since early fall, Mr. Ip, who is also IUG's president, has also experienced slower payments, with 20 percent of his clientele having fallen behind and owing, on average, between $2,000 and $3,000. ''We have worked with many of our clients for years,'' he said. ''It's not that they don't want to pay, but times are tough.'' 
 Recently Mr. Ip has even helped some of the companies that owe him money to get new loans, which in turn allowed Mr. Ip to be paid. 
 Marcus Muniz, president of Boxes Etc., a company based in Orlando, Fla., which sells preassembled shipping containers and supplies, has also sought to be paid. Last month, about 30 percent of his 1,000 clients were 60 days behind in their payments, with the average debt about $7,000. 
 ''It's a trickle-down effect,'' said Mr. Muniz, referring to clients who had anticipated using the cartons to ship goods that in the end had no buyers. ''We are trying to negotiate.'' 
 He has resorted to delaying some shipments until customers make a payment. And, thanks to his business office's reminders that credit card payments are accepted, about 15 percent of his financially strapped customers now pay that way.
 Even though the fees Mr. Muniz must pay to credit card companies reduce his profits, he said bearing that cost was better than receiving no payment at all. And he said that credit charges allowed clients an extra 30 days to pay. 
 ''Many of my clients are embarrassed,'' Mr. Muniz said, adding that they felt remorse over not being able to pay, as well as ''pride in wanting to pay.'' 
 Early this year, Yin Chang, owner of Phoenix Marketing Communications in Montclair, N.J., which focuses on technology businesses, found herself with a client owing a five-figure amount. Ms. Chang worked out a payment plan and even offered to reduce the debt further if the client sent new business her way. 
 The experience led her to incorporate new terms in her standard contract, which all clients must sign. She now adds 20 percent interest to all payments that are 60 days past due, and she cuts off services to clients with bills 90 days past due.
 ''I feel a little safer,'' Ms. Chang said, adding that her clients had not been deterred by these new measures. ''I don't think any C.E.O. would sign a contract like that unless they felt confident they could pay.'' Her strategy has also caught on. Three of the five business owners she regularly meets with, and who are especially worried about start-up companies' ability to pay on time, have added similar clauses to their contracts. 
 ''The minute business owners fail to recognize that by providing goods and services they become their customer's bank, they put themselves at risk for inappropriately underwriting their customers,'' said Morris Bocian, a business consultant and owner of Creative Business Planning in Livingston, N.J. 
 To protect itself, a company can set a policy that allows it to be paid on a continuing basis as goals are achieved, he said. Or businesses can collect payments in advance, mitigating the risk that the customer will not pay.
 Mr. Bocian cautioned, however, that a contract was only as good as a business owner's willingness to live by it. ''You put your company at risk the moment you fail to enforce the terms,'' he said. 
 Although in the last six months only a few of Mr. Bocian's clients said they had been worried about slow payments or that companies that owe them money might go bankrupt, he expects anxiety to heighten. ''Ultimately, the fear is that their receivables will become uncollectible,'' he said. 
 When such a possibility arises, experts say, it is important to act quickly.
 ''Your ability to collect is greater when debt is new, because once a company is out of business there's nothing to collect,'' said Jocelyn Nager, the president of Frank, Frank, Goldstein & Nager, a law firm in New York. Her company collects bad debt under a contingency arrangement; they are paid only if they collect. ''You want to be the first of all creditors to get paid.'' 
 Often a company that is owed money will hire a collection agency, which is legally allowed to pursue debtors by phone or in writing, Ms. Nager said. But if the agency is unsuccessful, it may subcontract the work to a law firm, which means additional fees for the client. 
 ''It's less costly to hire a collections lawyer directly, and it's often the more expedient move, because commercial claims are usually not paid without a lawsuit,'' she said. 
 Often getting paid comes down to how much the client needs the services of the creditor, said Ken Morrow, a certified public accountant and the owner of Bookkeeping USA, which has offices in Manhattan and Brooklyn. He recommends that his clients go to small claims court to collect. 
 ''The moment a company realizes its clients do not intend to pay, because they won't set a time frame for or an amount of payment, it's off to court,'' Mr. Morrow said. In most cases, he said, companies wait until the last minute and pay before the court appointment. 
 Rick Jensen, a senior vice president at Intuit, said small businesses were paying more attention to back office functions, like tracking every dollar of accounts receivable. ''You need to become more organized and rigorous.'' 
 Mr. Ip is sticking with what works. He is planning another event this year and if necessary, he said, he will work out a catering arrangement with another food company that owes him money. 
 It is important to maintain good relationships and be creative with payment arrangements to show good faith, he says. What's more, Mr. Ip said, he felt strongly that even in a sluggish economy, businesses needed to keep growing. 
 ''Being flexible with our clients helps them,'' he said. ''And it also helps us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BARGAINING: Edward Ip of IUG Business Solutions let a catering company that owed him money work off part of its debt by catering an IUG party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATERING SERVICES (90%); POINT OF SALE SOFTWARE (90%); RETAILERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (57%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



561 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Campaigns Bring On the Humor To Reassure Consumers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
HOW worried are retailers that a crisis in consumer confidence could cast a pall on Christmas shopping? 
 One national chain that has been in business since 1902 plans to devote part of its holiday campaign to reassuring shoppers about the redeemability of its gift cards, much the same way that banks have run ads focused on the safety of a depositor's savings.
 Because so many retailers have been going bankrupt and not honoring gift cards, ''we're going to be more aggressive in our gift-card messaging around the idea that you know J. C. Penney will be around, and the cards are good as gold,'' said Michael Boylson, chief marketing officer at the J. C. Penney Company in Plano, Tex., which will start the holiday campaign on Friday. Although the declarations that ''you can feel good about giving a J. C. Penney gift card'' will be only a small part of the campaign, Mr. Boylson said, they reflect the reality that ''the whole economic uncertainty is a wild card'' as retailers approach the Christmas shopping season. 
 Another national chain, Sears Roebuck, is offering consumers an altruistic incentive to buy and use gift cards. The Sears Holdings Management Corporation will donate $1 to an organization, Rebuilding Together, for each gift card bought at a Sears store, up to $100,000, and donate an additional $250,000 to Rebuilding Together, as well as another $250,000 to the U.S.O., ''as a thank you for all of your Sears card purchases,'' according to magazine ads.
 Sears and Penney are joining a lengthening list of retailers whose holiday advertising will reflect the cautious mood among consumers as data indicate spending is slowing and store revenue is falling. Best Buy shocked Wall Street when it predicted sales declines for the period that includes Christmas.
 Sales last month in Penney stores open more than a year, a closely watched indicator, fell 13 percent compared with October 2007.
 ''Our customers are clearly feeling the pressure,'' Mr. Boylson said, so the campaign will seek to convey that by buying at Penney, ''you can give gifts you're proud of at a price you can afford.''
 One way the campaign intends to communicate that message will be to alternate warm and fuzzy image ads, which carry the theme ''Feel the joy of giving. Every day matters,'' with ads devoted to sales and other promotions, which carry the theme ''Style. Quality. Price matters. Every day matters.'' The campaign is being created by Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 The ads will play up special low prices rather than percentages off regular prices, Mr. Boylson said, because ''50 percent off is almost the price of entry'' in the current retail environment.
 Besides, he added, specific prices are less confusing to shoppers, giving an example of a recent visit to a Penney store: ''I ran into a customer who wanted to know how much a coat on a rack was. I told her it was 40 percent off, and she replied, 'I don't know if I have ''40 percent off'' in my pocket, but I know I have 49.99 in my pocket.' ''
 The Penney campaign includes commercials on television and in movie theaters, mobile marketing, ads online, special content on the company Web site (jcp.com), direct mail and the annual Christmas catalog.
 ''It's the craziest time for retail I've ever seen, and I've been in retail 30-plus years,'' said Bob Thacker, senior vice president for marketing and advertising at OfficeMax in Naperville, Ill. His company, for the third consecutive year, will sponsor a whimsical online campaign on a Web site (elfyourself.com).
 ''It's not like we're providing Fred and Ginger in the Depression,'' Mr. Thacker said, referring to the Astaire-Rogers musicals that entertained moviegoers in the 1930s, but ''if there was ever a need for frivolity, for escape, this is a place to find it.''
 The 2008 version of Elf Yourself, scheduled to go live on Sunday, is being created by the Spiridellis brothers, Evan and Gregg, whose Internet media company, JibJab, specializes in offbeat video clips and customizable greetings.
 Visitors to the Web site will be able to create elfin characters who dance to disco, country and other tunes. New this year, for $3.99, will be the opportunity to download videos to desktops or create printed greeting cards and customized photo gifts like ornaments and mouse pads.
 Another retailer looking on the brighter side is the Gap division of Gap Inc., which is bringing out a campaign featuring celebrities in brightly colored outfits.
 The campaign includes a section of the Gap Web site (gap.com/merrymixit), which is to go live on Thursday, presenting the stars in video clips performing remixed versions of classic holiday songs.
 ''As everything progressed, we decided something lighter in tone would be fitting for the times,'' said Trey Laird, president and creative director at Laird & Partners in New York, the Gap agency.
 ''Definitely, it's going to be promotional out there,'' Mr. Laird said, using the retail term for a climate in which price-cutting predominates, ''but you've got to engage people, too, because there's so many promotions out there.''
 Gap will climb aboard that bandwagon with a Gap Movie Card promotion for filmgoers at 1,000 theaters owned by chains like AMC, Cinemark and Regal. The cards, to be given free to ticket buyers, will be good for 15 percent or 20 percent off merchandise at Gap stores. 
 The celebrities in the Gap campaign include Jon Hamm of ''Mad Men,'' the TV series about advertising in the 1960s, with his girlfriend, the actress Jennifer Westfeldt; cast members of ''Saturday Night Live''; the Dixie Chicks; actors like Jason Bateman, Jason Biggs, Freddy Rodriguez and Rainn Wilson; and actresses like Jennifer Hudson, Milla Jovovich and Mary-Louise Parker. 
 ''It's going to be a tough season for everyone,'' said Kimberly Grabel, senior vice president for marketing at the Saks Fifth Avenue unit of Saks.
 The Saks holiday campaign will be focused on merchandise ''from the pinnacle of luxury to very affordable luxury,'' Ms. Grabel said, ''items that are exclusive to us in a range of price points.''
 And for a bit of whimsy, the Saks holiday catalog will offer readers a chance to solve typographic puzzles for fun rather than prizes.
 For example, what is the answer to a puzzle in which the word ''less'' is printed much, much larger than the word ''more''?
 ''Less is more,'' according to the catalog, a thought that Saks and other retailers undoubtedly hope will come true for the holiday season.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, the actors Freddy Rodriguez, Romany Malko and Jason Biggs appearing in a remixed holiday song. The video clip is available online as part of Gap's holiday campaign.
 OfficeMax is bringing back its Elf Yourself site for the season, which will begin on Sunday. The faces in this example include Bob Thacker, left, an OfficeMax marketing executive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SALES PROJECTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (55%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (55%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (50%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); PUB (PAR) (83%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



562 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Interview Suit

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
THIS is possibly a bad moment to bring up a 1959 film called ''The Best of Everything.'' But, oh, was that a glorious period for the interview suit. It's hard to imagine rejecting Hope Lange for a job when she walked into 375 Park Avenue, and the breeze caught her cuffed navy jacket, revealing a flash of its polka-dot lining and a smart blouse that matched her cream hat. 
 ''Working Girl,'' in 1988, reflected another moment for the interview suit, appropriately enough during the pinnacle of the broad-shouldered, brightly colored power suit, when Elie Tahari and Jones New York were staples of a career woman's wardrobe.
 It was so much simpler then. 
 For a generation of young people who were recruited to technology, financial and news media fields right out of college, and who may now be competing to hold onto the jobs they have or to find any that might be available, figuring out what exactly is the modern day ''interview suit'' is not so easy to do without looking like Melanie Griffith. Walking downtown the other day, the designer Nicole Miller noticed an attractive young woman who was headed toward Wall Street. The woman was wearing a gray pantsuit, which caught the designer's eye because, for much of the last decade, corporate fashion has pulled so far away from the polished, two-piece look that the outfit, while professional, seemed dated. 
 ''I hadn't seen anybody in a pantsuit for so long that I thought it looked wrong,'' Ms. Miller said. 
 But with the unemployment rate in America at a 14-year high and more than half a million jobs lost in the last three months alone, there has been a detectable shift in the way people are dressing for work. In the financial sector, certainly, the tone has become more serious, and as a predictable result, somber suits are making a comeback. Companies like Men's Wearhouse and Tahari are reporting an upswing in suit sales, particularly for those classic navy or gray pinstripe styles they classify as ''interview suits.'' Arthur S. Levine, known as the suit king of Seventh Avenue (who now designs a collection of women's career clothes in a joint venture with Mr. Tahari), said he sold 1.8 million outfits this year, almost 10 percent more than he had expected.
 ''We are back to a time when every company expected both women and men to wear suits and we didn't have a Casual Friday,'' said Gloria Mirrione, a managing director of A-L Associates, a financial services placement firm. ''They are looking for a sharper style. I recommend a strong suit that says you are collected and ready to work.''
 Still, there are a lot of possibilities for error, and even fashion professionals differ in their opinions about what style will make the best impression. For example, on the great debate of pants versus skirt, Simon Kneen, the creative director of Banana Republic, had this advice: ''I would definitely go with a pantsuit because that gives a better silhouette.''
 Ms. Miller said the opposite: ''I'm really against pants. They look too casual in most situations.''
 Who to believe? There isn't always a right answer, but each decision an applicant makes -- pants or skirt, bright color or neutral, heels or flats -- sends a subtle message that may play a role in how she will be perceived in an interview. To relieve some of that pressure, designers and career counselors offered some points to consider when deciding what to wear.
 PANTSUIT, SKIRT SUIT, OR NO SUIT?
 ''There is no one right way to dress,'' said Karen Harvey, a recruiter for top fashion and retail jobs. ''But there are a lot of don'ts.'' The key is to research the corporate culture to learn what a potential boss might expect. But on a basic level, ''it doesn't have to be a suit at all. I recommend clean and simple lines -- anything that doesn't distract the interviewer from understanding the qualities you bring to the table.''
 Jenna Lyons Mazeau, the creative director of J. Crew, said a pencil skirt or tailored trousers, worn with a simple cardigan (preferably cashmere) and a beautiful necklace, looks as sophisticated as a pantsuit. A more individualized look is also a modern way to approach an interview, she said, suggesting that the applicant is creative, free-thinking and confident. But it also depends on the field, and the sportswear ensemble look may be best suited to creative fields. For corporate interviews, the options are still slim, and usually require a suit of some sort.
 Mr. Kneen argued that the advantage of a pantsuit is that it elongates the legs, and ''it's all business when you're wearing pants,'' he said. He recommended double-face fabrics, which look more expensive and feminine than pinstripes. Another traditional choice would be a solid wool crepe dress worn with a matching blazer, as long as the dress is well fitted and flattering.
 ''And if you decide to wear a white shirt, make sure it is pristinely clean,'' he said. ''A new shirt is always the whitest.''
 TO STAND OUT OR TO BLEND IN?
 ''I'm a big fan of sticking with navy or gray pinstripes,'' said James Purcell, a onetime Seventh Avenue designer who now works as an image strategist for executives and politicians. ''But avoid a solid black suit. It's the worst thing a woman could wear because it shows any sign of dandruff and every gray hair that you have.''
 But color can be a tough call. The majority of human resources professionals recommend wearing the classics -- navy, black or gray -- but, then again, playing it safe can also run the risk of looking too uniform.
 ''To me, the most important thing is give people something to remember,'' Ms. Lyons Mazeau said. ''There's going to be a lot of people out there competing for a job, so pick a color, as opposed to wearing all gray.'' But no brights, she said, and ''if you are a blonde, pinks can look less expensive. This is not about wearing a neon sign.''
 Earthier colors, like brown or a rich blue, impart a distinctive personality without coming off as overpowering. But beware of pastels: ''I think that lightly colored suits, unless they are absolutely perfect, can feel a little Eastery,'' she said.
 Lisa Axelson, a senior vice president of design at Ann Taylor, said colorful accessories are another way to add color to a basic suit without risking an outfit so loud that the candidate appears out of place in a conservative environment. Prints, meanwhile, are discouraged. As Ms. Miller said, ''They'll remember you better, but what you want is for them to remember your personality, not to be totally distracted by that person who came in wearing the loud print.''
 ISN'T THERE SOMEONE TO COPY?
 Take cues from what powerful women are wearing, as in Michelle Obama or Sarah Palin. Mrs. Obama wore a J. Crew cardigan with a textured skirt on ''The Tonight Show With Jay Leno'' that demonstrated a classy combination of polish and ease. And Governor Palin, despite the controversy surrounding her campaign clothes, was most often wearing sensible suits from Tahari Arthur S. Levine that she had mixed and matched. Mr. Levine was upset that news programs were so impressed with a red suit with a ribbon belt that they assumed it was by the likes of Oscar de la Renta, not the Tahari suit sold at Neiman Marcus for about $498. About 20 other suits from his collection worn by Ms. Palin cost less than $198.
 ''The point is, you can look like you are wearing designer for not a lot of money,'' he said.
 HOW TO FINISH A LOOK?
 ''The bag you carry is key,'' Ms. Axelson said. ''You don't want to be walking in with an old shopping bag. You want abeautiful, chic tote that carries your BlackBerry and your resume. A tip for people who wear black suits is to pack a small lint roller in your tote bag.''
 And if there's room, some designers advise packing a nice pair of heels to change into just before arriving at the interview, so that they remain unsoiled.
 ''There's nothing wrong with wearing flat shoes and bringing heels,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''Maria Shriver has somebody who carries her shoes for her. High heels help your stance. The American Orthopaedic Association may say I'm crazy, but the right heels will help you get a job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE WAY IT WAS: Hope Lange answered a ''Help Wanted, Female'' ad in a newspaper in the 1959 film ''The Best of Everything.'' (She got the job, but not with this suit.)
 HIRED HELP: Clockwise from far left, a Banana Republic pantsuit, a touch of print from J. Crew, elegant trousers and a sunny cardigan from the Worth Collection, a tailored pencil skirt and feminine blouse by Nicole Miller, and a slouchy pantsuit from Theory.(PHOTOGRAPH BY 20TH CENTURY FOX/EVERETT COLLECTION ) (pg. E10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); WOMEN (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING (69%)

COMPANY: MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (52%)

TICKER: MW (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (52%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (52%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (52%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (52%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



563 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Women Gain In Education But Not Power, Study Finds

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
Women still lag far behind men in top political and decision-making roles, though their access to education and health care is nearly equal, the World Economic Forum said Wednesday. 
 In its 2008 Global Gender Gap report, the forum, a Swiss research organization, ranked Norway, Finland and Sweden as the countries that have the most equality of the sexes, and Saudi Arabia, Chad and Yemen as having the least.
 Using United Nations data, the report found that girls and women around the world had generally reached near-parity with their male peers in literacy, access to education and health and survival. But in terms of economics and politics, including relative access to executive government and corporate posts, the gap between the sexes remains large.
 The United States ranked 27th, above Russia (42nd), China (57th), Brazil (73rd) and India (113th). But the United States was ranked below Germany (11th), Britain (13th), France (15th), Lesotho (16th), Trinidad and Tobago (19th), South Africa (22nd), Argentina (24th) and Cuba (25th). 
 ''The world's women are nearly as educated and as healthy as men, but are nowhere to be found in terms of decision-making,'' said Saadia Zahidi of the World Economic Forum
 Middle Eastern and North African countries received the lowest ratings over all. The rankings of Syria, Qatar, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia declined in 2008.
 The report said the inequalities in those countries were so large as to put them at an economic disadvantage.
 ''A nation's competitiveness depends significantly on whether and how it educates and utilizes its female talent. To maximize its competitiveness and development potential, each country should strive for gender equality.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENDER EQUALITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WOMEN (89%); RANKINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); LESOTHO (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); QATAR (79%); SYRIA (70%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (58%); CUBA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



564 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Mother and Friends See No Killer in Boy Wearing Shackles in Arizona Court

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

DATELINE: ST. JOHNS, Ariz. 

 BODY:
A week after the police charged an 8-year-old boy in the premeditated shooting deaths of his father and another man, the boy's mother, teachers and others who know him say they are no closer to understanding the roots of such a heinous crime.
 ''I don't believe he did this,'' said the mother, Erin Bloomfield, 26, who has shared custody of her son with his father, Vincent Romero, 29, since the couple divorced six years ago. She said she talked to the boy every week and visited an average of once a month, driving the 20 hours to St. Johns from her home in Mississippi.
 Ms. Bloomfield had just returned from her latest visit when she got a call about the shooting and immediately returned to St. Johns, a windy hamlet of horse ranches, low-slung houses and double-wide trailers about 170 miles east-northeast of Phoenix. The largest buildings are a few churches and schools along the single main road, which has no stoplights.
 ''People like their independence and freedom here,'' said Wendy Guffey, 60, a substance abuse counselor at a local health clinic. ''It's sort of the redneck ethic. A lot of people haul their own water and live off generators and candles out here. Back to the land.'' 
 Many of her clients struggle with unemployment, drugs and tedium. ''A lot of people around here say there's nothing to do,'' Ms. Guffey said. 
 Ms. Bloomfield described her son as a ''normal boy'' who played video games nonstop and doted on his new dog, a boxer. But in recent months, she said, he ''seemed to be changing.''
 ''There was a distance with me after a while,'' she said. 
 Whenever she spoke with her son, Ms. Bloomfield said, ''I had to go through Tiffany,'' a reference to his stepmother, Tiffany Romero. ''Tiffany would always sit there while he talked to me on the phone, and after a while, he became more and more distant.''
 She worried, she said, that the boy might be being abused although she had no proof. 
 Before Judge Michael P. Roca of Apache County Superior Court blocked anyone connected to the case from talking to the news media, Police Chief Roy Melnick of St. Johns said there was no evidence that the boy had been abused at home or in school. 
 A person answering the door at the Romero home on Tuesday said Tiffany Romero would not discuss the case because of Judge Roca's order. 
 Ms. Bloomfield said that after her son told her that his father and stepmother quarreled often, ''I called Tiffany about that, and I think I got my son into trouble.'' 
 ''The next time I talked to him about it,'' she added, ''he said that Tiffany told him that 'what happens in this house stays in this house.' '' 
 Ms. Bloomfield also said that her son was close to his father, and that the two regularly played softball and basketball, and went hiking and hunting together, sometimes joined by the other man who was killed, Timothy Romans, 39. Mr. Romans worked in construction with Mr. Romero and rented a room in the family house. 
 Ms. Bloomfield confirmed that after first seeking permission from their parish priest, her ex-husband recently bought their son a .22 rifle for hunting, a common pastime of young boys and their fathers in this town of about 4,000 people. 
 The boy ''took his religious faith very seriously,'' said Sister Angelina Chavez, who has known him since he was a baby and taught his religious class every Monday at St. Johns Catholic Church. It is the church where the Romeros were married in September, and where hundreds of townspeople turned out for Mr. Romero's funeral on Monday. ''I just don't know what happened to him spiritually, emotionally,'' she said.
 ''This is going to take a while to get over,'' Sister Angelina said. ''Parishioners have come to me asking why it happened. I just don't know.''
 Ms. Bloomfield expressed disgust at rumors sweeping the town, among them that her son killed his father because he had not been allowed to go trick-or-treating on Halloween. ''This town is too small,'' she said. ''Everybody thinks they know what happened. They're saying all kinds of things about my son. They have smashed him down to nothing.''
 Chief Melnick has said only that the boy unexpectedly confessed to the killings during the second of two interviews on Nov. 5. Neither a lawyer nor a family member was present either time, the chief said, because the boy was being questioned as a witness, not a suspect.
 Prosecutors charged the boy as an adult, and Ms. Bloomfield said she was terrified they would also attempt to try him as one. The boy is scheduled to undergo three psychological examinations in the coming weeks to determine whether that is possible. 
 A Phoenix defense lawyer, Karyn Klausner, who is a former municipal judge, said that for the boy to be tried as an adult, the tests must show that he is competent to understand the charges against him, has a basic understanding of the court process and is able to assist in his defense. In addition, prosecutors must prove that he cannot be rehabilitated by the time he turns 18 and leaves the juvenile justice system. 
 Ms. Klausner said she was appalled that the authorities were considering such an option. ''There's no way on God's green earth that an 8-year-old should be subject to the adult system,'' she said.
 Prosecutors also have what Ms. Klausner called the unlikely option of deciding that the boy is incompetent to stand trial, detaining him in a psychiatric facility until he is deemed competent, and then trying him as an adult. 
 In a separate case, a county judge in Bisbee, Ariz., on Monday denied a motion to try as an adult a 12-year-old boy accused of killing his mother. In that case, court mental health evaluators determined that the boy could be rehabilitated by the time he turned 18.
 The sight of her young son being led into court in shackles on Monday was especially upsetting, Ms. Bloomfield said. His hands were bound to a security belt that had to be looped around his waist three times because of his small frame. The judge ordered the restraints removed.
 ''I blew some kisses at him and told him to put some in his pocket for later,'' the mother said. ''Later he told me he needed more kisses to put in his pocket.''
 The next hearing, set for next Wednesday, is to focus on requests by defense lawyers for DNA, blood samples, ballistics and other forensics evidence from the crime scene. 
 Two of the boy's friends, Lucas Graf, 12, and Jude Chavez, 11, said they, too, were baffled as to how someone with whom they wrestled and swam in the scorching summer just past could have committed such a brutal act. 
 ''He's a nice kid,'' Lucas said. ''He's normal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hundreds of residents of St. Johns, Ariz., attended funeral services for Vincent Romero on Monday at St. Johns Catholic Church. Mr. Romero's 8-year-old son is accused of killing him and a friend.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA FELTHAUSER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); STEPPARENTS (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); ETHICS (66%); JUDGES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (70%) ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



565 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Led by Intel, Chip Makers Cut Outlook

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
Intel, the world's largest producer of computer chips, warned on Wednesday that its sales could fall as much as 19 percent in the fourth quarter. Other major players in the chip industry, including Applied Materials and National Semiconductor, offered their own bleak outlooks.
 Together, the gloomy forecasts suggest that the technology industry is about to enter a slump that will rival or possibly exceed the dot-com bust of 2001. ''It is really a complete shutdown of consumer and corporate business,'' said John Dryden, an analyst with Charter Equity Research. ''Things have gotten worse every week of October and even worse in November.'' 
Underscoring how rapidly the decline has occurred, Intel's revised forecast came less than a month after it first handed Wall Street guidance for the quarter. Intel said it now expected fourth-quarter revenue of $8.7 billion to $9.3 billion, down from the earlier projection of $10.1 billion to $10.9 billion. Last year, Intel posted fourth-quarter revenue of $10.7 billion. 
 ''There was a very rapid decline in business across all segments and geographies,'' said Tom Beermann, a spokesman for the company, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif. 
 Intel is a bellwether of the tech industry because its chips run hundreds of millions of personal computers and servers used by consumers and businesses. 
 Its warning echoes the sentiments of Cisco Systems, the leading maker of network equipment, which said last week that a ''completely different environment'' had taken hold in October as the financial crisis spread from Wall Street and across the globe. Cisco's sales could drop 10 percent in the second quarter, the company said.
 Intel issued its new forecast after the stock market closed on Wednesday, accompanying grim news from two other leading companies in the semiconductor industry.
 Applied Materials, which produces equipment used by semiconductor makers, reported a 45 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit to $231 million, down from $422 million in the period last year. Sales tumbled 14 percent, to $2.04 billion from $2.37 billion.
 Applied, based in Santa Clara, Calif., said it planned to cut 1,800 jobs -- or close to 12 percent of its staff -- over the next year. It expects to save about $400 million a year from the staff cuts. 
 Mimicking Intel, National Semiconductor lowered its sales forecast for the current quarter by more than 10 percent. It had expected revenue of $470 million to $480 million for the period ending Nov. 23, but is now looking for revenue of $420 million to $425 million. National Semiconductor is also based in Santa Clara.
 Last week, Advanced Micro Devices, Intel's main rival, revealed plans to lay off 500 people, or close to 3 percent of its work force. In addition, mobile semiconductor supplier Qualcomm has pulled back on hiring and research projects while complaining of a sudden reduction in orders from mobile device customers. 
 The recent downturn in sales further depresses a semiconductor market that had been suffering from a glut of memory chips and intense competition on price. 
 Shares of Intel dropped nearly 3 percent, to $13.52, in trading on Wednesday. After the release of the fourth-quarter forecast, Intel's shares fell more than 7 percent in after-hours trading. 
 On Oct. 14, Intel's chief executive, Paul S. Otellini, was vaguely cautious in his outlook, saying only that ''some customers'' were feeling pressure as a result of the financial crisis, while others were unaffected. 
 Intel tried to accommodate this uncertainty by providing a wider-than-usual range in its fourth-quarter revenue forecast. But chip sales dropped so precipitously that the company was forced to revise the numbers before a planned midquarter update.
 If Intel's fourth-quarter revenue comes in at the low end of its forecast, the 19 percent drop in sales would be the biggest since the fourth quarter of 2001, when sales dropped 20 percent.
 The warnings from the large semiconductor players mean that consumer electronics and computer companies will probably have a difficult holiday season. Best Buy, the leading electronics retailer, offered its own bleak forecast Wednesday, and its rival, Circuit City Stores, filed for bankruptcy protection Monday. 
 ''People don't have any money left to buy cool gadgets,'' said Trip Chowdhry, an analyst at Global Equities Research, adding that the housing debacle has drained consumer budgets. 
 In the next few months, Mr. Chowdhry expects a spate of job cuts in Silicon Valley.
 ''It will be almost across the board in the region,'' he said. ''Three percent to 10 percent of the people will get laid off.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (93%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (70%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (58%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%); APPLIED MATERIALS INC (85%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (85%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (73%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); QUALCOMM INC (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); AMAT (NASDAQ) (85%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (73%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (85%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (73%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008



566 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
A brief article about Rhode Island election results in the State by State roundup last Thursday suggested incorrectly that there was a cause-and-effect relationship between a statement by Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, a Democrat who was re-elected to a third term, and the financial crisis at the government-sponsored mortgage finance company Fannie Mae. Senator Reed, a long-time advocate of affordable housing, urged Fannie Mae in 2006 to do more to help middle- and low-income home buyers; the bank's decisions to invest in risky subprime mortgages, rather than Senator Reed's urging, led to the Fannie Mae crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (84%); SUBPRIME LENDING (84%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (83%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (83%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%)

PERSON: JACK REED (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



567 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW TEAM; Pg. 

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Laura D'Andrea Tyson

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of profiles of potential members of the administration. 
 Name:Laura D'Andrea Tyson
 Being considered for: A top economic post, possibly in a return tour as director of the National Economic Council.
 Would bring to the job: Experience in the Clinton administration, where she was chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, the first woman to hold the post, and then director of the economic council. Before coming to Washington in 1993, she was an academic economist with an expertise in trade policy, international competitiveness and high technology. 
 Is linked to Mr. Obama by: A late-in-the-campaign conversion to his cause, having supported Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton until she dropped out of the presidential race. Ms. Tyson quickly became a vigorous, vocal supporter of Mr. Obama, speaking out in television interviews and joining a small team that advised him on economic issues, often via conference calls as he crisscrossed the country. 
 In her own words: The economic expansion in the Bush years ''has been marked by the fact that employment growth has been extremely weak. It's marked by the fact that this is the first economic expansion on record -- on record -- where the family incomes of working families have declined in real terms.'' (In an interview on Fox News's ''Your World with Neil Cavuto.'')
 Used to work as: A professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, where she was an expert in trade and international competitiveness and director of research for the Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy. After leaving the Clinton administration in 1998, she was dean of Berkeley's Haas School of Business, from 1998 to 2001, and then served four years as dean of the London School of Business, where she founded the school's Center for Women in Business. 
 Carries as baggage: Surprisingly little. She came through four years of the Clinton administration without becoming the target of great public criticism or praise. 
 Biography includes: Born June 28, 1947, in New Jersey. ... graduated from Smith College summa cum laude and earned her Ph.D. in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1974. ... taught economics at Princeton for three years, then shifted to Berkeley in 1977, where she is now a professor at the Haas School of Business. ... married to the writer Erik Tarloff. ...they have one son. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday misstated the name of the school where Laura Tyson, a candidate for a top economic post in the Obama administration, served as dean for four years. It is the London Business School, not the London School of Business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); FAMILY (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); WRITERS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



568 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Small Business; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: On Main Street, Buckling Up For a Bumpy Ride

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
ALL eyes may be on the crumbling titans of Wall Street, but rarely has the future been so uncertain for millions of current and would-be owners of small businesses. 
 The unfolding financial crisis and the election of Barack Obama as president are remaking the landscape of small business -- a vast, sprawling area of economic activity that has been an engine of job creation and a bulwark of employment. 
 Small business includes a wide variety of enterprises like self-employed artists and writers; pint-sized flower shops and family roofing operations; real estate investors with dozens of rentals; and companies with hundreds of employees. 
 ''Small businesses are particularly fragile, and they fail at a pretty high rate,'' said Leonard Burman, director of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, a think tank in Washington. ''Even if they get credit, they may not have time'' to build themselves into sustainable businesses if consumer spending remains weak, he said. 
 In a survey in September of 4,200 small-business owners by MerchantCircle, a social networking Web site for small companies, four of five respondents said either that the federal bailout of financial institutions would not help them or that they were unsure whether it would.
 At the same time, the election intensified scrutiny of Mr. Obama's tax plans. He has pledged to raise taxes on households earning more than $250,000. He has also pledged to create a $5 billion Small Business Rescue Plan, similar to the Treasury bailout, to be run through the Small Business Administration, as well as to scrap capital gains taxes on investments in small businesses and provide them with a small tax credit on their health care costs.
 While more than 35 million taxpayers report small-business income of some kind, according to the Tax Policy Center, the Small Business Administration says there are only 6 million small businesses in the United States, a definition that includes companies with 500 or fewer employees.
 The consensus among many leading tax policy analysts who hew to a conventional definition of small business is that few, if any, of the 6 million small-business owners would see an increase in taxes under an Obama presidency. 
 ''It won't have much of an effect, if any, on them,'' Mr. Burman said. He added that only 1.4 percent of small-business owners made enough money to fall into the top two income brackets, where Mr. Obama has said he would increase taxes. 
 Tax issues aside, the economy has many small-business owners worried. Take Jennifer Neufeld, who with her husband, Jamyang Lodoe, opened an art gallery of Tibetan and Burmese paintings and antique furnishings in Rhinebeck, N.Y., in March. 
 ''I can't tell you how many people have come in the last couple of months and said that a year or two ago they would have bought a piece of art or furniture,'' said Ms. Neufeld, who ran a profitable advertising company in Moscow for more than a decade. ''But with the current situation, they're just not buying, or they're getting something token.'' 
 Ms. Neufeld said she knew of ''at least five small businesses'' in Rhinebeck, a town about 100 miles north of New York, that had closed or were on the verge of closing. ''Right now, I am way more concerned about how we're going to make money than what taxes I'm going to pay.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); PAINTING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); TAX INCREASES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



569 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Managers To Testify in Washington

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Hedge fund managers usually shun the spotlight. But five of them, billionaires all, are about to come under the glare on Capitol Hill. 
 The money managers -- Philip Falcone, Kenneth C. Griffin, John Paulson, James Simons and George Soros -- have been called by a House panel to discuss some of their trade secrets at a hearing on Thursday. 
 The topics are likely to include the managers' use of leverage -- the borrowed money that fuels investment returns on the way up but can be devastating on the way down -- and the managers' pay. 
 Also front and center will be the matter of oversight, one of the most contentious issues confronting the loosely regulated hedge fund industry. Regulation, or the lack of it, has been an issue since the 1990s, but it has come to the fore this year as questions have swirled about hedge funds' role in the financial crisis. 
 Legislators want to know what went wrong on Wall Street, where hedge funds often play a huge part. The nearly $2 trillion industry manages money for some of the largest pension funds and contributes to the twists and turns of the markets. Hedge fund traders are among the highest-paid workers in finance, commonly making millions, and sometimes billions, a year.
 The five managers to testify before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform were selected because they each earned more than $1 billion in 2007. They range from industry veterans like Mr. Soros, who is known for his liberal political views and donations, to traders like Mr. Paulson, who foresaw the problems in the subprime mortgage market and made billions betting against mortgage investments. 
 ''Some experts call them the shadow banking system because they operate almost entirely unregulated,'' said Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, the chairman of the committee. ''Very little is known about how they operate and the types of systemic risk they can generate.''
 As policy makers consider overhauling the rules that apply to mortgage lenders, bankers and investors, hedge funds may also face new requirements for the disclosure of their trading methods. The Federal Reserve and other regulatory agencies have been studying the effects of hedge funds on the market, and questions linger over what the government would do if a large hedge fund began to collapse. 
 ''On Capital Hill, there certainly is appetite for more hedge fund regulation,'' said Houman B. Shadab, a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, who will testify at the House hearing. ''It's not obvious to me that hedge funds caused this crisis, but they have been affected by it, there's no doubt about that.''
 Three of the hedge fund managers who are testifying are facing huge losses. Mr. Griffin, who started trading in the 1980s out of his Harvard dorm room, has two funds down more than 30 percent this year. His company, Citadel Investment Group, is viewed as a bellwether for the industry because it trades in most types of assets, but two of his funds are down more than the 20 percent that is the average loss among hedge funds, according to estimates from Hedge Fund Research, a firm in Chicago that tracks the industry.
 Mr. Falcone, a stock-picker who runs Harbinger Capital, is down after a disastrous September and October. 
 Mr. Simons is a former mathematics professor who runs Renaissance Technologies, a secretive trading operation in Long Island that makes bets based on computer models. One of Renaissance's institutional stock funds is down 14 percent this year. However, Renaissance marketed the fund as one that would beat the broader stock market, which it is doing.
 Hedge funds already follow some regulations. Funds that trade in commodities, for instance, have to disclose some holdings to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. And large hedge funds are required to publicly disclose substantial stock holdings through the Securities and Exchange Commission. Since September, hedge funds have also disclosed short sales to the S.E.C., but not to the public. 
 The industry's association, the Managed Funds Association, and a group of hedge funds met with regulators in October to discuss the effects of the crisis. The president of the hedge fund association is Richard H. Baker, a Republican who represented a district in Louisiana in the House of Representatives until earlier this year. For 12 years, Mr. Baker was chairman of the subcommittee on capital markets within the House Financial Services Committee.
 Mr. Baker will not be attending the hearing because he was so recently a member of Congress. But analysts said he would be heavily involved in the battle to come over hedge funds. 
 ''He was an early warner about Fannie and Freddie,'' said Robert Litan, vice president for research and policy at the Kauffman Foundation, an organization dedicated to the promotion of entrepreneurship. ''He'll say, 'Look, I called Fannie and Freddie correctly. I know a crisis when I see it.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (79%); PHILIP FALCONE (74%); HENRY WAXMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



570 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: For a Washington Job, Be Prepared to Tell All

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Want a top job in the Obama administration? Only pack rats need apply, preferably those not packing controversy. 
 A seven-page questionnaire being sent by the office of President-elect Barack Obama to those seeking cabinet and other high-ranking posts may be the most extensive -- some say invasive -- application ever. 
 The questionnaire includes 63 requests for personal and professional records, some covering applicants' spouses and grown children as well, that are forcing job-seekers to rummage from basements to attics, in shoe boxes, diaries and computer archives to document both their achievements and missteps. 
 Only the smallest details are excluded; traffic tickets carrying fines of less than $50 need not be reported, the application says. Applicants are asked whether they or anyone in their family owns a gun. They must include any e-mail that might embarrass the president-elect, along with any blog posts and links to their Facebook pages.
 The application also asks applicants to ''please list all aliases or 'handles' you have used to communicate on the Internet.'' 
 The vetting process for executive branch jobs has been onerous for decades, with each incoming administration erecting new barriers in an effort to avoid the mistakes of the past, or the controversies of the present. It is typically updated to reflect technological change (there was no Facebook the last time a new president came to town). 
 But Mr. Obama has elevated the vetting even beyond what might have been expected, especially when it comes to applicants' family members, in a reflection of his campaign rhetoric against lobbying and the back-scratching, self-serving ways of Washington. 
 ''President-elect Obama made a commitment to change the way Washington does business, and the vetting process exemplifies that,'' said Stephanie Cutter, chief spokeswoman for the Obama transition office. 
 Jobs with the mortgage-finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have served as lucrative incubators for Democratic and Republican administration officials. But those affiliations have become potentially toxic since the government seized both companies after years of financial irregularities that have stoked the economic crisis. 
 Not surprisingly, then, Question 18 of the Obama application asks whether ''you, your spouse or any member of your immediate family'' have been affiliated with Fannie, Freddie, American International Group, Washington Mutual and any other institution getting a government bailout. 
 Under ''Domestic Help,'' the questionnaire asks the immigration status of applicants' housekeepers, nannies, chauffeurs and yard-workers, and whether applicants have paid the required taxes for household employees. (Those questions reflect controversies that tripped up President Bill Clinton's first two nominees for attorney general in 1993.)
 ''Every transition is cumulative,'' said Michael Berman, a lawyer and lobbyist who worked in the transitions of both Mr. Clinton and President Jimmy Carter. After reviewing the Obama application, Mr. Berman added, ''I am very happy I am not seeking a job in the federal government.'' 
 A former Clinton White House official who insisted on anonymity said in an e-mail message, ''I believe it is considerably more detailed than we had to fill out in '93. Interesting that they want spouse information on everything -- means lots of folks are going to have to list the very prominent -- and controversial -- companies that their spouses work/lobby for.''
 The first question asks applicants not just for a resume, but for every resume and biographical statement issued by them or others for the past 10 years -- a likely safeguard against resume falsehoods, one Clinton administration veteran said.
 Most information must cover at least the past decade, including the names of anyone applicants lived with; a chronological list of activities for which applicants were paid; real estate and loans over $10,000, and their terms, for applicants and spouses; net worth statements submitted for loans, and organization memberships -- in particular, memberships in groups that have discriminated on the basis of race, sex, disability, ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation.
 There are no time limits for some information, including liens, tax audits, lawsuits, legal charges, bankruptcies or arrests. Applicants must report all businesses with which they and their spouses have been affiliated or in which they have had a financial stake of more than 5 percent. All gifts over $50 that they and their spouses have received from anyone other than close friends or relatives must be identified.
 Just in case the previous 62 questions do not ferret out any potential controversy, the 63rd is all-encompassing: ''Please provide any other information, including information about other members of your family, that could suggest a conflict of interest or be a possible source of embarrassment to you, your family, or the president-elect.'' 
 The answer could duplicate the response to Question 8: ''Briefly describe the most controversial matters you have been involved with during the course of your career.''
 For those who clear all the hurdles, the reward could be the job they wanted. But first there will be more forms, for security and ethics clearances from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of Government Ethics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two of the 63 requests for personal and professional records from a questionnaire for applicants to the Obama administration. Some requests cover applicants' spouses and grown children. (pg.A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LOBBYING (86%); FAMILY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BAILOUTS (66%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (63%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



571 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Effort Shifting Focus To Consumers

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department on Wednesday officially abandoned the original strategy behind its $700 billion effort to rescue the financial system, as administration officials acknowledged that banks and financial institutions were as unwilling as ever to lend to consumers.
 But with a little more than two months left before President Bush leaves office, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. is hoping to put in place a major new lending program that would be run by the Federal Reserve and aimed at unlocking the frozen consumer credit market. 
 The program, still in the planning stages, would for the first time use bailout funds specifically to help consumers instead of banks, savings and loans and Wall Street firms. 
 Treasury officials said they hoped to invest about $50 billion from the bailout fund into the new loan facility, with the aim of helping companies that issue credit cards, make student loans and finance car purchases. 
 As envisioned, the Treasury would put up about 5 percent of the money that a company would use for lending and private investors would put up perhaps 20 times that much by buying bonds issued by the new program.
 Despite the mind-boggling amount of money that Congress has authorized the Treasury to spend -- $350 billion immediately, and another $350 billion that Congress would approve under a fast-track procedure -- Mr. Paulson is running short of money and time.
 The news that the government will not buy soured mortgage assets, along with a string of poor corporate earnings, disheartened investors on Wednesday, sending the markets down for a third straight day this week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 411.30 points, or 4.7 percent, to close at 8,282.66. 
 The Treasury has already committed about $290 billion. It has allocated $125 billion to the nation's nine biggest banks and investment banks; another $125 billion for publicly traded regional banks; and $40 billion to expand the existing bailout of American International Group, the insurance conglomerate that collapsed in September.
 Mr. Paulson alluded to the consumer credit plan vaguely in a news conference on Wednesday, and some Fed officials cautioned that they had seen few details. But Treasury officials said such a plan would give them the biggest bang for the buck and might be enacted within several weeks.
 Mr. Paulson conceded that he had scrapped the plan he originally sold to Congress in September, which was to have the Treasury Department buy hundreds of billions of dollars worth of illiquid mortgage-backed securities in order to free up banks to resume normal lending.
 The program is still called the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, but it will not buy troubled assets. ''Our assessment at this time is that this is not the most effective way to use TARP funds,'' Mr. Paulson said. 
 Instead, Treasury will step up its program of injecting capital directly into banks and, for the first time, expand it to include financial companies that are not federally regulated banks or thrifts.
 Mr. Paulson made it clear he would not use Treasury money to help bail out the automobile industry, rebuffing pleas from General Motors, Ford and Chrysler as well as from top House and Senate Democrats.
 But Mr. Paulson left open the prospect of providing backdoor support to the car companies by offering to recapitalize nonbank financial companies like GE Capital and CIT Financial, and the financing subsidiaries of Ford, Chrysler and G.M.
 House Democrats are already drafting legislation that would provide Detroit's Big Three with an additional $25 billion, on top of $25 billion in low-interest loans that are supposed to be used for retooling factories for energy-efficient cars. 
 ''The consequences of a collapse of the American automobile industry would be particularly troublesome,'' said Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. Mr. Frank said the assistance would come with strict conditions aimed at protecting taxpayers. 
 Some Republican lawmakers have already objected, saying the effort would amount to throwing good money after bad. But the White House on Wednesday left the door open to a legislative compromise with Congress.
 ''I know the automakers are important to the United States,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''We care about the automobile industry.'' But he cautioned that ''my focus is on the financial sector -- getting credit going, getting lending going.'' 
 White House and Treasury officials have been devising policy on the fly for months now, as what began as a panic over losses on subprime mortgages broadened into a crisis that wreaked havoc on Wall Street, at major commercial banks and in the broader economy itself.
 In September, Mr. Paulson went to Congress and urgently pressed for authority to spend as much as $700 billion to unclog the nation's financial pipelines by buying up unsellable securities from banks and other financial institutions.
 But by the time Congress approved the bailout law in early October, Mr. Paulson and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, were already shifting to a strategy he had actually opposed: buying equity stakes directly in American banks, a move that was reminiscent of European-style nationalization.
 As recently as a few days ago, Treasury officials insisted that they still intended to buy up the troubled assets. But by late October, it had become clear that Plan A had become little more than a sideshow.
 ''Illiquid assets looked like the way to go,'' Mr. Paulson told reporters at a news conference on Wednesday. But as economic and financial conditions declined so rapidly, he said, that he had to change gears. ''I will never apologize for changing the approach and the strategy when the facts change,'' he said. 
 The change in strategy has had only limited impact on the frozen credit markets. The biggest improvement has been in the willingness of banks to lend to each other, a change that largely caused by the willingness of both the United States and European governments to guarantee bank deposits and interbank loans. 
 But the market for commercial debt backed by consumer and business loans has remained at a near standstill since Lehman Brothers, one of Wall Street's leading investment banks, collapsed in September. 
 Borrowing costs for credit card issuers are at least five percentage points higher than they were before the credit crisis began. Financing costs for automobile lenders are even higher. Even student loans that are guaranteed by the federal government have been difficult to finance.
 ''You have a market that is frozen,'' said Alex Roever, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase.
 To stretch his resources, Mr. Paulson told reporters he was examining ideas to have private investors contribute capital alongside Treasury. 
 Mr. Paulson also made it clear he did not want to use bailout money to refinance the mortgages of homeowners who are in danger of losing their homes to foreclosure. Democratic lawmakers and the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Sheila C. Bair, have been calling for the Treasury to spend $40 billion in a broad mortgage refinancing program.
 As envisioned by Treasury officials, the Federal Reserve would set up a new special-purpose lending entity, which would lend cash to investors or companies that put up collateral in the form of consumer loans. The Fed might lend up to 80 percent of the value of those loans, providing a cushion for taxpayers against losses.
 The Treasury would contribute 5 percent to 10 percent of the money to finance the lending. But the Fed would raise most of the money by selling what is known as nonrecourse commercial paper to investors. 
 Treasury officials said the plan would allow them to leverage the government's money by as much as 20 to 1, meaning that the Treasury would provide 5 percent of the money and investors would provide 95 percent. Using $50 billion in money from the government rescue program, they said, could thus underwrite $1 trillion worth of lending for consumer loans.
 Such an arrangement would bear a similarity to exactly the highly leveraged, and eventually disastrous, special-investment vehicles that banks like Citigroup created in countless numbers to hold, among other things, securities backed by subprime mortgages. 
 Although the Treasury would contribute only a small share of the money for such a program, analysts said the plan would only overcome investor fears if the Treasury or the Federal Reserve provided some kind of backstop against losses. If that were to be the case, taxpayers would be indirectly liable for the entire volume of lending. 
 Fed officials appeared to be taken aback by Mr. Paulson's public reference to the idea, and cautioned that it was still in early development.
 ''Both the structure and the parameters are under discussion and development,'' said Michele A. Smith, a spokeswoman for the Fed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., in Washington on Wednesday, hopes to make it easier for consumers to borrow money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BONDS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); BOND ISSUES (72%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



572 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: An English Lesson

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FREEDLAND. 
Jonathan Freedland is an editorial page columnist for The Guardian of London.

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 REPUBLICANS looking for a friendly shoulder to cry on in the coming months could do worse than look up their ideological cousins across the Atlantic. For the Conservative Party in Britain knows what it feels like to be wiped out in a watershed election by a charismatic opponent whose victory brings jubilant scenes on the streets and heady talk of a new dawn. 
 For the Tories, the cataclysm came 11 years ago when Tony Blair buried them in a landslide. Since then, they have suffered two more general election defeats, enduring their longest spell in the parliamentary wilderness since the mid-19th century. 
 What might panicked Republicans learn from the Tory experience? That apparently the first response to electoral disaster is denial. In the immediate aftermath of 1997, a few brave Tory souls dared venture that the party would have to undergo radical change, that it had to inch toward the center and demonstrate that it was not as out of touch as the critics alleged.
 The party's new leader, William Hague, duly tried to prove his credentials as a modern chap by wearing a baseball cap -- a curious definition of modernity, admittedly, but let that stand as evidence of how passe the Tories circa 1997 seemed -- and by attending the Notting Hill Carnival, a big event for black Londoners. It was ''compassionate conservatism,'' British-style. 
 But when the polls failed to budge, the brief flirtation with modernizing moderation ended. Under pressure from the Tory right in Parliament and the press, Mr. Hague adopted a ''core vote strategy,'' aimed chiefly at enthusing the Conservative base. He pressed the right's favorite button, hostility to the European Union -- the British equivalent of opposition to abortion -- warning that Labor would abandon the pound in favor of the euro. The response was an electoral walloping nearly as brutal as the one the Tories had suffered four years earlier. 
 Now the Conservatives faced a clear choice. In seeking Mr. Hague's replacement, they could pick one of those who had first called for a change in direction, like former defense secretary Michael Portillo, who offered a William Weld-style blend of fiscal conservatism and social liberalism and urged the party to abandon the culture wars and rediscover tolerance as a conservative virtue. Or they could retreat further into the comfort zone, electing a leader with no following in the country but deemed sufficiently hawkish on Europe. 
 They chose retreat, heeding Britain's near-equivalents of Rush Limbaugh and anointing one Iain Duncan Smith. He had none of Sarah Palin's stardust, but the Tory base saw him the way hard-core Republicans now see the Alaska governor -- as a true believer. Mr. Blair brushed him away like a crumb on his lapel. 
 After two years of plunging poll numbers, Mr. Duncan Smith was toppled in an internal coup and replaced by Michael Howard who, a la Mitt Romney, promised economic competence, soundness on the right's pet issues and an ability to unite the fractious ranks of British conservatism. This approach did for him what it did for Mr. Romney in the Republican primaries: in the summer of 2005, Mr. Howard led the party to its third national defeat in eight years. 
 Only then, staring oblivion in the face, did the slow stirrings of recovery begin. A senior Conservative official, Theresa May, had already warned that the Tories had to shed their image as ''the nasty party'' with few women or members of ethnic minorities in Parliament. Now, at last, that message began to be heard. A younger, fresher face emerged and overtook more established rivals for the leadership: David Cameron. 
 Mr. Cameron's candidacy was built on a simple premise: modernize or die. He told the Tories they had to look as if they actually liked the country they sought to govern, rather than wishing they could turn back time. They could not hope to form a winning coalition without appealing to the Britons whom Mr. Blair had made his own: women, suburbanites, the highly educated. Relying on angry old white men was never going to get the Conservatives much beyond 33 percent. 
 To that end, Mr. Cameron set about decontaminating the Tory brand. Central to that mission were forays into two areas of political terrain previously deemed forbidden zones. First, he signaled comfort with gay rights, ditching the party's previous support for laws restricting sexual equality. Second, he championed environmentalism. He may have endured news media mockery when he took a dogsled ride to inspect a Norwegian glacier in 2006, but it did the trick, confirming that the Tories were changing. 
 Mr. Cameron's efforts have paid off: recent polls suggest a Conservative victory at the next election. Of course, the lessons of one society can never fully apply to another. But the Tory experience suggests that a defeated party of the right has to move toward the center, abandon divisive social issues and elect a leader who looks as if he or she actually belongs in the 21st century. With Arnold Schwarzenegger ineligible for the presidency and no other accommodating figure on the horizon, the Republicans might have a bumpy decade ahead. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRAY318) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (59%); TONY BLAIR (57%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) ALASKA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



573 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: PATERSON SEEKS BUDGET SAVINGS OF $5.2 BILLION

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Nicholas Confessore, Jeremy W. Peters and Fernanda Santos contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
State aid to schools and hospitals would be cut sharply in the next four months and thousands of state workers would be asked to defer five days of pay under an emergency deficit reduction plan unveiled by Gov. David A. Paterson on Wednesday. 
 The plan calls for reducing state spending, with some revenue increases, to save $2 billion by April, and $5.2 billion over the next 16 months. Health care and education, the two largest pieces of the $121 billion budget, would bear the brunt of the reductions as the state tries to contain a deepening fiscal crisis. 
 Even if the Legislature were to approve Mr. Paterson's plan at a special session next week, the state would still face an $8.8 billion shortfall for the fiscal year that begins on April 1. And support for the cuts in the Legislature is far from certain, particularly among Republicans who lead the Senate and staunchly defend state aid to education. 
 Little was spared as Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, proposed the first midyear cuts in public school aid since the early 1990s. He said he would ask labor unions to reopen previously negotiated contracts and agree to forgo 3-percent raises next year for state workers -- the kind of drastic step New York City took in the fiscal crisis of the 1970s. 
 He also said he would seek tuition increases at state universities, starting with a $300 rise in the spring semester. And he proposed reducing Medicaid reimbursements sharply and closing half a dozen juvenile detention centers around the state, which he said were underused. 
 While he avoided proposing across-the-board tax increases, the governor said he wanted to raise taxes on health insurers, a cost likely to be passed on to the public, and to extend the 5-cent deposit now charged for soda and beer to bottled water. 
 ''This is the worst economic crisis in this country since the Great Depression,'' he said at a news conference in New York City on Wednesday morning. ''That's not an alarming statement, as it may have been when I said it in July. It's now real.''
 The Senate Republicans have struck close alliances with labor unions and promised to ward off cuts to education -- but at the same time they say they will not accept tax increases. Suburban school aid is particularly important to Senator Dean G. Skelos, the majority leader and a Long Island Republican. 
 ''Education aid cuts, midyear, are unfair,'' Mr. Skelos said Wednesday night, adding: ''I don't see anything creative in this budget. It's just hack away, hack away.''
 He did not offer any alternative cuts, instead calling on the governor to release his plan for next year's budget now, even though Mr. Paterson already plans to release it on Dec. 16, more than a month ahead of schedule.
 ''These important decisions about New York's future cannot be made in a vacuum,'' Mr. Skelos said.
 Senator Thomas W. Libous, a Binghamton Republican and the deputy majority leader, said in an interview that taking ''money away that's already been given to people, already been put in their budgets'' was ''not fair.''
 Last week's election results are likely to complicate the budget negotiations. Democrats captured 32 of 62 seats in the Senate, winning a majority for the first time in more than four decades. Three Democrats, however, have refused to back the current minority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, to become the new majority leader, leaving the Democratic caucus in disarray. 
 The Legislature must come up with something, because the state faces a $1.5 billion deficit in the budget for the 2009 fiscal year, which ends on March 31, and a $12.5 billion deficit for the 2010 fiscal year. State law requires that the budget be balanced. 
 While the catalyst for the current crisis has been the collapse of the financial industry, the state's main source of tax revenue, Mr. Paterson said that years of excessive spending had left the state's budget in need of drastic streamlining. 
 Wall Street has ''bailed us out for a number of years,'' the governor said, but ''now the well has run dry.''
 The governor said he would not seek layoffs, but labor leaders have expressed reluctance to agree to reopen contracts negotiated on behalf of the state's roughly 200,000 workers. Mr. Paterson could resort to job cuts if the unions do not back down, and he would say only that he was not seeking layoffs right now. 
 The governor is also proposing to require state retirees to pay far more for health insurance. The state now pays 90 percent of their premiums; that could fall as low as 50 percent under the plan. 
 In the pay deferral plan, state employees would work five days without pay this fiscal year; they would get the money when they retire, at their future pay levels.
 Almost every interest group touched by the cuts weighed in with outrage. 
 ''Governor Paterson's proposal is an assault on services at every level and will unnecessarily cause great harm,'' said Danny Donohue, the president of the state's Civil Service Employees Association. Billy Easton, the executive director of the Alliance for Quality Education, an advocacy group, said, ''This is money that is going into classrooms today that the governor wants to take out tomorrow.'' 
 And Daniel Sisto, the president of the Healthcare Association of New York State, a statewide trade group for hospitals, said in an interview that he was ''stunned by the magnitude of what they're trying to do.''
 ''This will be the third time they've cut health care this year and we have another budget round coming in December,'' Mr. Sisto said. ''We're doing a budget, it seems, for every season.''
 The governor argued that New York's spending was still high in many areas. Many cuts would reduce growth in spending, rather than actually reduce spending from last year. But many wealthier school districts would see actual cuts in state aid, while most poorer districts would get smaller increases than anticipated.
 ''We think many of the advocates may not like these cuts, but they can't say these are beyond the parameters of what would be reasonable to cut at this time, with this deficit,'' Mr. Paterson said. 
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver of New York, the Legislature's top Democrat, said in a statement that Mr. Paterson had put forward ''a bold plan'' that ''recognizes the painful reality that this crisis is unlike any we have faced in our adult lives and will require deep cuts.''
 Under the governor's plan, $585 million would be cut from school aid in the current fiscal year and another $844 million next year. The plan would reduce aid to school districts across the state and also reduce spending on math and science grants, libraries, arts grants and special teacher mentoring programs. 
 Students at the State University and the City University of New York would see tuition increase $300 in the spring session and $600 next year. Those increases would largely offset cuts of $348 million in state aid to the universities over this and next year.
 Medicaid and other health care programs would be cut by $572 million this year and $1.2 billion next year under the governor's plan. He is proposing to reduce the amount the state reimburses health care providers for various procedures, and also to eliminate the annual inflation adjustment to Medicaid reimbursements. 
 Aid to New York City would also be cut by $41 million this year, to $205 million. That cut comes as the city is already dealing with its own budget crisis. 
 ''We have already taken cuts in education, compared to other counties,''Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told reporters at an event in Queens. ''I want to make sure we're not penalized for having done the right thing.'' 
 The governor's plan did get some good reviews. 
 Kenneth Adams, chief executive of the Business Council of New York State, said Mr. Paterson ''presented a plan that makes difficult but necessary choices to reduce state spending to close an unprecedented budget gap that gets worse by the day.'' He added, ''The state simply cannot tax its way out of this crisis.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article and headlines on Thursday about Gov. David A. Paterson's emergency plan to cut the state budget deficit misstated, in some editions, the methods by which he hopes to achieve $5.2 billion in savings over the next 16 months. Most savings will come from spending cuts, with some from revenue increases; the savings will not come through cuts alone. A picture caption in some editions also misstated the methods by which he plans to save $2 billion in the current fiscal year. Those savings will also come mostly from cuts and some revenue increases, not entirely from cuts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A coalition of nonprofit groups, at New York City Hall, urged Albany on Wednesday to avoid budget cuts that hurt the poor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. David A. Paterson, in New York City, announcing his emergency spending reduction plan, with the state budget director, Laura L. Anglin. The plan would cut spending $2 billion by April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A34) CHART: PATERSON'S BALANCING ACT: Gov. David A. Paterson has called for budget cuts and revenue increases of $2 billion in the current fiscal year and $3.2 billion next year, most of the savings from school aid and Medicaid. Most changes require legislative approval or new union negotiations. (Source: Office of the Governor) (pg.A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (87%); MEDICAID (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INSURANCE (72%); BOTTLED WATER (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); TAX INCREASES (68%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (64%); SUBURBS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



574 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosure Prevention Lite

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. was notably absent from the rollout on Tuesday of the Bush administration's newest foreclosure prevention plan. Maybe he was finally too embarrassed to stand before the American people yet again and offer yet another too-little, too-late solution.
 He did send his protege, the recently appointed bailout czar, Neel Kashkari, who dutifully mouthed the phrases that Mr. Paulson has used for a year now to describe the foreclosure crisis (''a necessary correction'') and to justify the administration's pathetic responses (''there is no silver bullet''). 
 The nation's banks and other financial firms also are undergoing a necessary correction for which there is no silver bullet. But that hasn't stopped Mr. Paulson from intervening forcefully -- using taxpayer dollars -- on behalf of an ever-expanding cast of bailout recipients. The tight fist is reserved for homeowners.
 That is a huge policy error. The whole point of the bailouts is to stabilize the financial system. But the system will not stabilize until house prices stabilize, and house prices will not stabilize until the government finds a way to stanch foreclosures on a large scale.
 The Bush administration's new plan applies to delinquent loans controlled by the government-run mortgage companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. They will use a fast-track process to lower troubled borrowers' monthly payments to an affordable level, either through a longer repayment term, a lower interest rate or deferral of payment on part of the principle.
 The biggest problem with the plan is that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac control relatively few of the types of loans that have driven defaults to crisis proportions. Even if the companies successfully restructured all of their troubled loans, more than three million Americans still stand to lose their homes this year and next. As long as homes are being lost by the millions, house prices will continue to drop, making Americans poorer, the financial system shakier and the economy weaker. 
 Administration officials have said that they hope other lenders will emulate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The notion that the government might lead by example is an improvement over the administration's previous tack -- merely urging the mortgage industry to act voluntarily to stop foreclosures. But it's still pie in the sky. 
 Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America have announced stepped up anti-foreclosure efforts recently. But if history is any indication, their efforts will fall short. That's because the banks do not directly control most of the loans that require restructuring; rather, the loans have been parceled out in pieces to various investors. The difficulty of getting the often-conflicting parties to agree to modified loan terms has derailed all previous attempts to stem mass foreclosures. 
 Not only has the government refused to compel the mortgage industry to act, but it has not provided strong incentives for them to do so. As if in tacit acknowledgement that the administration has not gone far enough, a Treasury spokeswoman said on Tuesday that the latest plan is not necessarily the last. Meanwhile, the damage is being done house by house, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood. 
 The half measures have to stop. 
 As a candidate, President-elect Barack Obama favored amending the law so bankrupt homeowners could have their mortgages revised in court, an avenue currently denied them. The next Congress must move forward on the bankruptcy amendment first thing in January. 
 Hundreds of thousands of homeowners would qualify for bankruptcy, and hundreds of thousands more would be helped if lenders and investors opted to restructure bad loans rather than having to go to court. Better still, bankruptcy restructurings would cost the taxpayers nothing and concentrate the pain on those responsible: borrowers who took on more debt than they could handle, and lenders who made bad loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



575 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Obama And Our Schools

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama and his aides are sending signals that education may be on the back burner at the beginning of the new administration. He ranked it fifth among his priorities, and if it is being downplayed, that's a mistake.
 We can't meaningfully address poverty or grow the economy as long as urban schools are failing. Mr. Obama talks boldly about starting new high-tech green industries, but where will the workers come from unless students reliably learn science and math? 
 The United States is the only country in the industrialized world where children are less likely to graduate from high school than their parents were, according to a new study by the Education Trust, an advocacy group based in Washington.
 The most effective anti-poverty program we could devise for the long run would have less to do with income redistribution than with ensuring that poor kids get a first-rate education, from preschool on. One recent study found that if American students did as well as those in several Asian countries in math and science, our economy would grow 20 percent faster.
 So let's break for a quiz: Quick, what's the source of America's greatness?
 Is it a tradition of market-friendly capitalism? The diligence of its people? The cornucopia of natural resources? Great presidents?
 No, a fair amount of evidence suggests that the crucial factor is our school system -- which, for most of our history, was the best in the world but has foundered over the last few decades. The message for Mr. Obama is that improving schools must be on the front burner.
 One of the most important books of the year is ''The Race Between Education and Technology,'' by two Harvard economists, Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz. They argue that the distinguishing feature of America for most of our history has been our global lead in education.
 By the mid-1800s, most American states provided a free grade-school education to the vast majority of white children. In contrast, only 2 percent of British 14-year-olds were enrolled in school in 1870.
 At the beginning of the 1900s, Americans embraced high schools, and by the 1930s, a majority of American children attended high school. In contrast, as late as 1957, only 9 percent of British 17-year-olds were enrolled in school.
 Then the United States -- with help from President Franklin Roosevelt -- pushed for mass education at the college level, and by 1970, half of American students were attending a university, at least briefly. We were far ahead of the rest of the world.
 Professors Goldin and Katz crunch the data and conclude that America's edge in mass education was the crucial competitive advantage that allowed the United States to build wealth while reducing income inequality. For most of the 20th century, America prospered at the same time that the gap between the rich and poor diminished.
 Then in the 1970s, the United States education system began to stagnate, with high-school graduation rates stuck at about three-quarters of all students. Probably as a result, income inequality increased again.
 Meanwhile, the rest of the world invested heavily in education and caught up with, and in some cases surpassed, us. As Fareed Zakaria notes in his terrific book, ''The Post-American World,'' the problem with American education is not the good schools. White suburban schools still offer an excellent education, comparable to those in Singapore, which may have the best education system in the world.
 Rather, the central problem is our bad schools. ''Lots of kids are being left behind,'' Professor Goldin said, adding: ''Investing in human capital is still a very good deal. Returns are very high.''
 There's still a vigorous debate about how to improve education, but recent empirical research is giving us a much better sense of what works. A study by the Hamilton Project, a public policy group at the Brookings Institution, outlines several steps to boost weak schools: end rigid requirements for teacher certification that impede hiring, make tenure more difficult to get so that ineffective teachers can be weeded out after three years on the job and award hefty bonuses to good teachers willing to teach in low-income areas. If we want outstanding, inspiring teachers in difficult classrooms, we're going to have to pay much more -- and it would be a bargain.
 No family underscores the power of education more than Mr. Obama's. His father began as a goat-herd in a remote village in Kenya, but his studies carried him to the University of Hawaii. And Mr. Obama himself has ridden the education escalator to the White House.
 So Mr. Obama, let's give others the chance to board the escalator that you and your father enjoyed. Let's pick up where we left off in the 1970s and mount a national campaign to make high-school graduation truly universal, and to make a college education routine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); MATHEMATICS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



576 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Finds Wrongdoing At Employment Agencies

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
About half of the employment agencies licensed in New York City have used illegal or deceptive practices, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in an announcement on Wednesday. In the most egregious cases, agencies have systematically swindled the city's most vulnerable job seekers, the mayor said. 
 After an 18-month investigation, which included a review of the more than 330 licensed agencies in the city and undercover inspections by agents with video cameras, the Department of Consumer Affairs shut down three companies, collected $160,000 in fines and delivered $80,000 in restitution to clients. Many of the clients were immigrants looking for restaurant, domestic and manual-labor jobs as a ''first foothold in the work force,'' the mayor said. 
 The most common violations included requiring non-English speakers to sign contracts in English, demanding illegal upfront payments and withholding refunds from clients who did not receive jobs. 
 The agencies have long acted with impunity, Mr. Bloomberg said, because many of the victims were unaware of their rights or were illegal immigrants afraid to report violations, even though city policy guarantees that people who step forward will not be asked about their status or reported to immigration authorities.
 ''We simply aren't going to stand for this kind of conduct,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference at York College in Jamaica, Queens. 
 ''Protecting workers with low incomes is a key part of our fight against poverty,'' he said, adding that it was essential to ensure that ''New York is a city of opportunity,'' especially as the economic downturn made it harder to find work.
 Jonathan Mintz, the city's consumer affairs commissioner, said the violations ranged from honest mistakes by agencies that were unfamiliar with the rules to systematic bilking of clients. The city has reached settlements with 159 agencies and is continuing undercover investigations to make sure they abide by the rules. Of the remaining agencies, some have not responded to the city's inquiries, and others are still being reviewed. 
 One Brooklyn agency, Dalia, has been caught violating its settlement agreement on a video recording by an undercover investigator posing as a new immigrant from Colombia.
 The video shows the woman speaking in Spanish with the agency owner and the employees. She is asked to pay $40 and then is given a contract in English. When she asks them to tell her in Spanish what it says, an agency worker laughs and tells her, ''It's nothing bad.'' 
 ''If you trust us, we trust in you,'' the worker says. ''Everybody wants to win.'' 
 The city is now seeking the revocation of the agency's license. 
 Many agencies charge job seekers a fee up front, then ask them to come back the next day, Mr. Mintz said. Then they tell the job seeker that no job has materialized and refuse to pay the money back.
 ''Forty dollars when you can't put a meal on the table is a lot of money,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 Mr. Mintz said job seekers should familiarize themselves with the rules, which are posted on the department's Web site in English, Spanish, Russian, Hindi, Haitian Creole, Chinese, Bengali and Korean. First, they should call 311 or check online to make sure the agency is licensed. And they should keep receipts and insist on seeing a contract in their own language, he said. 
 Agencies may charge fees in advance only for certain types of work, including domestic, household, agricultural, skilled industrial and mechanic jobs, and that money should be applied toward the placement fees that the client pays after getting a job. Placement fees cannot exceed the maximum allowed by law, which varies depending on the type of job and salary. 
 Agencies also may not refer job seekers to jobs that pay less than minimum wage or do not pay overtime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



577 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Major Indexes Fall Sharply as Economic Uncertainty Spurs Fear

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Jad Mouawad contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Shares on Wall Street tumbled more than 4 percent on Wednesday as frightened investors wondered how long the economic slowdown would last, how deep it would cut and whether Washington could do anything to stop the bleeding.
 Financial markets compounded their early losses in afternoon trading, ending down for a third consecutive day. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 411.30 points, or 4.7 percent, to close at 8,282.66, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 46.65 points, or 5.2 percent, to close at 852.30. The index was down nearly 9 percent for the week.
 The Nasdaq composite index closed at 1,499.21 points, finishing below 1,500 for the first time in five years, after falling 81.69 points, or 5.2 percent. Shares of Google closed below $300 for the first time since 2005, at $291. 
 ''It's just a downward spiral caused by fear,'' said Richard Sparks, senior equity analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''We've got bad news everywhere.''
 Wall Street was looking to Washington for guidance and reassurance, and investors did not like what they saw, analysts said. 
 ''Wall Street is increasingly taking its cues from D.C.,'' Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com, said in an e-mail message. ''Policy makers are deciding who survives and who doesn't.''
 The financial markets had been trading down all morning but began a sharp slide just before Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. appeared at a news conference to discuss the $700 billion financial bailout package. Mr. Paulson said those government assets would not be used to buy troubled securities, as originally planned, but would instead go to buying stock in banks and infusing money into other financial institutions.
 Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's Equity Research, said investors, hungry for a steady, deliberate recovery plan, were not happy.
 ''I think that in some ways it's investors who are disappointed with Washington and think that Paulson has become a retailer engaged in a bait and switch,'' Mr. Stovall said. ''Wall Street is not that close to Broadway, but I think Wall Streeters feel better when a scenario is choreographed well.''
 Oil prices extended their decline, falling more than 5 percent, to settle at $56.16 a barrel, the lowest level since March 2007.
 Wednesday began with more troubling news from the retail sector. Best Buy said sales at its stores open at least a year could decline 5 to 15 percent during the four months remaining in its fiscal year, from the comparable period in 2007. Best Buy lowered its earnings expectations to $2.30 to $2.90 a share from an earlier prediction of $3.25 to $3.40 a share. Its stock closed down 8 percent, or $1.91, at $21.97 a share.
 The dour outlook from Best Buy was the latest jolt from the retail industry, coming days after its rival, Circuit City, filed for bankruptcy protection. Analysts said they expected the bleeding to continue through the holiday season.
 ''We're not done,'' said Stacey Widlitz, a retail analyst at Pali Research. ''This is just the beginning. Retailers are saying they've never seen this kind of shift in consumer behavior in this short a period of time.''
 Peter Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital, said the retail numbers were evidence that America's years-long spending bender had ended. He said the bankruptcy filing of Circuit City, which remains operating, helped to signal a permanent shift in the service economy and said other companies would fail before the economic crisis abated.
 ''The old expression, 'Shop till you drop' -- we did it,'' he said.
 Shares in General Motors and Ford Motor rebounded Wednesday after lawmakers in Washington called for a lame-duck session to address the imperiled auto industry. Recent financial reports show Ford and G.M. running out of cash as their sales fall. Congressional leaders called for emergency legislation to keep them from filing for bankruptcy.
 G.M. gained 16 cents, to close at $3.08 a share, and Ford rose 4 cents, to $1.84 a share. They were among the only companies to post a gain on Wednesday. 
 The drop in oil prices came as the International Energy Agency, a leading oil forecaster, suggested that oil consumption was falling faster than expected because of the global economic slump. 
 The slump means oil prices could easily fall to $50 a barrel, oil specialists said, as consumers cut their spending in response to the economic slowdown. 
 These concerns led the president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Chakib Khelil, to repeat Wednesday that the oil cartel could decide once more to trim its supplies when it meets next month. He hinted that the group might even decide to reduce its production sooner if prices kept sliding.
 The price of gold fell $19.40, to $712.30 an ounce, and commodity prices, including coffee, soybeans and silver, were also lower on falling demand.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year bill rose 26/32, to 102 28/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.65 percent from 3.74 percent late Monday. The bond market was closed Tuesday.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and 10-year notes: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stocks fell for the third consecutive day as Wall Street looked toWashington for guidance and reassurance, and investors did not like what they saw, analysts said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press)
Bloomberg
 10-Year Treasury Notes: High yield in quarterly refunding auction.(Source: Treasury Department) Charts detail bar and line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); RETAILERS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



578 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: What Should the G.O.P. Do Now?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''G.O.P. Dog Days?,'' by William Kristol (column, Nov. 10):
 Can Republicans come back? Can they engineer a Gingrichian takeover, or a Reaganite rebound? Can a sufficiently telegenic Republican find a sufficiently cute puppy?
 The real questions are these: Are conservatives interested in making a contribution to the next phase of American history, or will they continue to conduct politics as a team sport, in which winning is the only thing? 
 Will beating Barack Obama in 2012 be their only goal, or will the welfare of the nation and its people matter? When Mr. Obama reaches across the aisle, as he will, will there be anyone home?
 And will William Kristol and the rest of the conservative elite turn their considerable intellects toward serious policy matters, or have they become so habituated to spin that they just can't stop? 
 David Berman New York, Nov. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol repeats the new conservative talking point that in spite of the election, ''it is still a center-right country.'' The purpose of doing this seems to be to keep the Obama administration from pursuing a bold progressive agenda.
 I don't think that we can say with such certainty that the American people are of the conservative persuasion any longer. The recent administration has discredited right-wing ideas with everything from a neocon foreign policy that resulted in the mess in Iraq to the trickle-down economics that has brought us to the brink of financial disaster.
 At this point in time, I believe that the people are post-ideological, neither on the right nor the left. If as president, Barack Obama pursues bold progressive policies that work, only then will the country move to the left.
 Tony Korec Medford, N.Y., Nov. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol argues that Republican leaders should take comfort in exit polls suggesting ''a partisan shift but no ideological realignment.'' That is, the polls suggest that while voters moved to Democratic candidates, the voters did not move to the left. 
 Mr. Kristol misses the point. There has indeed been an ideological realignment, but it has been at the party level, not the voter level. The Republican Party ideologically realigned to the right, and when the Republican Party made this shift, it moved away from many voters.
 Alan Rutkin Great Neck, N.Y., Nov. 11, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 William Kristol asserts correctly that Barack Obama's Fido gambit showed his human warmth and bonded him to dog lovers, the allergic and compassionate saviors of mutts in shelters.
 In addition and perhaps more deeply, Mr. Obama opened the window to a functional and very close family that believes in teaching that work leads to rewards, and showed an example to every parent who wrestles with the proper balance of indulgence and requirements. Such a simple situation that reveals so much!
 Budd N. Shenkin Berkeley, Calif., Nov. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Once-United G.O.P. Emerges, in Identity Crisis'' (news analysis, Nov. 6):
 The Republican Party has a fundamental (or, one might say, ''fundamentalist'') problem. 
 The party has made a Faustian bargain by its zealous courtship of evangelicals to gain their political support. The bargain may have gained the election of the departing incumbent and others, but like most such bargains, it has extracted a high price. 
 Part of the price has been to give the religious right a grip on party machinery that prevents many talented Republicans of different beliefs from even seeking office. At the same time, it has fostered the advancement of some whose most conspicuous qualification is a willingness to promote the approved theology. 
 The net effect has been a reduced and diluted talent pool or, in the popular phrase, a ''dumbing down'' of the party, as well as a diversion from its historic principles.
 We urgently need a reorientation in which evangelicals continue to be warmly welcomed but are not invited to impose a theocratic hegemony. 
 Douglas M. Parker South Orleans, Mass. Nov. 6, 2008
 The writer held senior positions as a lawyer in the Nixon and Ford administrations.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Thinking of Good Vibrations,'' by Gail Collins (column, Nov. 6):
 According to Ms. Collins, ''there is nothing positive to say about Sarah Palin.'' Although not a supporter by any stretch, I'd like to defend Governor Palin.
 She has great comic timing, can deliver a speech with gusto, and a line with a real zing. 
 Though clearly out of her depth and more than a little naive in many ways, she is bright, ambitious and passionate. 
 If she runs for president, I will be inspired to work with gusto for her opponent, whoever that is, but as a woman I respect Ms. Palin's commitment, her energy and humanness. 
 Although pro-choice, I would probably also have elected to give birth to and raise a baby with Down syndrome. I respect Ms. Palin for that.
 In short, let Sarah Palin alone; there is plenty positive to say about her.
 Anne-Marie Hislop Davenport, Iowa Nov. 6, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARCELLUS HALL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); DOGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HISTORY (56%); SPORTS (56%); SPORTS & RECREATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



579 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Bailout of Iceland Held Up by Disputes Over Compensating Foreign Savers

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The $6 billion International Monetary Fund-led bailout of Iceland appeared to be on the back burner Wednesday amid haggling over how the country would compensate overseas customers who lost deposits when Icelandic banks failed.
 The managing director of the monetary fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, announced on Oct. 24 a $2.1 billion loan and an economic stabilization plan for, Iceland, a country of 300,000.
 The Icelandic government hopes that, with the addition of significant funds from Nordic countries and others, the rescue package will total about $6 billion. The government has approached China, Russia, Japan and the United States for help in bridging the gap, but is about $500 million short. 
 The rescue package and the backing of Nordic countries are contingent upon the approval of the monetary fund's executive board, which had been expected Nov. 4.
 The board is not expected to approve the loan, however, until Iceland resolves a conflict with European governments over how foreign savers will be compensated for billions of dollars in losses suffered on their deposits in Icelandic banks, mainly at Landsbanki's Icesave unit.
 Iceland's prime minister, Geir H. Haarde, said in an e-mailed statement that his government was still working on the loan package, and that Poland had offered to participate. He said Iceland was seeking to resolve the compensation issue with Britain and the Netherlands.
 ''I think it is unfortunate if they or anyone else tries to block our case at the I.M.F. board because of that,'' he said. ''We regard these as two separate matters and that the Icesave issue should be resolved on its own merits. I hope that the executive board of the I.M.F. will put our economic plan on the agenda as soon as possible.''
 The Icelandic currency and the country's stock market began collapsing in September, as the global credit crisis made it impossible for banks and businesses to roll over heavy foreign-currency debts. Financial institutions in the country overextended themselves during the era of easy credit.
 In October, the government stepped in to nationalize the three Icelandic banks -- Glitnir, Landsbanki and Kaupthing -- which together made up 90 percent of the financial system. Since then, officials have been seeking to arrange international support to stave off an economic collapse.
 The international repercussions of the bank failures have complicated matters. Savers in much of Northern Europe deposited money with the local units of Icelandic banks, which offered relatively high interest rates.
 British charities and local government organizations had deposited more than $:1 billion, or $1.7 billion, in Icelandic banks. Lenders in Austria, Britain, Germany and the Netherlands have also reported exposure to the banks.
 Wouter Bos, the Netherlands finance minister, told Dutch television on Tuesday that he opposed any monetary fund bailout unless Iceland compensated Dutch savers.
 The Dutch lent the Icelandic government 1.3 billion euros, or $1.7 billion, to help it pay back Dutch depositors. Iceland has not said how or whether that would be repaid.
 Gordon Brown, the British prime minister, has called Iceland's unwillingness to compensate savers ''totally unacceptable and illegal,'' and he has even threatened to use antiterrorist legislation to take over assets of Icelandic companies in Britain.
 ''We think it's important that Iceland resolves its issues with other countries before the I.M.F. grants the loan,'' Hendrienke Bolhaar, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bos, said Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Sunday called on government officials to resign and for banks to release more information.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HALLDOR KOLBEINS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); CURRENCIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%) ICELAND (96%); NETHERLANDS (93%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%); FRANCE (75%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); AUSTRIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



580 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Gates Urges Russian Calm Over Expansion of NATO

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: TALLINN, Estonia 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates arrived in this former Soviet republic on Wednesday with a firm message that Russia should not fear efforts by countries in the region to seek deeper integration with the West, and must not impede their decisions to do so.
 Reverberations from the August war between Russia and the former Soviet republic of Georgia were still in evidence as Mr. Gates spent the day meeting with NATO defense ministers. 
 The official focus of the talks among the NATO ministers was whether to push alliance membership for Ukraine, and if so, how. But a broader question permeated the meeting: How should NATO deal with a resurgent Russia? 
 ''Russia has no need to impede a sovereign country's desire to more fully integrate with the West,'' Mr. Gates declared as he stood with Estonia's prime minister, Andrus Ansip. ''Doing so is not a threat to Russia's security.''
 Russia has angrily accused the West of encroaching on its sphere of influence by expanding NATO membership to include territory the Kremlin controlled during the Soviet era. That issue, along with the American plan to build a missile defense system in Europe, has seriously strained relations between Russia and the United States. 
 The United States has signed agreements with Poland and the Czech Republic to place missile-defense sites on their soil, a system the United States says is meant to protect Europe from a possible strike from Iran. But the placement of the system -- in European territory once part of the Soviet bloc -- has brought outrage, and direct threats, from Russian officials.
 On Wednesday, the Interfax news agency quoted an anonymous Russian official as saying that new American proposals for the missile defense project, which were presented last week, were not acceptable. The Kremlin would not publicly comment Wednesday on the proposals, which Pentagon officials have said were intended to prove that the system was no threat to Russia's vast nuclear arsenal. The proposals invited Russia to join the United States and NATO in a continentwide system of missile defenses. 
 The Interfax report that the Kremlin had rejected Washington's proposals prompted American officials to press again for cooperation between the United States and Russia.
 ''It is our hope that this unnamed Russian official is not expressing his government's true wishes,'' said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary. ''We still very much desire to work with the Russians to counter Iran's growing ballistic missile threat.''
 Recent comments from Russian officials indicate that the Kremlin may be playing for time. While President-elect Barack Obama has said he will announce no national security initiatives until after he is sworn in on Jan. 20, he has in the past been less supportive of spending on missile defense than the Bush administration.
 The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said over the weekend that Kremlin leaders ''have taken notice of the positions on these issues'' on Mr. Obama's Web site. ''They instill hope that we shall be able to more constructively examine this theme in the upcoming period.''
 Separately, Mr. Gates declined to comment on continuing speculation that he could be asked to stay on as defense secretary in the new administration, perhaps for an interim period.
 ''I have nothing new to say on that subject,'' he said.
 Over recent years, Russia's hand in international affairs has been strengthened by its windfall from energy exports, and by the aggressive leadership of Vladimir V. Putin as president, and then as prime minister to his chosen successor, Dmitri A. Medvedev. Russia remains strong, though buffeted by the global economic downturn and falling energy prices, and its former Soviet neighbors express fears of a return to overwhelming Russian dominance.
 During an evening news conference here, Mr. Gates said his discussions had included the war between Russia and Georgia as well as the vast cyberattack on Estonia in 2007 that officials here say came from Russia.
 Mr. Gates announced that the United States would become a sponsor of an Estonian institute working on computer defenses and Internet security, and he cautioned Russia not to see any threat in the collaboration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (91%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ESTONIA (93%); GEORGIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



581 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (BET) WU: THE STORY OF THE WU-TANG CLAN (2007) In 1993 the Wu-Tang Clan -- including Raekwon, above -- came out of Staten Island and stormed the hip-hop world, generating more than $50 million in sales and stirring up intense critical admiration and not a little bad blood along the way. This documentary by Gerald K. Barclay, who grew up in the same neighborhood as some of the group's original nine members, includes rare film taken in the group's early years.
 9 A.M. (CBS) THE DOCTORS The experts explain how to perform a tracheotomy, the signs and symptoms of hypothermia, and how to determine and respond to anaphylactic shock. 
 9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY Don Rickles and Miley Cyrus are the guests. Regis Philbin works as a barista for a day at a Starbucks shop.
 10 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAY Anthony Edwards shares his ''ER'' memories (see below). 
 8 P.M. (ABC) UGLY BETTY Betty (America Ferrera) desperately tries to reach Daniel (Eric Mabius) to prevent the shipment of an issue of Mode that could result in a public-relations catastrophe. But he's at a company retreat. Hilda (Ana Ortiz) opens a secret salon when the city turns down her application for a permit.
 8 P.M. (NBC) MY NAME IS EARL Just as Earl (Jason Lee) reminisces about his first wedding anniversary with Joy (Jaime Pressly), his successful and handsome cousin Blake (Jason Priestly) shows up and makes him feel inadequate. Meanwhile Camden is abuzz with killer bees.
 9 P.M. (ABC) GREY'S ANATOMY Melissa George (''In Treatment'' and ''Alias''), right, guest stars as Sadie, a new intern at Seattle Grace Hospital and one of Meredith Grey's oldest friends. But Meredith's newer friends aren't that nice to Sadie. Mary McDonnell shows up as Virginia Dixon, a rather rigid surgeon.
 9 P.M. (Fox) KITCHEN NIGHTMARESGordon Ramsay declares Fiesta Sunrise, a Mexican restaurant in West Nyack, N.Y., unsanitary and closes it down before he even begins to discuss how to get the restaurant back on its feet. (Since Mr. Ramsay's makeover in February the restaurant was closed yet again -- this time by the state, for failing to pay taxes -- but has since reopened.)
 9:30 P.M. (DIY) RENOVATION REALITIES Thinking about saving some money by taking on that renovation project yourself? This new series chronicles the adventures, or misadventures, of homeowners' do-it-yourself projects. Up first: a husband's Christmas gift to his wife is a new master bathroom.
 9:30 P.M. (NBC) 30 ROCK Claire (Jennifer Aniston), a friend of Liz (Tina Fey) and Jenna (Jane Krakowski), visits New York and falls in a big way for Jack (Alec Baldwin). Tracy (Tracy Morgan) helps Kenneth (Jack McBrayer) fulfill a dream. Harry Anderson, Markie Post and Charlie Robinson of the 1980s series ''Night Court'' also appear.
 10 P.M. (CBS) ELEVENTH HOUR Dr. Jacob Hood (Rufus Sewell) is called on when a woman's body is discovered frozen solid on a beach on the hottest day of the year.
 10 P.M. (HBO) DIRTY DRIVING: THUNDERCARS OF INDIANA Anderson, Ind., once home to 33,000 General Motors jobs, was depressed long before the current economic turmoil. This film by the veteran documentary maker Jon Alpert looks at the town's decline and its continuing passion for racing at the local speedway.
 10 P.M. (NBC) ER As she struggles to save a 3-year-old girl, Dr. Banfield (Angela Bassett) recalls how Dr. Greene (Anthony Edwards, returning in a guest role) cared for her son.
 10 P.M. (Sundance) ICONOCLASTS Venus Williams, a five-time Wimbledon champion, likes to challenge herself off the court by designing and overseeing her own fashion line. Wyclef Jean, a Grammy Award-winning musician and former member of the Fugees, likes to test himself as well, as he demonstrates here, by gamely hitting a few balls with Ms. Williams. She returns the favor by strumming along with Mr. Jean at her first guitar lesson.
 10 P.M. (TLC) L.A. INK Kat Von D and this tattoo shop's other smoking tattoo artists try hypnotism to kick their habit.
 10:30 P.M. (Comedy Central) THE SARAH SILVERMAN PROGRAM Ms. Silverman, left, isn't sure she can handle being pregnant.
 11 P.M. (Sundance) LIVE FROM ABBEY ROAD The Subways, Gnarls Barkley and Herbie Hancock perform. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (84%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (75%); RAP MUSIC (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); COLD INJURIES (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (67%); MILEY CYRUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



582 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Officials to Lead 3 Departments' Transition

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama on Wednesday named two former Clinton White House officials, Joshua Gotbaum and Michael J. Warren, to oversee the new administration's takeover of the Treasury Department as it manages the still-evolving $700 billion financial rescue plan.
 Mr. Gotbaum, 57, the son of the New York labor leader Victor Gotbaum, worked briefly in the Carter administration before becoming a protege of the investment banker Felix G. Rohatyn at Lazard Freres & Company. He worked in the Clinton administration as an assistant secretary of defense, an assistant secretary of Treasury and controller of the Office of Management and Budget. 
 In a May 2001 essay for Government Executive magazine, Mr. Gotbaum reflected on the successes and limitations of bringing private-sector financial management to government programs. ''There is a debate on the standards for social insurance, national parks and other 'stewardship assets,' '' he wrote. ''Here it is not at all clear that private sector standards make sense: Rather than auditing acres at Yosemite and exhibits at the Smithsonian, wouldn't resources be better used to audit cash at the Housing and Urban Development Department?'' 
 After Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Gotbaum ran the September 11th Fund, a charity established to help people and businesses hurt by the terrorist attacks.
 He later oversaw the restructuring of the bankrupt Hawaiian Airlines. In 2006, Mr. Gotbaum became an operating partner of the private equity firm Blue Wolf Capital Management. There, he helped restructure Platform Learning Inc., a company acquired by Blue Wolf that provides tutoring services under the No Child Left Behind program. 
 Mr. Warren, 41, the other leader of the Treasury review team, is a Rhodes scholar who has worked as a strategic consultant to technology and finance companies for McKinsey & Company. In the Clinton administration, he was executive director of the National Economic Council. 
 He is the chief operating officer of Stonebridge International, a business consulting and government relations firm co-founded by Sandy Berger, President Bill Clinton's national security adviser. The firm's Web site says it has helped a metals manufacturer navigate Russian politics and bureaucracy, a retailer win approval for an acquisition in China and a chemical company with European safety and environmental regulations. 
 The Obama transition team named two more former Clinton administration officials, Thomas E. Donilon and Wendy R. Sherman, to head the transition for the State Department.
 Mr. Donilon, 53, assistant secretary of state for public affairs and State Department chief of staff under Mr. Clinton, is a partner in the law and lobbying firm firm O'Melveny and Myers. He is no longer a registered lobbyist, but he worked as one until 2005 for Fannie Mae, the government-backed mortgage giant whose failure this year contributed to the financial crisis. Mr. Donilon has worked for decades at the top levels in Democratic presidential campaigns. 
 Ms. Sherman, 59, was counselor for the State Department and special adviser to Mr. Clinton on North Korea. She is a principal of the Albright Group and Albright Capital Management, consulting and investment firms founded by former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. 
 Mr. Obama's transition team also named two Clinton officials, John P. White and Michele A. Flournoy, to oversee the takeover of the Defense Department. 
 Mr. White, 71, was deputy secretary of defense from 1995 to 1997 under President Clinton and assistant secretary of defense from 1977 to 1978 under President Jimmy Carter. 
 A former Marine lieutenant, he is a lecturer at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and a senior partner in Global Technology Partners, a firm founded by William J. Perry, defense secretary under Mr. Clinton that invests in military and technology companies.
 Ms. Flournoy, 47, a deputy assistant secretary of defense for strategy and threat reduction in the Clinton administration, last year co-founded the nonprofit Center for a New American Security, a research organization closely associated with Mr. Obama's foreign policy team.
 Last year, she helped write a paper urging a shift to ''conditional engagement'' in Iraq depending on the actions of the Iraqi government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); APPROVALS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); CHEMICALS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); TERRORISM (66%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (64%); CHEMICALS MFG (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%); CITIES (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (82%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (72%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



583 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: With President-Elect Obama, We Dare to Hope Again

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Emptying Pandora's Box,'' by Roger Cohen (column, The New York Times on the Web, Nov. 10): 
 Last week Barack Obama held his first press conference as the president-elect. It gave me hope.
 I have lived in Europe during George W. Bush's administration. Many of us expats used to cringe every time Mr. Bush spoke or, worse, answered questions. I defended him, telling my friends that they didn't get it, that a majority of Americans identify with the way he talks. 
 Secretly, I squirmed. Wasn't anyone in the United States really listening to him speak?
 Worse yet, I was jealous of the British. They had an extremely articulate prime minister (Tony Blair). Even though he lost favor with a majority in Britain, at least he answered a question with a thoughtful, coherent response.
 At last week's press conference, President-elect Obama tried to answer questions -- you could actually see him considering the words before they came out. Wow ... what a refreshing concept! Call it hope.
 Thank you, America, for voting for him. I might just move back now -- if I can find a job.
 Andrew Singer Copenhagen, Nov. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 For too long, but especially during the go-go Reagan years and the shopping-as-a-patriotic-act Bush era, freedom has been debased and redefined as narrow self-interest. 
 As Barack Obama and his administration restore the balance of power among the three branches in government, we also must restore the balance between freedom, equality and community (liberte, egalite, fraternite), the three pillars of a true democracy.
 Having achieved the milestone of electing a black president, we can continue to refine what equality means and democratize the ties of interdependence at all levels: local, national and international. For the greatest challenges of our time, such as the economic crisis and global warming, are both local and global and require both local and global solutions.
 With a new sense of shared purpose and of hope, of individual and collective responsibility, we stand ready to do the real work of community -- not a moment too soon. Never before was the audacity of hope more needed. 
 Isabel Kentengian Princeton, N.J., Nov. 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TONY BLAIR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



584 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2336 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, Nov. 13, 2008

 BODY:
Foreign
 ISLAMIST INSURGENTS CAPTURE SOMALI PORT CITY WITHOUT A FIGHT
 Islamist insurgents took another major city in Somalia without firing a shot, seizing Merka, a strategic port city. The Islamists now control a large swath of south-central Somalia, and the government seems too paralyzed by infighting to do much about it. Merka is 60 miles south of Mogadishu, Somalia's capital, and Somali officials said the Islamists, above on Nov. 4, were planning to lay siege to the city. PAGE A6 
 TRUCK BOMB SHAKES AFGHAN CITY
 A tanker truck packed with explosives detonated outside the provincial council office in Afghanistan's largest southern city, Kandahar, killing the driver and at least six other people and wounding more than 40 others. The attack occurred just hours after two men on a motorcycle sprayed acid on the faces of eight teenage girls, apparently as a punishment for attending high school. PAGE A12 
 IRAN REPORTS NEW MISSILE TESTS
 Iran successfully test-fired a new generation of long-range surface-to-surface missiles with a range of 1,200 miles, state-run television reported. A senior official said the missile would be used only defensively. A television news broadcast said the missile, called the Sejil, used solid fuel and was more accurate than other missiles in the country's arsenal. PAGE A12 
 GAZA BORDER CLASH IMPERILS TRUCE
 Four Hamas gunmen were killed in a clash with Israeli soldiers along the Gaza border, further testing an already shaky truce. An Israeli soldier was slightly wounded, an Israeli statement said. PAGE A10 
 HIDDEN WORRY IN ARGENTINA
 On the surface, the global financial crisis has yet to afflict Argentina, a country made by past economic traumas to live for the moment. But a growing number of Argentines are stockpiling dollars amid worries that their government's economic policies have doomed them to another financial crisis, now that the global credit squeeze has begun taking its toll on the region. PAGE A14 
 GATES IN ESTONIA
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates arrived in Estonia with a firm message that Russia should not fear or impede countries in the region seeking deeper integration with the West. Mr. Gates spent the day meeting with defense ministers from NATO, including those from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. PAGE A14 
 MORE TAINTED FOOD FROM CHINA
 Hong Kong inspectors found fish feed imported from China contaminated with high levels of melamine, a toxic chemical that has recently been blamed for tainting Chinese-produced milk, eggs and other foods, and sickening more than 50,000 children in China. The finding is the latest indication that melamine has seeped into large parts of China's food and feed industry. PAGE A15 
 NATIONAL
 PICKING OBAMA'S SUCCESSOR
 A Boon for Illinois Governor
 The task of filling President-elect Barack Obama's seat in the Senate offers Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois a double blessing of sorts: a chance to wield influence in Washington and to focus attention on something other than his own litany of problems. But whom should he name? The list of those believed to be under consideration grows longer each day. PAGE A18 
 A MAJOR OVERSEAS EXPANSION
 Expanding overseas has been a slowly developing trend for American hospitals in the last decade. But the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, which already owns or manages six facilities in four foreign countries, is raising the stakes: it intends to open and run 25 oncology centers abroad over the next decade in partnership with GE Healthcare. PAGE A20
 A PUZZLING CRIME
 A week after the police in St. Johns, Ariz., charged an 8-year-old boy in the shooting deaths of his father and another man, people who know him say they are no closer to understanding the roots of the crime. His mother, Erin Bloomfield, 26, who has shared custody of the boy with his father since the couple divorced six years ago said that her son -- whom she described as a ''normal boy'' who plays videogames nonstop and dotes on his new dog, a boxer -- in recent months ''seemed to be changing.'' PAGE A18
 COLLEGE ELECTIVE
 Some college students while away free hours in mindless pursuits. Vanessa Sievers, above, a junior at Dartmouth College, ran for treasurer of Grafton County, N.H., and won. The incumbent she unseated, after careful analysis of her election defeat, attributed it to ''brainwashed college kids'' who voted for the Democratic ticket. PAGE A18
 OBITUARIES
 REV. A. L. WOODS JR., 80
 A civil rights campaigner, in the days of crowd-throttling fire-hosings and snarling police dogs he led the first lunch-counter sit-ins in Birmingham, Ala., and three decades later played a pivotal role confronting racial discrimination by country clubs. PAGE B12
 NIKOLA KAVAJA, 75
 A Yugoslav-born anti-Communist whose hatred for the dictator Tito spurred him to a career of violent subversion and terrorism, including the hijacking of an American Airlines flight from New York to Chicago in 1979. PAGE B12
 BUSINESS
 LIFE INSURERS ARE LOOKING 
 To Join Line for Federal Aid
 Life insurance companies, their stocks taking another pounding this week with more credit rating downgrades looming, have little choice but to seek capital. They have until Friday to apply for federal help, but only about half of the life insurance industry is qualified to submit applications. Meanwhile, most insurers have been unwilling to say whether they want to apply or not; no one wants to send a signal that they might need help. PAGE B1
 PURSE-BUYER'S REMORSE
 Retailers expect consumers to return a record $219 billion of merchandise this year, or 8.7 percent of total sales, at least partly because of jitters about the overall economy. Leading items for returns are clothing and accessories. ''Fashion is a feel-good purchase that sometimes doesn't feel so good once you get it home,'' one analyst said. Above, the returns counter at a Filene's basement in Manhattan. PAGE B1
 FINGER-POINTING IN LONDON
 As Britain confronts the highest unemployment in over a decade, London, Britain's financial center, is suffering not just the loss of jobs and prestige, but denial too. Banks that a year ago were building up their businesses to tap into the global investment boom are now racing to retrench. And they are being condemned by a public that blames their risk-happy culture for setting off the current financial crisis. PAGE B1
 A DIGITAL MYTH
 Trying to disabuse yourself of the Megapixel Myth for digital cameras can lead to embarrassing self-questioning: You mean, 15 megapixels isn't three times as great as 5 megapixels? This year's model isn't better than last year's? But learn about camera technology and you can take control of buying decisions. PAGE B6
 SMALL BUSINESS
 A RETURN TO THE DAYS
 Before Money Existed
 Tight credit has small-business owners turning in droves to an age-old source of commerce: the exchange of goods and services, or barter. The system has grown beyond simple ''I'll take yours, if you take mine,'' with multiple parties sometimes involved. And of course the Internet is helping to make it a global enterprise. PAGE F1
 THE GOOGLE MONEY TREE
 Many former Google employees (known as Xooglers, a contraction of ex-Googlers, pronounced ''zooglers'') are entrepreneurial and wealthy enough to start their own companies in Silicon Valley and beyond. And with investment money scarce, many of them have tapped into a network of affluent and technically skilled investors -- their former co-workers. PAGE F6
 NEW YORK
 DOUBTS ABOUT DEATH'S CAUSE LEAD
 To Dismissal of Murder Charge
 Jamel Gauthier spent three years in a jail cell on Rikers Island, leaving only for a courtroom where he was facing charges of murdering his girlfriend, Jasmine Brock. But on Wednesday morning, more than a week into his trial, prosecutors dismissed the case after the medical examiner's report, which stated that Ms. Brock had died of strangulation, became shrouded in doubt. PAGE A24
 HOLDING OUT FOR MARRIAGE
 A month after the Connecticut Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage, the first ceremonies were performed on Wednesday. Among the couples taking vows were Peg Oliveira and Jennifer Vickery, who had chosen not to enter into a civil union, an option that has been available since 2005. ''We decided that we wanted to hold out for the real thing,'' Ms. Oliveira said. PAGE A25 
 SPORTS
 A CALL TO STRENGTHEN
 The N.F.L. Players Union
 A jury's finding in favor of more than 2,000 retired N.F.L. players in a class-action lawsuit underscores the need for an aggressive advocate like baseball's Donald Fehr to succeed Gene Upshaw, above, the longtime union leader who died in August, William C. Rhoden writes in Sports of The Times. PAGE B12
 HE LEADS A LIFE OF DANGER
 The job is a throwback to the days of one of football's oldest and most dangerous plays: the Flying Wedge, which caused so many injuries that it was banned in 1894, though variations of it continued. But the ''wedgebusters'' of today's N.F.L. kickoff teams, like Jonathan Goff of the Giants, take the risk for a chance to get on the field. PAGE B13 
 FROM WORKOUT TO CYCLING SPORT
 Cyclocross began as an way for road cyclists to stay in shape during the winter. But over the years, it has developed its own stars, fan base and a professional World Cup circuit that stretches from September until February with events in Europe and North America. And after years of mediocre performances on the international level, United States riders are now beating the best. PAGE B15 
 RED SOX FREEZE TICKET PRICES
 The Boston Red Sox have raised prices on some tickets at Fenway Park every season back to 1995. But on Wednesday, the team froze ticket prices at already-high 2008 levels, a clear reflection of the worsening economic crisis. The Red Sox are following the Houston Astros and Pittsburgh Pirates (for the seventh straight season at PNC Park) in freezing prices. PAGE B12
 Arts
 FAKE EXPERT, PHONY THINK TANK
 And Real Tale of Tricking Media
 Claims that Gov. Sarah Palin was unaware Africa was a continent were attributed to Martin Eisenstadt, a McCain policy adviser. Except, Mr. Eisenstadt isn't real, any more than his think tank, the Harding Institute for Freedom. He's an elaborate hoax that took in a number of news organizations. Credit for the ruse is being claimed by a pair of filmmakers, Dan Mirish, above, and Eitan Gorlin, bent on pitching a TV show based on him. Page C1 
 ANCIENT ROME, GOOGLE STYLE
 Google Earth has taken users to corners of the globe they might not otherwise see, and its Sky feature took them even beyond that into other galaxies. Now Google is delving into time travel, and users can visit a three-dimensional digital rendering of Rome as it was 17 centuries ago. Ancient Rome 3D, as the feature has been named, allows users to tour the city under Constantine the Great as easily as any other city can be explored today, said Michael T. Jones, chief technology officer of Google Earth. Page C11 
 Style
 PARANOIA, DELUSIONS AND DEMONS
 Given Online Understanding
 If you're a victim of mind control, or there are voices that scream from the walls for your blood, somebody on the Internet understands you. A growing number of ''extreme communities'' have cropped up online that offer a kind of peer support for those suffering delusions. A worrisome trend, psychologists and psychiatrists believe, because without constant support many of these delusions can fade on their own. Page E1 
 GOING BEYOND LEFT, RIGHT, LEFT
 It's not always such a simple matter as one foot in front of the other. Walking can be fraught with difficulties like improper alignment and muscle tension, factors that can contribute to unnecessary aches and pains. Walking lessons can help correct your body's unintentional habits, even if you think you need a lesson in walking about as much as you need one in blinking. Page E11 
 Home
 IN TRINIDAD, HISTORIC HOME 
 Becomes Symbol of Fading History
 The last century has been rough on Trinidad's historic buildings. The concept of preservation has come late to the island, where many structures have been torn down to give prime real estate to other projects. The Boissiere House, emblematic of turn-of-the-century Trinidadian architecture, is for sale, and many on the island fear it will face demolition like so many others. Page D1 
 Editorial
 FORECLOSURE PREVENTION LITE
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. was notably absent from the rollout on Tuesday of the Bush administration's newest foreclosure prevention plan. Maybe he was finally too embarrassed to stand before the American people yet again and offer yet another too-little, too-late solution. PAGE A28
 RWANDA'S SHADOW
 The legacy of Rwanda lives on in eastern Congo, where ethnic tensions fueled by the 1994 genocide are creating new horrors. More international peacekeepers and aid are urgently needed, but the United Nations Security Council is shamefully failing to act. PAGE A28 
 TAINTED JUSTICE
 One lesson of the 2008 election season is the escalating threat to the integrity and independence of the justice system from big-money state judicial campaigns. PAGE A28
 Op-Ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 Three Senate races are still undecided. There's Alaska, determined to continue its role as the vortex of all things politically strange; Georgia, whose runoff is Dec. 2; and Minnesota, where about 200 votes separate Norm Coleman and Al Franken. PAGE A29 
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 President-elect Barack Obama and his aides are sending signals that education may be on the back burner at the beginning of the new administration. He ranked it fifth among his priorities, and if it is being played down, that's a mistake. PAGE A29 
 AN ENGLISH LESSON
 Jonathan Freedland, a columnist for The Guardian of London, writes that Republicans could learn something from the Tories in Britain, who have staged a comeback after being wiped out 11 years ago in a watershed election by a charismatic opponent. PAGE A29 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A capsule summary on Thursday about a new long-range surface-to-surface missile test-fired by Iran overstated the capabilities of the weapon. The new weapon, called the Sejil, is said to be more accurate than some -- not all -- of the missiles in the country's arsenal. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (86%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HAMAS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); EXPLOSIVES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); ANIMAL FOODS (64%); LIVESTOCK FEED (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ARMED FORCES (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (77%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (91%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) SOMALIA (98%); CHINA (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); ESTONIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008



585 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Picking Obama Successor Puts Spotlight (Good for a Change) on Governor

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- The task of filling President-elect Barack Obama's seat in the Senate offers Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois a rare chance to wield influence in Washington.
It also offers Mr. Blagojevich, a Democrat in his second term, the rare chance to focus public attention on something other than his litany of problems -- a federal investigation into his administration, his icy standoffs with the Democratic-controlled State Legislature and his dismal approval rating (which, according to a Chicago Tribune survey last month, has sunk to 13 percent, worse even than some approval marks for President Bush).
''Compared to everything else, this is good publicity,'' said Kent Redfield, a political scientist at the University of Illinois at Springfield. ''Now it's a matter of doing something on it that helps him politically. He needs to.'' 
Since Election Day, Mr. Blagojevich's decision, assigned to him under Illinois law, has become this state's political parlor game, one buried in layers deeper than just which Democrat will best guard the seat until the 2010 election.
Among the many political concerns: Should another African-American finish the term of Mr. Obama? Should the replacement be a caretaker with no expectations of re-election, or someone who dreams of staying on? And how might Mr. Blagojevich navigate the choice in such a way that might shore up some specks of support for his own political future?
Under state law, the governor has wide discretion in coming up with a successor. He need only pick someone who is a resident of the state, is at least 30 years old and has been a United States citizen for at least nine years.
The list of those rumored to be under consideration (including some, it seems, who have blatantly offered themselves up to the governor) grows longer each day. Mr. Blagojevich, who is turning to a group of close advisers for guidance, is expected to make a decision around Christmas.
Meanwhile, the calls keep coming.
''It's unbelievable what this has become; he is hearing it from all sides,'' said Lucio Guerrero, Mr. Blagojevich's spokesman, who described some of the inquiries to the governor as amounting to people essentially dreaming aloud, ''Boy, I'd be a good senator.''
Most often, political analysts here mention names like Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., long a Democratic congressman from Chicago's South Side and the city's southern suburbs and son of the civil rights activist; Tammy Duckworth, a veteran of the war in Iraq who lost her legs when her helicopter came under fire and who is now director of the state's Department of Veterans Affairs; Valerie Jarrett, a close adviser to Mr. Obama and longtime ally of Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago (she told The Chicago Tribune on Wednesday that she was not interested in the appointment); and several other members of Congress from in and near Chicago, including Melissa Bean, Danny K. Davis, Luis V. Gutierrez and Jan Schakowsky.
Many of the most-discussed names on the list are loathe to discuss the possibility publicly, instead staying silent or issuing brief, generic statements.
''Now that Senator Obama has won the presidency, I would be honored and humbled to be appointed to succeed him in the U.S. Senate,'' Mr. Jackson said in a statement. ''But, in the end, the decision rests with Governor Blagojevich, and I'm confident that he'll make an appointment in the best interest of the state as well as the nation.''
That said, Mr. Jackson's camp also commissioned and made public a poll that looked at what likely voters in Illinois thought about possible replacements for Mr. Obama. It showed Mr. Jackson, who has one of the most recognized names in Illinois politics, topping the list.
Ms. Duckworth, who was appointed to the veterans' affairs job by Mr. Blagojevich after she lost a bid for Congress in 2006, said in an interview that she had not spoken to him about the Senate opening.
''If I were to be considered, I'd be deeply honored,'' said Ms. Duckworth, who added that she would also be perfectly happy to stay put, ''taking care of Illinois veterans.''
Ms. Duckworth, who remains a major in the Illinois National Guard, has also been mentioned as someone who might be offered a role in the Obama administration. She and Mr. Obama have not discussed such a possibility, she said, but she noted that whenever a commander in chief had summoned her, ''I have grabbed my boots and headed over.''
While influential Democrats might usually weigh in as the governor makes such a decision, Mr. Obama has suggested that he will stay out of the matter. Mr. Blagojevich is also something of a loner in the political world here, having clashed over the years with Democratic leaders and wrestling with his public image.
Though Mr. Blagojevich came into office portraying himself as a reformer, his administration has come under federal scrutiny; by last month, 13 people had been indicted in a corruption probe into influence peddling. Mr. Blagojevich, who has left open the possibility of running for a third term in 2010, has not been charged with wrongdoing.
Mr. Blagojevich has indicated that he does not intend to appoint himself to the Senate seat, a seemingly far-fetched option, but one some of his severest critics seemed to think was possible. Some analysts still suggest he might consider appointing one of his potential rivals to remove them from a governor's race -- for example, Lisa Madigan, the state attorney general and daughter of Michael J. Madigan, the longtime speaker of the Illinois House; or Daniel W. Hynes, the state comptroller and son of Thomas Hynes, another powerful Illinois Democrat.
Some critics, only half jokingly, suggest that Mr. Blagojevich might want to consider Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the United States attorney here for the past seven years who has overseen investigations into the administrations of Mr. Blagojevich and his predecessor, City Hall, the county jail and former Chicago police officers, among others.
Mr. Guerrero, his spokesman, said Mr. Blagojevich was focused on finding someone who would be a strong advocate for the residents of Illinois on matters like health care and jobs.
''The other stuff I don't think is weighing on him as much as people make it out to be,'' Mr. Guerrero said, chalking up Mr. Blagojevich's low approval ratings to the bleak economic times. ''When your name is on the door, you're the one people are going to be talking about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. and Tammy Duckworth have been mentioned as replacements for Barack Obama.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18)
 Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich faces the test of choosing a person to fill Barack Obama's Senate seat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); IRAQ WAR (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); TAMMY DUCKWORTH (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (55%); JESSE JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



586 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2008

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: More on Whether a Big Chill Is Nigh

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Scientists weigh in on idea that Earth is poised for a long big chill. 

 BODY:
[UPDATE, 12:30 p.m.: Thomas Crowley responds to critiques below.] I was on the road yesterday and had no time to collate earth scientists' reactions to the Nature paper positing that the world, after 450,000 years of climatic turmoil (the ice ages and warm spells) is poised to enter a quasi-permanent big chill (unless we avert it, after dealing with near-term warming, with a subsequent of greenhouse gases).
Responses came back from James Hansen, Richard Alley and other longtime contacts in the climate science community, and I've posted them below. [UPDATE 6:00 p.m.: Carl Wunsch of M.I.T. has joined the fray, and Thomas Crowley has responded.] As I said yesterday, Dr. Hansen has long thought that the next ice age, whether short or long, will be averted -- as long as humans have the ability to alter the atmosphere -- by adjusting greenhouse-gas concentrations. And this geological time scale has little to do with the current push by many climate scientists to curb such emissions to avoid dangerous warming in the next century or two. 
I'll send these thoughts to the authors of the Nature paper, Thomas J. Crowley and William T. Hyde, for their reactions.
Richard B. Alley, Pennsylvania State University (the "singing climatologist"): 
Andy- Fascinating idea, fascinating paper. 
I'm a huge believer in simple models, but whenever I use one, someone is sure to point out that dramatic behaviors are often easier to obtain in simpler models. (Thermal oscillators in ice sheets, and shutdowns of the north Atlantic, are two things that seem easier in simpler models.) So a model like this is great for putting forward the hypothesis, but a range of models will be required for testing. The glaciological community has for decades harbored the widespread belief that the thermal evolution of the ice sheet, and the effect of this evolution on ice flow, are central in the ice-age cycling (not all communities agree, but there is plenty of literature on this from the land-ice crowd), so use of a temperature-independent rheology for the ice leaves out one favored explanation for termination of extensive glaciation. With CO2 feedbacks and north Atlantic feedbacks not in the picture, I believe that the current paper leaves out Mo Raymo's (1997) idea that termination of a glaciation requires storage of excess ice in the northern hemisphere -- sort of a "the bigger they are, the harder they fall" idea, which can be found in earlier and later literature as well. (Much of the glaciological literature on termination of large ice ages requires ice-sheet growth past a threshold size.) In a short piece in the PAGES Newsletter, George Denton, Wally Broecker and I linked this excess ice and orbital forcing through ocean circulation to control of CO2, and others are surely thinking along the same lines. So, if some of these ideas on termination of glaciations are correct (ice-sheet temperature, ocean circulation and CO2), and all of these are omitted from the current model, it leaves open the possibility that a more comprehensive model would get a different result. --Richard
Julie Brigham-Grette, University of Massachusetts, Amherst (whom I've consulted on Arctic climate shifts many times): 
I agree with Richard. There are so many exceptions ("we do not consider glacial-interglacial changes in CO2 or North Atlantic heat sources"; other experiments listed have "no ocean dynamics." The paper represents a series of sensitivity tests, theoretical as you say, but it might at least stir more work in understanding abrupt change and system dynamics. There are many things we don't understand -- like why the EPICA interglacials before stage 11 have a lower threshold level than after. Sometimes even simple models help us think in new ways, and that is what science does.
James E. Hansen, NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies:
Look at Figure 3 in our "Target" paper Target CO2: Where should humanity aim? [pdf]. Yes, the Earth has been on a 50-million-year cooling trend with superposed glacial-interglacial oscillations.* It would take only a small further reduction in climate forcing (less long-lived GHGs or whatever) to yield more ice during the glacial phase of glacial-interglacial oscillations. But that is entirely academic at this point, unless humans go extinct. Although orbital variations instigate the glacial-interglacial swings, the mechanisms for climate change are changes in GHG amount and surface albedo (as we show in Fig. 1 of our paper) -- those mechanisms are now under the control of humans. Another ice age cannot occur unless humans go extinct. It would take only one CFC factory to avert any natural cooling tendency. Our problem is the opposite: we cannot seem to find a way to keep our GHG forcing at a level that assures a climate resembling that of the past 10,000 years.
Jim
*The long-term cooling is related to the situation with the continents -- not much subduction of carbonate-rich ocean crustnow. The site of strong subduction associated with India plowing through the Tethys Ocean ended when India crashed into Asia 50 million years ago, so that source of CO2 diminished. 
Daniel P. Schrag, Harvard University (here's his formula for action on global warming):
I am very, very skeptical. This is all fun and games with a climate model. (and theirs is not a particularly good one...). I do not believe that their results have much to do with how the real earth would or will behave. And I think many climate scientists would agree with me. Why don't you ask Carl Wunsch or Kerry Emanuel what they think? [I've sent a query to Dr. Wunsch.]
Dan
More on the paper and how it's stirred debate is online at Discover magazine. Again, the time scale here is far beyond what's relevant to climate policy now (meaning the next 100 years or so). As I've written before, Homo sapiens appears to be in the uncomfortable position of being the first life form to exert a global-scale influence (for better or worse) and be aware of that reality (plants altered the atmosphere, too, but most likely didn't realize it). Do you think we've absorbed this yet?
[UPDATE:] Thomas Crowley has responded to this round of critiques: 
Andy,
Not surprised by the replies, but don't buy them:
As we said in the paper there is a huge gulf between the original simple energy balance model from Budyko and the one we use. Yet the basic results are almost exactly the same. The fact that our model does a surprisingly good job with simulating the last 400,000 years of global ice volume, with no change in model physics and only one linear change in boundary conditions, argues for the fact that, despite plausible deficiencies, we have done a surprisingly good job of simulating the pattern of fluctuations in ice volume.
Another example can be drawn from the energy balance model calculations for the snow/ice instability - despite all the details not in the original energy balance model, much more complex general circulation models have now been shown to have the same behavior - a citation from 1994 (!) which we have in our document but is almost universally ignored by the geological community but has been supported by subsequent work with another model (Bette Otto-Bliesner).
The criticisms also ignore the analysis of data which almost undeniably indicate increasing variability towards the present - is one supposed to think that this variability will now just stay anchored at the present level? That to mean seems more implausible.
I am quite comfortable with our conclusions and remain unconvinced by the first wave of counter-arguments.
Tom
[UPDATE 2:30 p.m.:] Carl Wunsch of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has fired quite a broadside: 
Surely this isn't science in any conventional sense. Taking a toy model and using it to make a "prediction" about something nearly a million years in the future, is a form of science fiction---maybe interesting in the same way a novel is, but it isn't science. The prediction itself is untestable---except a million years from now, and the model "tests" that quoted are carefully chosen to be those things that the model has been tuned to get "right," with no mention of the huge number of things it gets wrong. How many times do "if", and "may" get used in the paper?
If I make a four-box model of the world economy, and predict the US stock market level 500 years from now, who would pay any attention? Climate is far more complicated than the world economy, yet supposedly reputable journals are publishing papers that superficially look like science, but which are the sort of thing scientists will speculate about late at night over a few beers. It doesn't deserve the light of day except as the somewhat interesting mathematical behavior of a grossly over-simplified set of differential equations. Why should anyone take it seriously? The wider credibility of the science is ultimately undermined by such exercises.
Dr. Crowley has responded to Dr. Wunsch (I'll end the up-front debate here and any further comments by scientists can come in the comment string below):
These are pretty harsh words and they almost sound convincing. Except that we do make an attempt to validate the model with respect to how it has performed against the best estimate of global ice volume we have - Shackleton's 2000 record (I might add that I am not sure of any other modeling study that has tried to validate itself against the Shackleton record). And it is this very same model run that is run past the present.
We also point out that similar processes appear to have gone on in the deeper geological past with respect to Antarctica. We again point out that observations clearly indicate an increase in variability towards the present. Does one somehow expect that just to stop? If so, why, Carl?
With respect to the dismissal of the model, we point out that we have separately applied the model to the great Permo-Carboniferous glaciation on Pangaea and to the Snowball Earth problem (although some people do not like one of the solutions it produces). Are not these tests of the models, or a separate test we have done with respect to noise forcing of the model (referred to in paper)? This is actually a fairly well tested model (Dick Peltier has done separate work on the Pleistocene - again referred to in our paper).
Sorry Carl, this is science - you might not like it, but it is science.
TC

        
More on the 'Sensitive' Climate Question
        
Will the Next Ice Age Be a Very Long One?
        
Study Finds Limited Sensitivity of Climate to CO2
        
Machiavelli and Humanity's Lukewarm Response to Warming
        
On Warming and U.S. Hurricane Strikes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (93%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); WRITERS (71%) Climate Change; earth science; Global Warming; History; ice ages; paleoclimatology; simulation; Crowley, Thomas J; Hansen, James E; Geology; Ice; Ice Age; Antarctic Regions; Arctic Regions; poles; science

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: Crowley, Thomas J; Hansen, James E

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) ARCTIC (92%); ANTARCTICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Antarctic Regions; Arctic Regions

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



587 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Aren't There Enough Trails?

 BODY:
Given the last-minute rule changes, it's a little surprising that the Bush administration hasn't made a harder push on snowmobiles in Yellowstone National Park. 
 The Interior Department, after all, has spent eight years seeking to vastly increase the number of snowmobiles, ignoring its own scientists. But now, in response to a court ruling throwing out a plan allowing 540 snowmobiles a day into Yellowstone, the department proposes a compromise: 318 machines a day. The public has until Monday to comment -- yet again. 
 Certainly, 318 is a better number than 540 and better still than the 720 allowed before that, especially since these would be machines using the best available technology. But as we've seen in past years, the environmental advantages of lower-emissions snowmobiles are compromised when manufacturers ramp up their horsepower, as they nearly always do. 
 The National Park Service's own scientists -- studying air pollution, noise pollution and the effect on the park's animals -- have consistently found that the best solution is low-emission, higher-capacity snow coaches. The new plan would allow 78 of those a day. 
 Our number for snowmobiles in Yellowstone is zero, the number proposed by the Clinton administration. Had it been accepted, eight years ago, the winter economy of the communities surrounding Yellowstone would have long since adjusted. The transition from snowmobiles to snow coaches would be complete, and there is every likelihood that winter tourism would be up, in a quieter, cleaner, more pristine Yellowstone. 
 This new plan is a bad and barely acceptable compromise. It is well past time for snowmobilers to confine themselves to the thousands of miles of trails on public lands outside Yellowstone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); SNOWMOBILING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EMISSIONS (74%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); NOISE POLLUTION (72%); AIR POLLUTION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



588 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5745 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION,' through Jan. 11. The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: What comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: What came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
 * ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'TRACES OF THE CALLIGRAPHER: ISLAMIC CALLIGRAPHY IN PRACTICE, CIRCA 1600-1900' AND 'WRITING THE WORD OF GOD: CALLIGRAPHY AND THE QUR'AN,' through Feb. 8. These side-by-side exhibitions, perfect in size and carefully thought out, approach Islamic calligraphy from two perspectives. The first show is basically a manual in techniques of fine penmanship and luxury book-making, illustrated by superb examples of tools of the trade and finished products. The second is an array of hand-written Koran pages for total-immersion contemplation. Gorgeous. (See above.) (Cotter)
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE,' through Jan. 11. Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'JESPER JUST: ROMANTIC DELUSIONS,' through Jan. 4. An enchanting show of four short films exhibits most of the qualities for which Mr. Just has become known since completing his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 2003. Melodramatic but never campy or over the top and made with Hollywood-quality production values, his brief musicals explore vulnerable, ordinarily well-armored zones of the masculine psyche, like grief, same-sex love, Oedipal conflict and spiritual desire. The singing is wonderful. (See above.) (Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'HOUSE PROUD: 19TH-CENTURY WATERCOLOR INTERIORS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION,' through Jan. 25. The 70 or so jewel-like renderings of rooms and their furnishings here are delightful, mordantly signifying artifacts. They track the domestic effects of exoticism and nostalgia (chinoiserie, Gothic Revival); uncover glimmers of modernity (Biedermeier, smaller rooms); and witness the birth of the contemporary genre known as shelter porn. Accompanied by relevant examples of furniture, decorative objects and books, they also reveal that rooms seen whole, with light and space as well as decor carefully depicted, are among painting's most appealing subjects. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)
 * FRICK COLLECTION: 'ANDREA RICCIO: RENAISSANCE MASTER OF BRONZE,' through Jan. 18. Scholars say that Andrea Riccio was one of the greatest sculptors of the Italian Renaissance. Cast in dark bronze and resembling Roman antiquities, Riccio's small-scale statuettes, reliefs and oil lamps seem unremarkably modest at first. But let your eyes adjust to the formal subtlety, expressive urgency and almost supernatural aliveness of his art and you will fall in love. Sculpture does not get much better than this. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM:
 'THEANYSPACEWHATEVER,' through Jan. 7. The innately sculptural Guggenheim mounts the first major exhibition in this country about relational aesthetics -- probably the most radical art to emerge in the 1990s -- and comes up looking, well, remarkably empty, which is also extraordinarily beautiful in its own Wright. The more or less interactive works by 10 artists invite you to experience in a new way time, space, the art-viewing world and the museum itself. Even if you never want to see the museum going this far out again, the Guggenheim must be credited for bringing the latest art remarkably intact to a larger public. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith) 
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CATHERINE OPIE: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER,' through Jan. 7. Catherine Opie is many artists in one. Best known in the 1990s for her striking portraits of gay, lesbian and transgendered men and women drawn from a circle of friends and intimates, she is also a photographer of landscapes, cityscapes, architecture, still lifes and lifestyles. She is an insider and an outsider: a documentarian and a provocateur, a classicist and a maverick; a trekker and a stay-at-home; a lesbian feminist mother who resists the gay mainstream. It's all here in a fine retrospective. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AMERICA AND THE TINTYPE,' through Jan. 4. This show about the tintype, an early form of photograph made by exposing a lacquered iron plate to light, includes some 200 examples from the museum's collection. Most of the artists, and subjects, are unidentified. These works form a group portrait of Americans, mostly working- and middle-class, struggling to adapt to the rapidly shifting social and economic conditions during the four decades after the Civil War. The exhibition makes the most of the tintype's range of subject matter and emotion, from postmortem shots to vaudevillian caricatures, freedmen to minstrels. It does not dispute the daguerreotype's superior potentials for artistry but simply asserts that tintypes have been unfairly overlooked because of their ubiquity, affordability and anonymity. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'SUSAN MEISELAS: IN HISTORY,' through Jan. 4. A certain moral quandary runs throughout this fascinatingly problematic exhibition: how do you reconcile the demands of professionalism and those of human compassion? To her credit, Ms. Meiselas -- whose coverage of the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua in 1978-79 made her one of the world's most celebrated and criticized war correspondents -- does not duck the question. Tension between opportunism and conscience emerges as the show's main interest -- to the point that it trumps its ostensible subjects, which include strippers in traveling carnivals and forensic investigations of Saddam Hussein's campaign against the Kurds in northern Iraq. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'CHAGALL AND THE ARTISTS OF THE RUSSIAN JEWISH THEATER, 1919-1949,' through March 22. A fascinating tale of two vanguard theater companies that flourished in Moscow for a few years after the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 is told by this big, walk-in scrapbook of a show presenting more than 200 pieces of art and ephemera. Exploring the histories of the Hebrew-speaking Habima theater and the Yiddish-speaking Moscow State Yiddish Theater, the exhibition includes drawings, paintings, photographs, posters, sheet music, costumes and clips from vintage films. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,' through March 22. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive. A related show, ''The Poetics of Cloth: African Textiles/Recent Art,'' is at the Grey Art Gallery at New York University. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EARLY BUDDHIST MANUSCRIPT PAINTING: THE PALM-LEAF TRADITION,' through March 22. Practical features like resilience and portability help explain why books written on dried palm leaves were popular with Buddhists in eastern India between the 10th and 13th centuries. But another factor, surely, was the quality of the illustrations that accompanied the texts: exquisite figures of divinities or scenes from the Buddha's life. And few of these are as finely done and pristinely preserved as the examples in this small selection. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'GIORGIO MORANDI, 1890-1964,' through Dec. 14. Aspirants to the role of painter as poet are many. Giorgio Morandi (1890-1964) was the real thing. And this Morandi retrospective at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is something that anyone who loves painting and its very specific poetry will want to see. Morandi's still lifes are beautiful, but with a distinctive kind of beauty. And despite their small size and plain components -- bottles, jars, boxes, pots, seashells, vases -- they are emotionally audacious. This isn't because of what they say outright, but because of what they don't say; because they are so evidently shaped by self-restraint, and the passions that produced it. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'LANDSCAPES CLEAR AND RADIANT: THE ART OF WANG HUI (1632-1717),' through Jan. 4. The Met's first solo show devoted to a Chinese master is gorgeous and revelatory; its focus is the landscape virtuoso Wang Hui, star of the 17th-century Chinese art scene. Wang could do anything and did, synthesizing and transforming disparate strands of almost a millennium of Chinese painting, but also making exact copies of earlier masterpieces. Distinguished by a Mozart-like ease and perfection, his work unsettles Western notions of copy, original and originality. It is aided in this by displays of works by 16 earlier artists dating to the 10th-century -- his mentors, his mentors' mentors and the artists they all revered -- which form a dazzling introduction to Chinese painting in general. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO YEARS: CURATORS CELEBRATE THREE DECADES OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 1. As the title implies, the show is a tribute to Mr. de Montebello, who is leaving the Met after being director for more than 30 years. For the occasion, curators in 17 of the museum departments have chosen objects in their fields of expertise from the permanent collection. There are marvelous things here, from Chinese scrolls, Greek vessels and Oceanic effigies to Byzantine icons and an 18th-century American pickle-holder. In short, a wonder-cabinet situation. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'RHYTHMS OF MODERN LIFE: BRITISH PRINTS 1914-1939,' through Dec. 7. This interesting but confusingly organized exhibition considers the impact of modernity and machine-age idealism on 13 progressive British printmakers. Much of the show is given over to a group of artists active in the 1920s and '30s -- including Claude Flight, Cyril E. Power and Sybil Andrews -- who created colorful linocuts in a lively synthesis of Cubism, Futurism and Art Deco. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: JOHN MILTON'S 'PARADISE LOST,' through Jan. 4. To honor Milton's quadricentennial, eight of the pages of the only known surviving manuscript of Book 1 of ''Paradise Lost'' are on view, along with other Miltoniana, including a first edition and a miniature portrait believed to be of the poet. The handwriting is a scribe's; Milton, who was blind, composed the work orally. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org.
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through Feb. 15. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a loveseat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knock-offs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JOAN MIRO: PAINTING AND ANTI-PAINTING 1927-1937,' through Jan. 12. When, in 1927, Joan Miro said, ''I want to assassinate painting,'' he wasn't saying anything new. What was new was the way he carried out his self-assigned, cut-throat task. And that process is the subject of this invigorating, absorbing and -- Miro would be mortified -- beautiful show. It illustrates, step by step, how he stalked and attacked painting -- zapped its conventions, messed up its history, spoiled its market value -- through distinctive groups of experimental works produced over a decade. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LOOKING AT MUSIC,' through Jan. 5. This exhibition of about 40 works from the museum's collection emphasizes the experimental nature of both art and music in the late 1960s and early '70s. The lines dividing art, music and film were blurry enough to allow Laurie Anderson, Bruce Nauman and Yoko Ono, among others, to shift from object making to performance and back again. The show, which includes audio recordings and small-press publications alongside more conventional mediums, is accompanied by an extensive film and video program. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY 2008: JOSEPHINE MECKSEPER AND MIKHAEL SUBOTZKY,' through Jan. 5. Josephine Meckseper, a German-born artist in her 40s who was trained at the California Institute of the Arts, makes sleek-looking installations that mix photography and film -- often scenes of political protest -- with consumer objects. The South African artist Mikhael Subotzky, who at 26 is the youngest photographer to have been invited to join the Magnum Group, explores his country's prison system in vivid color and unflinching detail. If Ms. Meckseper finds glossy, consumerist fantasy infiltrating our political consciousness, Mr. Subotzky reminds us that some people don't yet have the luxury of fretting about the commodification of dissent. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'VAN GOGH AND THE COLORS OF THE NIGHT,' through Jan. 5. This small, anomalous exhibition is a Van Gogh antiblockbuster with a seemingly counterintuitive theme, given the importance of the brilliant light of southern France to his art. It explores Van Gogh's special relationship with darkness, where his interests in perception, color and symbolism fuse with unexpected intensity. And seeing a manageable number of Van Goghs -- including masterpieces like ''The Potato Eaters,'' ''The Starry Night'' and ''Night Cafe'' -- in intimate galleries is thrilling. (See above.) (Smith)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'GEORGE TOOKER: A RETROSPECTIVE,' through Jan. 4. George Tooker has painted some of the 20th century's most memorable images of angst. With its lost souls haunting the New York underground, ''Subway'' (1950) envisions modernity as a spiritual prison system. The Kafkaesque ''Government Bureau'' (1956) pictures an office of seemingly infinite dimensions, where people wait like penitents at the windows of terminally unresponsive bureaucrats. Both paintings are included in this richly affecting five-decade career retrospective. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Johnson)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON,' through Jan. 11. This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 NEW MUSEUM: 'MARY HEILMANN: TO BE SOMEONE,' through Jan. 26. Over the past four decades Ms. Heilmann has been painting with an infectious, unabashedly hedonistic joie de vivre. Working with big brushes and generous quantities of paint, she continues to produce wildly colorful abstractions that riff with irreverent verve on basic elements of Modernist painting: the grid, the monochromatic rectangle, stripes, organic forms, linear webs, spots, checks and drips. This exhilarating retrospective presents works dating from 1967 to the present. (See above.) (Johnson)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through April 13. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN BLACK CULTURE: 'AARON DOUGLAS: AFRICAN-AMERICAN MODERNIST,' through Nov. 30. In 1920s New York a great flowering of black culture emerged that came to be known as the Harlem Renaissance. No visual artist expressed that movement's euphoric sense of possibility with greater verve than the subject of this valuable exhibition, the painter, illustrator and muralist Aaron Douglas. His major works feature semitransparent silhouettes of black people in heroic poses overlaid by concentric, circular bands of light. Rendered in muted, luminous colors, they project visionary romanticism in a suave, Art Deco-like style. 515 Malcolm X Boulevard, at 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2200, nypl.org/research/sc. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WILLIAM EGGLESTON: DEMOCRATIC CAMERA,' through Jan. 25. When William Eggleston's color, snapshot-like photographs of his home territory in the American South were shown at the Museum of Modern Art in 1976, critics squawked that the work was vulgar and haphazard. But these pictures quickly became influential classics. And that's how they look in this 40-year retrospective at the Whitney, the artist's first New York museum solo since his seditious debut. The show includes a recently edited version of Mr. Eggleston's cruel, unusual and ultimately revolting video epic ''Stranded in Canton.'' (See above.) (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 LIZA LOU It's no coincidence that Liza Lou's first New York appearance since a 2002 solo in SoHo takes place in an uptown town house and a Park Avenue lobby. Ms. Lou, a sculptor who makes hand-beaded versions of everyday objects and environments, has shifted from immersive installations (like the ''Kitchen'' and ''Back Yard'' exhibited at the New Museum in the mid-'90s) to highly marketable sculptures and relief paintings. The transition isn't all bad. Ms. Lou's beadwork is still dazzling, and she is certainly experimenting with different genres. The showstopper is ''Security Fence'' (2005-7), a shimmering 10-foot-square enclosure of barbed wire and chain-link steel completely covered with silver beads. (A similar sculpture, ''Maximum Security Fence,'' is on view in the lobby of Lever House, 390 Park Avenue, at 54th Street, through Nov. 29.) L & M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com; through Dec. 13. (Rosenberg)
 'PICASSO'S MARIE-THEReSE' In 2006 Steve Wynn, of Las Vegas casino fame, was set to sell ''The Dream,'' a Picasso he owned, for the record price of $139 million. Then one day, while showing the collection to friends, he put his elbow through the painting. The sale was off; the picture was patched. Now it's the centerpiece of a gallery show with several other paintings of Marie-Therese Walter, Picasso's lover, with most of them on loan from museums. Close inspection reveals no visible trace of the elbow malfunction in Mr. Wynn's picture, though it does reaffirm Picasso's penchant for producing kitsch. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com; through Nov. 29. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 CHARLES GAINES: 'MANIFESTOS' The politically charged texts scrolling up flat-screen monitors in this poetically resonant and conceptually intriguing exhibition are manifestos from movements like the Black Panthers and the Zapatistas. The minor-key music that accompanies them -- composed using a John Cage-like system of chance and played by a piano quintet -- is beautiful and soothing. Kent, 541 West 25th Street, (212) 627-3680, kentgallery.com; through Dec. 20. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 'THE POETICS OF CLOTH' Emphasizing the place of traditional textiles in works by contemporary African artists, this exhibition includes internationally renowned figures like the Nigerian-born Yinka Shonibare and the Ghanaian El Anatsui. One of the show's discoveries, Grace Ndiritu, uses printed fabrics in an evocative four-screen video installation -- allowing her bare limbs to peek out from behind curtains or posing as a mummified Olympia. A related show, ''The Essential Art of African Textiles: Design Without End,'' is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through Dec. 6. (Rosenberg) 
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'R. CRUMB'S UNDERGROUND,' through Dec. 7. The former underground comic artist R. Crumb has created some of the most memorable characters in cartoon history, including the irascible guru Mr. Natural; the suave, shamelessly randy Fritz the Cat; the angry Amazon Devil Girl; and R. Crumb himself, a figure comparable to the autobiographical alter-egos of Woody Allen and Philip Roth. He has been a fearlessly irreverent satirist and an intrepid explorer of his own twisted psyche. And he is excruciatingly funny. This enthralling show presents more than 100 works from all phases of his five-decade career. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON: 'RACHEL WHITEREAD: PLACE (VILLAGE),' through Jan. 25. This exhibition, the centerpiece of the museum's mini-survey devoted to the British sculptor Rachel Whiteread, may strike the artist's admirers as a bizarre and kitschy departure. Viewers who have never seen one of her room-size casts won't really get a sense of her work from this installation, which is making its United States debut. Still, the show, which includes drawings and a few smaller sculptures, reveals the more emotive side of an artist who can come off as somber and humorless. 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, mfa.org. (Rosenberg)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'JAN LIEVENS: A DUTCH MASTER REDISCOVERED,' through Jan. 11. Although not a household name now, Jan Lievens once was famous throughout Northern Europe for his portraits and his religious and history paintings. A child prodigy, he was a friend and colleague of Rembrandt's. Early in their careers, the two painters worked closely together, and many of Lievens's paintings later were misattributed to Rembrandt. Lievens was not Rembrandt's equal, but he had his moments, especially in remarkably precocious paintings that he made as a teenager. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Ken Johnson)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'POMPEII AND THE ROMAN VILLA: ART AND CULTURE AROUND THE BAY OF NAPLES,' through March 22. This show about the opulent lifestyle of the Roman elite before the A.D. 79 eruption of Vesuvius includes recent discoveries on view in the United States for the first time, as well as finds from excavations dating to the mid-18th century. The galleries unfold according to the floor plan of a typical villa, and the installation -- which includes decorative columns, wall borders, living plants and reproductions of mosaics -- works hard to maintain the illusion of classical architecture. The exhibition moves from artifacts reflecting ancient Romans' infatuation with Greek culture to the rediscovery of Pompeii by 18th-century Europeans, suggesting that every culture finds affirmation of its taste and sophistication in a previous golden age. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 Last Chance
 GREGORY AMENOFF: 'PAINTINGS' In most of Mr. Amenoff's robustly painted, easel-scale landscapes, a large, mysterious form -- botanical, geological or geometric -- looms up close against a distant vista. Color and contrasts of light and dark are pumped up to visionary effect. The show is stolen, however, by a series of glowing paintings of flowers made with a loose, prehensile touch on 10-inch-square panels. Alexandre Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 755-2828, alexandregallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 SARAH BEDDINGTON: 'CROSSING' This multimedia solo show by Ms. Beddington, a British artist, evokes the journey of the Experiment, the second sailing ship to make a direct crossing from the United States to China at the end of the 18th century. A 20-foot-long silverpoint map traces the voyage down the Hudson River from Albany, where the ship was built; a three-channel video follows the voyage at sea, mixing past and present, reality and mirage; a sound piece adds maritime atmosphere. The gallery setting, in an area of Brooklyn once associated with shipping, is ideal. Dumbo Arts Center, 30 Washington Street, Brooklyn, (718) 694-0831, dumboartscenter.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 KIRK HAYES: 'LAUNCHED TO SINK' Mr. Hayes's works appear to be collages made of torn pieces of paper and cardboard, masking tape and bits of wood. Look closely, however, and you discover that, amazingly, most of what you see is actually carefully painted. While intimating bitter-sweet, obliquely autobiographical narratives, Mr. Hayes's works slyly comment on modern art's love of the raw and the naive. Sunday L.E.S., 237 Eldridge Street, near East Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0700, sundaynyc.com; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 KATARZYNA KOZYRA: 'SUMMERTALE' This Polish multimedia provocateur offers a zany 20-minute film telling a murderous, fairy-tale-like story about a quintet of midget women who live in a rustic cottage and three full-grown people who emerge from giant mushrooms: a tall, red-haired drag queen; a male opera singer; and an innocent girl played by Ms. Kozyra. It is, by turns, funny, mysterious and horrific. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 BEATRIZ MILHAZES This painter of ebullient, circle-oriented abstractions nervily hangs one painting on each wall of the gallery's large front space -- and it works. Her overheated colors and intersecting orbs suggest chandeliers, lanterns and party decorations, but also gears. Their slightly worn surfaces, suggestive of old signs, are made by a no-brush method that uses painted decals and balances the festive look with a worldly, unprecious mood. James Cohan Gallery, 533 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-9500; closes on Saturday. (Smith) 
 NASREEN MOHAMEDI: 'THE GRID, UNPLUGGED' This show of large, abstract drawings is the third New York solo of work by the Indian artist Nasreen Mohamedi (1937-1990), and the most beautiful yet, which means it's as about as beautiful as gallery shows get. Born to a Muslim family, Mohamedi studied art in London and Paris and was fully conversant with contemporary art in the West. Her major influences, though, were Islamic architecture, the modern urban landscape and fellow South Asian artists working in abstract, linear styles. This deeply moving show also includes digital excerpts from her poetic notebooks. Talwar Gallery, 108 East 16th Street, (212) 673-3096, talwargallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 KEN PRICE: 'WORKS FROM THE LATE '80S' The latest show devoted to one phase of this great ceramic sculptor's singular career features brilliantly colored blobs whose rough surfaces are sliced to reveal smooth planes of contrasting hues with small, crisply cut openings at their centers. Two kinds of being and one kind of nothingness. Franklin Parrasch Gallery, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 246-5360, franklinparrasch.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith) 
 TADASKY In the 1960s Tadasky (Tadasuke Kuwayama) painted optically captivating compositions of concentric rings on square canvases. Excellent examples are included in a retrospective exhibition in D. Wigmore's ''Four Optic Visionaries,'' which also features works by Richard Anuszkiewicz, Sue Fuller and Mon Levinson, who were all included, along with Tadasky, in the Museum of Modern Art's famous 1965 exhibition ''The Responsive Eye.'' D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); OLYMPICS (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); RELIGION (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); NIGERIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



589 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
CLASSICAL
 Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.
 Opera
 * LA DAMNATION DE FAUST (Friday and Tuesday) The most-talked-about element of the director Robert Lepage's new production of Berlioz's ''Damnation de Faust'' is sure to be its stunning use of interactive video. Detailed images of grassy fields, fiery hells and more morph and change in response to the movements and singing of the cast. The big news, though, is the magnificent performance that James Levine draws from the orchestra, and the robust singing of the Met's remarkable chorus, which continues to thrive under its chorus master, Donald Palumbo. In the title role, the tenor Marcello Giordani gives an impassioned and intelligent, but vocally uneven, performance, marred by a wobbly vibrato. The superb mezzo-soprano Susan Graham is an affecting Marguerite. And despite a campy costume, the bass-baritone John Relyea brings stentorian power and wily lyricism to the role of Mephistopheles. (Through Dec. 4.) At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $80 to $205. (Anthony Tommasini) 
 'MARIE GALANTE' (Saturday and Sunday) The adventurous French Institute Alliance Francaise is billing its production of Kurt Weill's ''Marie Galante'' as the United States premiere of the work. The production is based on a fully restored orchestral score and reconstruction of the original play by Jacques Deval. Steeped in French cabaret, the story tells of a young woman abducted in France and taken by a lecherous ship captain to South America and eventually abandoned on an exotic island. The dynamic soprano Isabel Bayrakdarian sings the title role, and Yves Abel conducts. Although the music will be sung in French with titles, the dialogue will be spoken in English. Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Gould Hall, French Institute Alliance Francaise, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com; $50 to $80. (Tommasini)
 'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Saturday and Wednesday) Last season the excellent American soprano Patricia Racette won some of her best reviews for her portrayal of the fragile and tormented Cio-Cio San in the Met's revival of Anthony Minghella's sumptuously colorful production of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly.'' Ms. Racette has returned to the role in the Met's revival of the production, with the tenor Roberto Aronica as Pinkerton, and Patrick Summers conducting. (Also on Nov. 22.) At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, 212 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $220. (Tommasini)
 'LA TRAVIATA' (Saturday and Thursday) For ''Traviata'' fans turned off by the flamboyance of Franco Zeffirelli's 1998 staging, the German soprano Anja Harteros, singing Violetta for the first time at the house, provides reason to venture back. She sings with a fluid and elegantly dark-hued voice and conveys the same vulnerability as she did last season in a noteworthy portrayal of the Countess in Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro.'' Massimo Giordano, a bright-voiced Italian tenor, sings Alfredo. Zeljko Lucic sings Germont on Saturday, and Andrzej Dobber takes the role on Thursday. Paolo Carignani makes a worthy Met debut conducting. Saturday at 1 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $120 to $375 remaining on Saturday; $80 to $375 remaining on Thursday. 
 (Vivien Schweitzer)
 Classical Music
 AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA(Friday) This new-music orchestra has been reconsidering its mission in recent years -- as has the new-music genre in general, as young composers and players increasingly bring popular and cross-cultural influences to their work. In this installment of the group's Orchestra Underground series, Jeffrey Milarsky leads an eclectic program that includes the saxophonist and composer Fred Ho's ''When the Real Dragons Fly,'' with Mr. Ho as the soloist, and Keeril Makan's ''Dream Lightly'' for electric guitar and orchestra, with Seth Josel as the soloist. Included as well: Kamran Ince's ''Domes,'' Greg Spears's ''Finishing'' and Clint Needham's Chamber Symphony. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $38 to $48. 
 (Allan Kozinn)
 CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Sunday and Thursday) On Sunday the society celebrates the 25th anniversary of the Carnegie Hall debut of the violinist sisters Ida and Ani Kavafian, who will perform a program that includes Prokofiev's Sonata for Two Violins (Op. 56), Berio's Duets for Two Violins, Moszkowski's Suite for Two Violins and Piano in G minor and Mozart's Sinfonia Concertante in E flat. On Thursday the four-concert ''Night Fantasies'' series opens, driven by the theme of night and the music it has inspired. Thursday's program includes Elliott Carter's Night Fantasies for Solo Piano, Debussy's Jeux for Two Pianos and George Crumb's ''Music for a Summer Evening.'' There will be a symposium with Klaus Lauer (curator of the series), Mr. Crumb and the performers on Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in the Rose Studio, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, 10th floor. Sunday at 5 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $32 to $58 on Sunday; $25 to $50 on Thursday. The symposium is $15 or free to all ''Night Fantasies'' ticket-holders. (Schweitzer)
 JASON ECKARDT (Thursday) This composer, now in his late 30s, writes music in an eclectic style that is both alluring and complex, with prickly harmonic textures offset by humor and youthful freshness. This Composer Portraits concert by Ensemble 21, with the soprano Tony Arnold, the flutist David Fedele and the cellist Christopher Finckel, includes two world premieres -- ''This Distance (This)'' and ''Undersong'' -- as well as several other works composed since 2003. James Baker conducts. At 8 p.m., Miller Theater at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $25. (Kozinn)
 RICHARD EGGAR (Tuesday) Time was when concert performances of Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier,'' either book or both, were few and far between. But lately these extraordinary collections of preludes and fugues in every major and minor key have become increasingly regular highlights of the concert season. Often they have been performed on the piano. Richard Eggar's harpsichord traversal promises to be both illuminating and varied. At 7:30 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $44. (Kozinn)
 EIGHTH BLACKBIRD (Friday) One of the most polished and energetic new-music bands around, Eighth Blackbird performs Frederic Rzewski's ''Knight, Death and the Devil,'' his reworkings of historical war songs, as well as his early Minimalist work ''Les Moutons de Panurge,'' and Steve Reich's recent Double Sextet. At 8 p.m., the Kitchen. 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5973, thekitchen.org; $15. (Kozinn)
 ISRAEL PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA (Sunday and Monday) Gustavo Dudamel, the young Venezuelan firebrand who will begin his tenure as music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic next season, leads the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra as part of the citywide Bernstein festival. Sunday's program includes Bernstein's ''Halil'' (with the flutist Eyal Ein-Habar); Bernstein's Concerto for Orchestra, ''Jubilee Games,'' with the baritone David McFerrin; and Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 4. On Monday Mr. Dudamel will conduct the violinist Pinchas Zukerman in Bruch's Violin Concerto No. 1 and Bach's Concerto for Two Violins and Orchestra in D minor. The program concludes with Brahms's Symphony No. 4. Sunday at 2 p.m., Monday at 7 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $41 to $129. (Schweitzer)
 JUILLIARD QUARTET (Saturday) In 1900, when the series that became the People's Symphony Concerts got going, an individual ticket cost 10 cents. Amazingly, tickets for the 12 Saturday night concerts this season go for only $10 each, which, adjusted for inflation over 108 years, is hardly an increase. On Saturday evening the series continues with the renowned Juilliard Quartet in a program of works by Haydn, the living French master Henri Dutilleux and Beethoven (the late String Quartet in E flat, Op. 127). Washington Irving High School is a wonderfully homey and acoustically lively place to hear chamber music, and a six-concert subscription brings the ticket price down to just about $5.35 each -- one of the best deals in town. At 8 p.m., 40 Irving Place, at 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $10. (Tommasini)
 KIROV ORCHESTRA OF THE MARYINSKY THEATER (Sunday and Monday) Though national traditions of music making may be losing some distinctiveness in our increasingly globalized world, Valery Gergiev and the players from the Kirov Orchestra of the Maryinsky Theater in St. Petersburg have a special claim on the music of Prokofiev. This they proved with utterly arresting and authoritative performances of ballet scores in the first of four concerts devoted to his theatrical works. The final two are this weekend: a concert performance of the opera ''The Love for Three Oranges'' and a film music program, with ''Ivan the Terrible'' and ''Alexander Nevsky.'' Sunday at 3 p.m.; Monday at 8 p.m.; Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $90. (Tommasini)
 THE NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG (Tuesday and Thursday) In a program titled ''Fugitives,'' Michael Barrett and Steven Blier[, who direct the popular New York Festival of Song, turn to works by the many composers who were oppressed during the Nazi era in Germany, both those who never made it out and those who fled abroad, especially to America, where they worked on Broadway and in Hollywood. There will be songs by Kurt Weill, Franz Schreker, Hanns Eisler and others. Two steadily emerging artists, the mezzo-soprano Kate Lindsey and the tenor Joseph Kaiser, will sing, accompanied by Mr. Blier. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3303, kaufman-center.org; $40 to $55; $15 for student balcony seats. (Tommasini)
 GARRICK OHLSSON (Saturday) This thoughtful pianist devotes his program entirely to the quirky music of Scriabin, as part of the 92nd Street Y's Russian Evolutions series. Included on the program are the Sonatas Nos. 2, 5 and 10, as well as ''Desir,'' ''Vers la Flamme'' and groups of Etudes and Preludes. At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $38 to $48; $25 for under 35. (Kozinn)
 VADIM REPIN AND NIKOLAI LUGANSKY (Friday) Two Russian virtuosos -- the violinist Vadim Repin and the pianist Nikolai Lugansky -- team up for three major works of the violin-piano repertory. As part of the Great Performers series, they will play Debussy's Sonata for Violin and Piano in G minor, Prokofiev's Sonata No .1 in F minor and Beethoven's Violin Sonata No. 9 in A major (''Kreutzer''). At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $30 to $60. (Schweitzer)
 WARSAW PHILHARMONIC (Saturday and Monday) This admirable orchestra, conducted by Antoni Wit, offers a program of Karlowicz's Serenade (Op. 2), Brahms's Symphony No. 2 in D and Liszt's Piano Concerto No. 1 in E flat, with the pianist Valentina Lisitsa as soloist, on Monday at the Met. The Philharmonic will also perform on Saturday at the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, where the program includes the Karlowicz serenade and the Liszt concerto with Ms. Lisitsa, as well as Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 6, ''Pathetique.'' Saturday at 8 p.m., C. W. Post campus of Long Island University, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100, tillescenter.org; $50 to $90. Monday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $45. (Schweitzer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FRENCH INSTITUTE/ALLIANCE FRANCAISE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



590 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; BREAKING GROUND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Gansevoort Toronto Hotel & Residences and Prospect at Mount Crested Butte

BYLINE: By NICK KAYE

 BODY:
Gansevoort Toronto Hotel & Residences
 WHAT Urban residential resort.
 WHERE Toronto.
 AMENITIES A rooftop swimming pool and lounge, among others.
 PRICES Starting around $500,000.
 STATUS Sales are planned to begin early next year. Construction should start in early 2010, and the opening of the project is expected in 2012. 
 DEVELOPERS TAS DesignBuild and the Gansevoort Hotel Group. 
 CONTACT www.gansevoorttoronto.com. 
 DETAILS It has been less than five years since the first Gansevoort hotel helped breathe life into the now ultra-fashionable meatpacking district of Manhattan, and in that time the brand has pushed to cement itself among the top names of the luxury development world. Last March, a second Gansevoort project, its first with residences, opened in South Beach in Miami, and another hotel in New York is planned to open in fall 2010 on Park Avenue South. That may seem like quite a lot of activity for a still-young brand, especially in the current economic climate, but Gansevoort seems to be showing no signs of slowing down. Now a fourth project, this one on Richmond Street West in downtown Toronto's entertainment district, is on the way. Plans call for 150 hotel rooms and 120 whole-ownership studio-to-three-bedroom residences in a modern, cubist-looking 35-story tower. The residences, from 700 to 4,000 square feet, will have large terraces with gardens hanging over their sides, and owners will be able to enter their units in a rental program to serve as hotel rooms while they are away. Also planned are a full-service spa and the rooftop area with a heated outdoor pool, lounge and a bar. The development's plans also include a significant effort toward energy efficiency and sustainable building techniques; it is seeking LEED certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. 
 Prospect at Mount Crested Butte
 WHAT Residential community at a popular ski resort.
 WHERE Crested Butte, Colo.
 AMENITIES Ski-in, ski-out access and nearby restaurants and shops, among others.
 PRICES Homesites start at around $1 million and houses start at around $5 million. 
 STATUS Sites and houses available now and under construction. Projects including condominiums are to be added later.
 DEVELOPER Crested Butte Mountain Resort.
 CONTACT (877) 805-6109 or www.cbliving.com.
 DETAILS Ski areas all around North America have been undergoing major makeovers in recent years, and Crested Butte, the somewhat low-key resort in west central Colorado about four hours from Denver, is no exception. The resort, which opened in 1962, was purchased in 2004 by Tim and Diane Mueller, who also own the Okemo Mountain Resort in Vermont, and since then money has flowed in for projects like additional terrain, new lifts and a number of residential developments. One focal point of the resort's current buildup is the Prospect neighborhood, 400 on-mountain acres with space for about 300 residences. Currently available from the developer are 13 homesites, averaging just over an acre each, as well as three four- to seven-bedroom houses, including one, shown in an illustration above and expected to be completed next September, that is being constructed partly from materials taken from an old mining bunkhouse in nearby Ohio City, Colo. Additional sites, already purchased, are being offered for resale. A separately developed section of the neighborhood, called Wildhorse (www.wildhorseatprospect.com) offers houses starting at $1.16 million. Three lifts connect Prospect to the resort's terrain, now 1,167 acres in all. The Gunnison-Crested Butte Regional Airport will have direct flights this winter from Chicago, Atlanta and elsewhere.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESORTS (89%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MOUNTAINS (88%); SKIING (88%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: CRESTED BUTTE MOUNTAIN RESORT INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



591 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price Decline Shrinks Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Two government reports released Thursday showed continuing signs of weakness in the economy.
 A decline in crude oil prices helped to narrow the United States trade deficit in September, but both imports and exports fell sharply. 
 Separately, a report from the Labor Department showed that first-time claims for jobless benefits in the week that ended Nov. 8 increased to 516,000, an increase of 32,000 from the previous week. The Labor Department also reported that the number of Americans collecting jobless benefits jumped to 3.9 million in the week that ended Nov. 1, hitting a 25-year high.
 Announcements of job cuts at companies including Citigroup, the Goldman Sachs Group, Ford Motor and Circuit City Stores will probably add to unemployment claims in the weeks ahead.
 The Commerce Department reported Thursday that the trade deficit shrank by $2.6 billion, or 4.4 percent, to $56.5 billion in September, from $59.1 billion a month earlier. Much of that resulted from a 15.7 percent decline in petroleum imports as prices for crude oil declined throughout the month. Crude oil is now trading at less than $60 a barrel.
 Excluding oil, the deficit widened to $35.5 billion in September, from $33.7 billion in August, as American exports slumped, said James O'Sullivan, United States economist at UBS. American exports fell $9.9 billion from August to September.
 ''It's reflecting weakening domestic as well as foreign demand,'' Mr. O'Sullivan said. ''In some sense, they offset each other.''
 In total, the United States exported $155.4 billion in goods and services in September, a 6 percent decline from the previous month. Overall imports declined 5.6 percent, to $211.9 billion.
 America's oil imports fell by $7 billion from August to September. Economists said they expected numbers for crude oil imports to keep sliding as government data catches up with oil's falling prices and consumption. 
 Demand slackened for a range of foreign goods in September. Imports of raw materials fell as American industrial output slowed, and the American market for foreign-made televisions, computers, clothing, cosmetics, cookware and other goods also shrank.
 The United States' trade gap with China widened in September to a record $27.8 billion as exports fell while more Chinese goods and services entered American markets. 
 A 57-day strike by Boeing machinists contributed to slumping export statistics. Exports of civilian aircraft fell by $3.3 billion from August to September, largely a reflection of stilled aircraft production lines at Boeing, economists said.
 Stephen Stanley, chief United States economist at RBS Greenwich, said that the overall trade gap would continue to narrow as American consumers cut back on their purchases, reducing the demand for foreign-made stereos and plasma-screen televisions.
 ''We're not selling luxury consumer goods to Europe. We're selling capital goods to developing countries,'' Mr. Stanley said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Veterans applied for New York State jobs at a career fair at the New Yorker Hotel in Manhattan Thursday. For last week, the federal government reported 516,000 new unemployment claims. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
 September 2008: Balance $ 56.47 billion (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); STRIKES (77%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (74%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); COSMETICS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (65%); AIRCRAFT MFG (63%); LUXURY GOODS (61%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (56%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



592 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Let's Have Another Cup of Coffee

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KINSLEY. 
Michael Kinsley is a columnist for Time magazine.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 STROLLING through the Pentagon City Costco last week, I could feel my consumer confidence draining away. Even the bargains at Linens 'n Things around the corner, which is going out of business, didn't tempt me. 
 This is new. I used to be a pretty confident consumer. Not long ago, if I had seen the Cuisinart coffee maker that even grinds the beans on an automatic timer, it would have been the work of minutes to goose myself into a state of confidence that this is something I really need. Just think about how sleek it would look on the kitchen counter. Imagine being awakened by the gentle sound of the authentic burr grinder and the aroma of coffee wafting into the bedroom. Say goodbye to that tense interval between the time my wife wakes up and the moment hot coffee brings a smile to her lips. It would even be educational: I would learn what on earth a ''burr grinder'' is. 
 To be honest, I had been eyeing this machine elsewhere at $200. Poor, bedraggled Linens 'n Things was desperately offering its remaining supply for only $179. The store was decorated appropriately for Christmas with festive little signs declaring all sales final, and colorful reminders that if you were thinking of paying with any coupons you may have received in jollier times, forget it. ''Don't you understand?'' the store seemed to sulk. ''We're going out of business.''
 So just take your bargain coffee maker. Take those chirpy orange Rachael Ray pots and pans that look as if they're too stupid to understand why the other pans are so Gloomy-Gus gray. Take your linens and take your things and go. Let us grieve. See you at Bed, Bath & Beyond.
 But ultimately even the bargain didn't seduce me. My mind followed an unfamiliar path. I thought of all the coffee makers we already have, and how each of them had let us down. I thought about another clock to reset twice a year or face its accusatory blinking in the kitchen dark. I asked myself whether attempting to master another set of instructions written in English as a Second Language was really the best use of a month of my time. 
 For possibly the first time ever, I considered the question of getting the thing home (the issue: juggle coffee maker and fare card on the Metro, or eat up my bargain with a $20 cab ride) before I owned it rather than after. I even remembered -- as I had vowed to do the last time my consumer confidence boiled over like this -- the trauma of disposing the corrugated cardboard box and all those infuriating blocks of Styrofoam. I went home empty-handed, and my consumer confidence was shot.
 I'm not the only one. ''Consumer confidence'' is plummeting nationwide. Those famous attitude surveys from the University of Michigan say so and actual consumption statistics confirm it. October retail sales were down double digits from a year ago. Most of this drop represents people who suddenly are poorer, or feel that way. But there also is some concern that the great American shopping spree may be over. We have all the stuff we need. 
 What do they want from us, anyway? Without consumers to lead the charge, an economic recovery will be hard to achieve. And yet everyone agrees that we need to start saving more. So should I buy that coffee maker to stimulate the economy? Or should I save the money in order to ''grow'' the economy and provide for my own old age? I can't do both.
 This is the dilemma that 30 years of Reaganomics (the real Reaganomics -- keeping the economy overstimulated with huge deficits and irresponsible consumer borrowing -- not the fantasy Reaganomics of government run like a family and tax cuts that pay for themselves) has left us with. So what do we do? The nearest thing to an actual plan seems to be something like this: stimulate first, to avert various short-term disasters, and then -- at some signal from the Treasury Department -- turn around and start saving like mad, to avert various long-term disasters. In other words, we need to get back our consumer confidence, and then lose it again.
 The first part is fun. We just keep doing what we've been doing, only more and faster. The deficit may soar to $1 trillion a year while the government hands out cash to whoever shows up at the teller's window. Each of us can do our own bit as well. Show your consumer confidence. One last shopping spree. Buy that coffee maker whether you want one or not.
 Part II will not be fun. Return the coffee maker (if the store is still in business), and deposit the money in your 401(k). Start drinking instant. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); BED BATH & LINEN SHOPS (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%)

COMPANY: LINENS 'N THINGS INC (58%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (53%)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (53%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



593 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: A Wine Tour At the Corner Of Oak and Vine

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
VISITING wine country usually brings to mind sun-dappled hillsides dotted with vineyards, winding country roads and stone chateaus. There are always small towns flush with boutiques and fine restaurants tucked down side roads. Galleries with well-known artists on their walls and symphonies with the latest hot musicians seem to call the area home. 
 That's not what you'll find at JC Cellars or Dashe Cellars, a quick exit off the Interstate near downtown Oakland, Calif. Rows of warehouses line nearby side streets. A restaurant supply store sits on the corner and a gas station advertises cheap hot dogs. If the winery that the two businesses share weren't painted dark red, with their names in gold lettering, you might miss it. Yet it is here among the warehouses and parking lots that young winemakers, like Jeff Cohn of JC Cellars and Michael Dashe of Dashe Cellars, are opening shop. 
 A small group of vintners is ditching the countryside and opening wineries in old factories and industrial showrooms -- even on a former naval base -- in cities across the country. Rather than scenic vineyards and rolling hills, these winemakers have skyscrapers and the corner deli for company. 
 While the San Francisco Bay Area has the largest concentration of urban wineries -- 18 at my last count -- because there are so many nearby vineyards, clusters of them can be found in Seattle; Portland, Ore.; and New York. Lone wineries are also shooting up in places not typically associated with wine, like Cincinnati, Kansas City and Dallas. 
 Even the Brooklyn waterfront in Williamsburg has its own winery. In February, Greg Sandor opened Bridge Urban Winery so he could move production of his Long Island wines to the city. With views of the Williamsburg Bridge from the sleek metal bar, this winery looks more like a wine bar you'd find in the West Village or SoHo than one that's a few blocks from Peter Luger Steak House. While Mr. Sandor awaits permits to make wine there, by next year's harvest, he hopes, he is pouring all 20 of his wines by the glass, as well as what he thinks are the best examples of New York wine. 
 ''We're trying to bring the vineyard to the city,'' Mr. Sandor said. 
 Stratospheric land prices keep many vintners city-bound. Without deep pockets, winemakers can't afford to buy vineyard land, which can cost as much as $100,000 an acre in well-known areas like Napa, or to build a fancy chateau for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Buying land, planting vines and building a winery is then largely left to those who have made their fortunes in other professions. 
 ''My wife and I are academics; we didn't come from software or Wall Street. This is what we could afford,'' said Tim Sorenson, the winemaker and co-owner, with his wife, Nancy Rivenburgh, at Fall Line Winery in Seattle and an economics professor. ''It's not romantic, but it works.''
 Not having the bank account of a Mondavi or a Gallo gives urban wineries a decidedly homegrown feel. There are usually no tour buses parked out front or slick tasting rooms selling knickknacks with painted grapes. These tasting rooms may have a bar or simply a wood plank laid across several barrels. 
 Some even offer food and wine pairings, like Bridge Urban Winery, which serves its own wines and others from New York alongside local cheeses, meats and produce. There's also jazz several nights a week.
 Hours are as varied as the winemakers. Some wineries are open part of the week, others only by appointment. But all promise something a large winery generally cannot: Winemakers are usually the ones behind the bar pouring wines, offering impromptu tours, even answering questions about what to drink with dinner.
 ''We're thinking of making pizza on the grill tonight. Which wine should we have?'' asked Connie Butters, a JC Cellars customer.
 Mr. Cohn, JC Cellars' winemaker and owner, could have smirked (he has produced wine with some of the best vintners in France and made his name with one of the Bay Area's biggest wineries), but instead he pointed to two of his syrahs. ''Try one of these. Whichever one you choose will be great.''
 Most winemakers have been tied to their vineyards, but in the last decade many are realizing they can make wine wherever they want. Refrigerated trucks and cold storage have made the move easier. 
 ''If you're buying grapes, what difference does it make whether you crush them in the city or in the countryside?'' said Paul Lukacs, author of ''American Vintage: The Rise of American Wine.'' 
 Opening a winery in town also makes it easier to sell and market your wine. When vintners are closer to restaurants or average wine drinkers, they usually have more name recognition. With more than 5,000 wineries in the country and counting, anything a winery can do to stand out helps. 
 ''As much as I love driving out to the vineyards, it was more important to be closer to the markets,'' Mr. Sorenson said. ''If a customer ordered the wrong wine, I can make a delivery the same day. I feel like I need to be here to provide service to restaurants.'' 
 Even grape growers are deciding it's easier to have a winery in the city than on their own land. Michael and Kerry Amigoni, who own a vineyard 35 miles east of Kansas City, opened their winery downtown with a third partner so it would be close to their customers and home. The couple, who have a home and corporate jobs in town, didn't want to deal with the hourlong commute out to the grapes. ''It's out of the way for people to go to,'' said Mr. Amigoni, who is also chief operating officer of a call center company. ''We wanted to bring wine to the people.'' 
 Part of the attraction of urban wineries is that they don't require much of a commitment for visitors. Rather than a long trip to wine country on traffic-choked roads, most city wineries can be reached by public transportation or a short drive. 
 ''People call us from conventions in San Francisco and say they can't rent a car to come see us,'' said Michael Dashe, who makes wine with his wife, Anne, at Dashe Cellars, which they own. ''We tell them to hop on BART and they'll be here in 15 minutes. They're always so excited.'' 
 Some urban wineries are being founded by wine lovers who don't want to move to California. After making wine with his brother in California for the last several years, Michael Dorf started City Winery to merge his love of music and wine. The winery, which lets members make their own wine for $1,500 and up, blends a wine bar and event space in SoHo. A concert series featuring Suzanne Vega, Philip Glass and Steve Earle is in the works. 
 ''I had so much fun making wine, I caught the fever,'' Mr. Dorf said. ''I was giving away bottles to my friends and they all said, I want to make wine.'' 
 On a recent rain-soaked Saturday afternoon, people packed the space that Dashe Cellars and JC Cellars share, sampling wine at a metal bar and scattered barrels. As more ran in to escape the downpour, Mr. Cohn shouted out hellos and ferried glasses of wine to them. 
 ''I can't have you standing around alone; here, have some wine,'' he said.
 Many people were dashing in for a tasting because they didn't want to bother going farther, while others wanted a bottle for their evening meal. Two couples, the Paynes and Butterses, had considered driving to Paso Robles, a two-and-a-half-hour drive away, but decided against it. There were too many errands to do, chores to complete and a football game to watch. 
 ''Napa is an ordeal. It's almost like going to work,'' said Mike Payne of Livermore, Calif., a half-hour-drive to the east. ''You can still do yourown thing and do a wine tasting in the afternoon. You don't have to dedicate a whole weekend to wine tasting.'' 
 Ron Butters, who accompanied Mr. Payne, agreed. ''We're going home to watch football and eat. It's nice to come here. We couldn't do that in Napa.'' 
 IF YOU GO
 Wineries have popped up in cities across the country, giving locals a taste of wine country without leaving town.
 City Winery, 143 Varick Street, New York; (212) 608-0555; www.citywinery.com.
 Bridge Urban Winery, 20 Broadway, Brooklyn; (718) 384-2800; www.bridgeurbanwinery.com.
 JC Cellars, 55 Fourth Street, Oakland, Calif; (510) 465-5900; www.jccellars.com.
 Dashe Cellars, 55 Fourth Street, Oakland, Calif; (510) 452-1800; www.dashecellars.com.
 Fall Line Winery, 6122 Sixth Avenue South, Seattle; (206) 768-9463; www.falllinewinery.com.
 Inland Sea Wines, 1600 Genessee Street, Kansas City, Mo.; (888) 984-9463; www.inlandseawines.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BOUQUET: Angela Anderson, right, at JC Cellars in Oakland, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIKE ARNAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
TASTE OF THE CITY: Above, from left, Jessica Potter, Jen Kruger and Stu Tenold, at the Bridge Urban Winery in Brooklyn. Left, JC Cellars and Dashe Cellars share space in Oakland, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE
 KIKE ARNAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (93%); WINE (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); CITIES (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); MUSIC (72%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



594 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Bailout to Nowhere

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Not so long ago, corporate giants with names like PanAm, ITT and Montgomery Ward roamed the earth. They faded and were replaced by new companies with names like Microsoft, Southwest Airlines and Target. The U.S. became famous for this pattern of decay and new growth. Over time, American government built a bigger safety net so workers could survive the vicissitudes of this creative destruction -- with unemployment insurance and soon, one hopes, health care security. But the government has generally not interfered in the dynamic process itself, which is the source of the country's prosperity.
 But this, apparently, is about to change. Democrats from Barack Obama to Nancy Pelosi want to grant immortality to General Motors, Chrysler and Ford. They have decided to follow an earlier $25 billion loan with a $50 billion bailout, which would inevitably be followed by more billions later, because if these companies are not permitted to go bankrupt now, they never will be. 
 This is a different sort of endeavor than the $750 billion bailout of Wall Street. That money was used to save the financial system itself. It was used to save the capital markets on which the process of creative destruction depends. 
 Granting immortality to Detroit's Big Three does not enhance creative destruction. It retards it. It crosses a line, a bright line. It is not about saving a system; there will still be cars made and sold in America. It is about saving politically powerful corporations. A Detroit bailout would set a precedent for every single politically connected corporation in America. There already is a long line of lobbyists bidding for federal money. If Detroit gets money, then everyone would have a case. After all, are the employees of Circuit City or the newspaper industry inferior to the employees of Chrysler?
 It is all a reminder that the biggest threat to a healthy economy is not the socialists of campaign lore. It's C.E.O.'s. It's politically powerful crony capitalists who use their influence to create a stagnant corporate welfare state.
 If ever the market has rendered a just verdict, it is the one rendered on G.M. and Chrysler. These companies are not innocent victims of this crisis. To read the expert literature on these companies is to read a long litany of miscalculation. Some experts mention the management blunders, some the union contracts and the legacy costs, some the years of poor car design and some the entrenched corporate cultures. 
 There seems to be no one who believes the companies are viable without radical change. A federal cash infusion will not infuse wisdom into management. It will not reduce labor costs. It will not attract talented new employees. As Megan McArdle of The Atlantic wittily put it, ''Working for the Big Three magically combines vast corporate bureaucracy and job insecurity in one completely unattractive package.''
 In short, a bailout will not solve anything -- just postpone things. If this goes through, Big Three executives will make decisions knowing that whatever happens, Uncle Sam will bail them out -- just like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In the meantime, capital that could have gone to successful companies and programs will be directed toward companies with a history of using it badly. 
 The second part of Obama's plan is the creation of an auto czar with vague duties. Other smart people have called for such a czar to reorganize the companies and force the companies to fully embrace green technology and other good things. 
 That would be great, but if Obama was such a fervent believer in the Chinese model of all-powerful technocrats, he should have mentioned it during the campaign. Are we really to believe there exists a czar omniscient, omnipotent and beneficent enough to know how to fix the Big Three? Who is this deity? Are we to believe that political influence will miraculously disappear, that the czar would have absolute power over unions, management, Congress and the White House? Please.
 This is an excruciatingly hard call. A case could be made for keeping the Big Three afloat as a jobs program until the economy gets better and then letting them go bankrupt. But the most persuasive experts argue that bankruptcy is the least horrible option. Airline, steel and retail companies have gone through bankruptcy proceedings and adjusted. It would be a less politically tainted process. Government could use that $50 billion -- and more -- to help the workers who are going to be displaced no matter what. 
 But the larger principle is over the nature of America's political system. Is this country going to slide into progressive corporatism, a merger of corporate and federal power that will inevitably stifle competition, empower corporate and federal bureaucrats and protect entrenched interests? Or is the U.S. going to stick with its historic model: Helping workers weather the storms of a dynamic economy, but preserving the dynamism that is the core of the country's success. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); CONNECTED CORP (66%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



595 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Paying Less, and Saving It

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
Drivers are breathing a sigh of relief as gasoline prices plunge across the country. Gas below $1.50 a gallon has appeared in a few places in recent days, and the national average has dropped almost in half since July, to $2.18 a gallon. 
 But even as worry about gas prices fades, it is being replaced by fear about the broader economy. Each 10-cent drop in gasoline prices puts $12 billion a year back in consumers' pockets. Instead of spending that cash, people are trying to save it or cut their debt, many said in interviews.
 ''All that money is going right into paying off my credit cards,'' said Jose Martinez, 33, as he pumped gas into his Dodge Charger at Ohio Gas Station No. 1 in Cleveland.
 Moreover, the fall in gasoline prices is not translating into improved fortunes for automakers, at least not yet. Consumers said they remained wary of gas-guzzling cars on the theory that prices would rise again. 
 ''I don't think anyone who's been paying attention for the last eight years would think that now is the time to go out and buy a Hummer,'' said Geoff Sundstrom, spokesman for AAA, the automobile club.
 When gasoline topped $4 a gallon this summer, Celeste Vazquez of Cleveland started working 10 hours of overtime every week to make ends meet. But lately, with prices falling below $2 a gallon at many stations here, she has been able to cut her hours.
 ''I finally get to spend time with my kids, which is wonderful,'' said Ms. Vazquez, 34, as she paid $1.93 a gallon to fill her Chrysler PT Cruiser. ''I doubt it will last, though. I'm not about to go buy a new wardrobe or anything.''
 Lower gas prices meant that Art and Lisa Ritchie, who are farmers, could afford to spend $12 on breakfast last week at the Lighthouse Cafe in Lodi, Ohio. But they have no plans to spend tens of thousands of dollars to furnish and landscape their new house.
 ''I'd love to do those big projects,'' said Mr. Ritchie, 49, who farms 16 acres of cherries, peaches, nectarines and figs in northwest Ohio. ''But I just know that gas prices will go right back up.''
 Lower gasoline prices have followed a rapid drop in the price of oil, to less than $59 a barrel on Thursday, from more than $145 a barrel in July. The pace of the recent drop in fuel prices is ''absolutely unprecedented,'' said Tom Kloza, publisher and chief analyst for the Oil Price Information Service. 
 ''People are just excited about it,'' said Dennelle Fisher, director at the Maverik store in Wheatland, Wyo., which was selling gas for $1.45 a gallon on Thursday, and even giving a 2-cent break on that price to people with the store's loyalty cards. ''They come in and they ask how long are we going to keep it down,'' Ms. Fisher said.
 Many experts say they believe that gasoline prices are close to bottoming out and that the national average will hover around $2 a gallon through the holidays before creeping up in the new year.
 In the terrible economic climate, the gas price cut was not enough to bolster consumer spending in October, according to MasterCard SpendingPulse, a report based on MasterCard purchases and estimates of cash, check and other credit card sales.
 ''It would be very surprising if things recovered based solely on gasoline prices,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president of research and analysis of MasterCard Advisors, which produces SpendingPulse.
 Dan Stone certainly has not started spending again. Mr. Stone, of Cleveland, stopped driving his 1996 Dodge Ram pickup on vacations to Arizona and Florida when gas prices rose this year. He also quit buying tickets to Cleveland Indians and Cavaliers games. Now that prices have dropped, the only change he has made is to resume driving his 12-year-old daughter to basketball practice himself instead of arranging car pools. 
 ''I still eat all my meals at home,'' said Mr. Stone, 59, as he filled his pickup's tank recently. ''And I haven't started going back to sports games because I'm pretty sure the gas prices will go right back up.''
 Sitting around the communal table at the Lighthouse Cafe in Lodi, three couples enjoyed breakfast last week before leaving for a group camping trip in the Hocking Hills of Ohio, 150 miles away. One of the campers, Bob Leonard, replaced his Chevrolet S-10 pickup four months ago with a Toyota Prius. His brother, Bill Leonard, 65, swapped his Ford Ranger pickup for a compact Toyota Yaris last year. 
 ''I don't see gas prices staying this low,'' said Bob Leonard, 63, a nutrition adviser from Medina, Ohio. ''I'm glad I bought the Prius when I did.''
 Their friend Bob Keller, 62, had parked his Toyota Highlander S.U.V. and started riding the bus to work in downtown Cleveland. With lower gas prices, riding the bus costs as much as he would spend on gas and parking, but he has not considered switching back.
 ''I get to nap on the bus,'' said Mr. Keller, who works for Cuyahoga County Employment and Family Services. ''Besides, why start driving again when the gas prices will only go right back up?''
 Across the country, high prices seem to have produced lasting changes in public habits. As prices rose, many people parked their cars and took the bus or train, and that change is evidently sticking even as gas falls. At 22 transit systems surveyed last week by the American Public Transportation Association, ridership either stayed the same or increased over the last two months, said Virginia Miller, spokeswoman for the group.
 Likewise, MasterCard Advisors reports show that national gasoline demand remains down compared to previous years -- though by only 3 to 4 percent a week, compared with the 8 or 9 percent drops of earlier this year.
 When prices topped $4 a gallon over the summer, Jim Booth of Cleveland could not afford gas for his 1992 Dodge Caravan to visit his 2-year-old son, who lived just eight miles away. 
 Last month, those visits started again. ''So that's wonderful,'' said Mr. Booth, 51. ''But it's not like I can afford to buy a new car or anything.''
 Not everyone is cutting back. Alexander Kudryk paid $2,000 last week for a 1988 Cadillac Brougham with flashy 22-inch rims so he could cruise the streets of Cleveland in style. 
 ''I love it,'' said Mr. Kudryk, 20. ''But if gas prices go back up, I'll have to sell it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alexander Kudryk of Cleveland recently bought his 1988 Cadillac Brougham and now can afford the gas, at a national average of $2.18 a gallon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
Dan Stone drove his pickup less when gas prices rose, and even though a gallon costs less, he has not significantly changed his habits. ''I'm pretty sure the gas prices will go right back up,'' he said.
When the price of gas climbed this summer, Celeste Vazquez, 34, had to start working 10 hours of overtime a week. Last week, she paid $1.93 a gallon to fill her Chrysler PT Cruiser. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B3) CHART: The Return of Cheap Gas: Since July, when gasoline hit an average of $4.11 a gallon nationally, its price has fallen by nearly half, to $2.18. In some states, the average price is now less than $2 a gallon. (Sources: AAA (fuelgaugereport.com)
 Oil Price Information Service)(B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (86%); GAS STATIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OVERTIME (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (67%)

COMPANY: MAVERIK INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (50%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



596 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Red Bulls Have Appeal in a Bearish Economy

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Little Falls, N.J. 

 BODY:
 On a wet suburban morning, gloom was firewalled from the practice field of the New York metropolitan area's professional soccer team in the northwest corner of the Montclair State University campus. One day from a westbound flight for the most important game in the decidedly unremarkable 13-year run of the club we have known as the MetroStars slash Red Bulls, the season seemed as limitless as the sky.
 Opportunity reigned. 
 Granted, few will draw parallels to a certain Giants Stadium co-tenant if the next step is taken Saturday night, if Juan Pablo Angel and the Red Bulls can complete an unlikely journey to the Super Bowl of Major League Soccer, better known as the M.L.S. Cup, by defeating Real Salt Lake in the Western Conference final. But before dismissing soccer in America as primarily kid stuff, the sporting equivalent of the piano recital, consider the timely possibility of a Red Bulls championship while their new stadium is finally under construction in Harrison, N.J., and when affordable entertainment is starting to look like not a half-bad idea.
 ''You don't want to hang your fortunes on the economy's misfortune, but if it's an opportunity for us to pull in a few more people, so be it,'' forward John Wolyniec said. ''Obviously, for us to win now would be great. This franchise has been around for a while now, trying to find its way. It hasn't had that big step yet where it really puts itself on the map.''
 Wolyniec was a math major at Fordham, where he was also the career leader in goals, but his historical take on the fortunes of the Red Bulls has to be as germane as anyone's. First off, he is a New Yorker, out of Staten Island's Monsignor Farrell High School. Second, he has been with this club three times across a 10-year M.L.S. career -- playing in four games in 1999, returning for two seasons-plus in 2003, and again in 2006.
 Tied for the club's career lead in scoring game-winning goals, Wolyniec happened to be scoreless this season, having missed a rash of chances, until finding the back of the net in Houston last weekend. His goal capped a 3-0 takedown of the two-time defending champion Dynamo and maybe, just maybe, epitomized a fate-changing turn for a team that had won six playoff games in the last 12 years and barely slipped in this year, having lost one more game than it won.
 ''I think the best way to describe it was sort of a relief,'' Wolyniec said. ''It was one of those things where we started to believe, to see it coming close and then to go up 3-0 was just a nice way to relax and enjoy the last part of the game.''
 If they win outside Salt Lake City, how much attention would the inclusion of the Red Bulls in the MLS Cup game on Nov. 23 at the Home Depot Center in Carson, Calif., actually draw? Well, consider that in New York/New Jersey's crowded, cacophonous market, the Giants, the Jets and the Rangers are in first place; the Knicks are off to a surprisingly good start; and the Yankees and Mets are about to push empty carts around baseball's free-agent supermarket. 
 That should answer the question, but as Wolyniec said, at least the Red Bulls had a chance to authenticate themselves as more than a pro sports franchise in multiple names only. ''Fans are demanding; they want winners,'' he said. ''In the New York area, championships are respected.''
 Would enough fans devote themselves to a winner in this particular sport? My gut tells me yes, they would. Removed from the dreary vastness of a football bowl, in a comfortable soccer stadium, the Red Bulls would establish their niche, especially if the ground continues to shift under the feet of the sports consumer.
 Back when he was running Madison Square Garden for the Dolan family, Dave Checketts would justify the ever-escalating rise in Knicks and Rangers ticket prices by saying, in effect, what can we do, this is what the market will bear. Now, in a bear market, those asking for a smaller piece of the discretionary income pie -- like the Checketts-operated Real Salt Lake -- may be smartly positioned for stormy years ahead.
 ''If you're a die-hard Yankee fan and that's your sport, I don't expect that person to be coming to the Red Bulls, necessarily,'' said Erik Stover, the Red Bulls' managing director. ''But if you're a sports fan looking for an affordable ticket and quality product in a state-of-the-art facility, that's going to be us.''
 First things first: no one in this economy has the luxury of fail-safe security. The Red Bulls stadium has no firm opening date -- they hope for sometime late next season, but there are unresolved roadway and other infrastructure issues. All they can do is keep building, and winning. If the first thing they raise in the new stadium is a banner, not ticket prices, that would be a heck of a start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



597 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Lower East Side: Art Shoehorned Amid Charm

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Among the art neighborhoods of Manhattan, the Lower East Side is by far the most picturesque. With its dusty synagogues, squeezed-together tenements, anarchist graffiti and shop signs in Yiddish, Spanish and Chinese, it's a visual event whether you're visiting galleries or not. 
 But the essence of a city is change, and this neighborhood is changing. The synagogues and signs are disappearing, along with the anarchist spirit and artist-friendly rents. Chic little bars and boutiques speak of rampant yuppification, although at the moment -- and a sullen economy could prolong this -- old and new are still trading places. 
 Art has its part in that negotiation, and always has. It both reflects and facilitates change. For more than a century the Educational Alliance on East Broadway has democratically provided instruction, studio space and exhibitions to artists. Important careers have emerged from it. Yet the sculpture on view in the alliance gallery now, though varied and energetic, smacks of an earlier generation. Contemporary Chelsea feels far, far away.
 By contrast, Chelsea feels very close to another institution, the New Museum of Contemporary Art, which moved from far West 22nd Street to the Bowery a year ago. The museum exemplifies the developing boho-luxe mode of the Lower East Side. It makes a neighborhood that was once an alternative to establishment culture a welcoming home to that culture. 
 In line with this the museum is described as anchoring a local art scene, and in some sense it does, judging by the other Chelsea transplants clustered around it. Some, like Envoy, Feature, Thierry Goldberg Projects and White Box, have relocated. Others, like Lehmann Maupin, have opened second spaces here, joining galleries like Participant Inc. and Reena Spaulings Fine Art, which remain top attractions. 
 The specific turf these galleries define is bordered on the north by East Houston Street, on the south by Canal Street, on the west by the Bowery and on the east by the river. The art topography has no logic, but galleries are concentrated in several spots: on a short block of Rivington Street between Bowery and Chrystie Street; on Stanton Street between Eldridge and Forsyth Streets; and at the south of Orchard Street.
 As in Chelsea, painting is dominant. And the New Museum sets the tone with two surveys, one devoted to the figurative painter Elizabeth Peyton, the other to the abstract work of Mary Heilmann. Enthusiasts of both will find agreeable things in galleries nearby.
 At Feature, Daniel Hesidence picks up the abstract thread and give it some freshness. With their oval forms and torrential brushwork, his pictures resemble fingerpainted portraits left out in the rain. At Envoy, Augusto Arbizo achieves Rorschach effects with enamel paint dripped onto advertisements torn from Artforum. The original ads are for artists Mr. Arbizo admires, though the line between homage and defacement in his paintings is thin. 
 Stefan Sandner's scrawly text paintings at Museum 52 are also tributes, possibly unintentional. Their deep obeisance to Richard Prince makes them of minor interest. In a broader sense the same is true of abstract paintings by Lisa Hamilton at Jane Kim/Thrust Projects and Logan Grider at Thierry Goldberg. The work, though solid and well schooled, is a throwback, barely updated, to earlier modernist styles. It feels like the equivalent of 20-somethings -- Mr. Grider was born in 1981 -- blissing out on Mel Torme. 
 The painting and photography by the Japanese artist named simply Mr. at Lehmann Maupin is also retro. A Takashi Murakami protege, he has the de rigeur graphic skills, but the manga-pop genre he traffics in has seen its day. I preferred Steve Smith's shadow-box watercolors at Invisible NYC. They're clever, cartoonish, totally slight and don't pretend to be more. And, seen in a gallery that doubles as a tattoo parlor, they fit the Loisaida ambience to a T. 
 Alejandro Cardenas's paintings of insectlike aliens at James Fuentes, a gallery tucked away in a fascinating 19th-century pocket below Canal Street, also have modesty to recommend them. And so do Joe Bradley's quite large paintings at Canada. All you see when you enter Mr. Bradley's show is a scuffed-up blank canvas. And the six paintings in the adjoining room offer just one rudimentary image each: a cross, for instance, a Superman logo, the number 23. But because the artist doesn't call on painterly competence, the work stands out in a gallery scene that has, overall, the ready-for-prime-time surface sheen of an M.F.A. show. 
 Mr. Bradley is best known for multipanel paintings that could be mistaken for relief sculptures. And sculpture has some presence on the Lower East Side. The artists at Anonymous Gallery -- Anthony Lister, Greg Lamarche, Maya Hayuk, Monica Canilao -- recently created environments inside shipping containers that they situated near downtown museums. In the gallery these environments have been removed from the containers and flattened out. Accumulation, with exacting placement, is the name of the game.
 At the minute Number 35, a part-sculpture, part-painting installation by Adam Hayes joins elements from Gothic cathedrals and Las Vegas casinos into a kind of funk-antique architecture. Elsewhere, at Smith-Stewart, Nicole Cherubini goes straight to the Classical past in ceramic sculptures. Hefty kraters are pieced together from many decorative parts in an kind of reverse archaeology. This is art that begins rather than ends with breakage. 
 Far east on Canal Street there's an ambusher of a piece titled ''History'' by a Shanghai sculptor named Xu Han Wei, an alter ego of the wily artist Terence Koh. Set in the dead-white gallery space of Asia Song Society, and viewable only through the window, ''History'' consists of a dark-skinned mannequin wearing animal skins, Jimi Hendrix bell-bottoms, an Afro wig and African beads. Monumental and funny, it was created for the presidential election, though its political vibes are healthily ambiguous.
 Mr. Koh is a conceptual artist who does hands-on things. So is Julieta Aranda, from Mexico, whose solo show at Fruit and Flower Deli is mostly computer printers spewing out paper covered with the typed letter S. The installation has something to do with the notion that if you give enough chimps enough computers and enough time they could write ''Hamlet.'' At least I think that's the gist, though you never know in a gallery that has an oracle in residence (invisible) and a director called the Keeper (real name: Rodrigo). 
 Ideas and objects have equal weight in Sam Lewitt's show at Miguel Abreu, basically a multimedia essay on the arbitrariness of material value and symbols. The symbol under scrutiny is the MGM lion logo, which, as is explained in a demanding gallery news release, embeds references to Columbia University and ancient Rome. Intricate is an inadequate word for Mr. Lewitt's labor-intense, thought-through art. 
 A conceptualist associated with performance art, Clifford Owens is having a first New York solo at the new On Stellar Rays. The diarylike texts and photographs add up to a survey of this intriguing artist's still-young career, with one element still to come: a video of a performance done in the gallery. 
 Video is scarce on the Lower East Side, but what's there is good. Sari Carel has a dreamlike piece at Nicelle Beauchene, filmed at the Bronx Zoo with charismatic performers, among them a giraffe with a Garbo profile. A cool, tender installation by Josh Tonsfeldt at Simon Preston includes spider webs, a barn dance and photographs of horses. And there are beasts galore in the inaugural group showat Kumukumu made up of images of rabbits. Joseph Beuys, Ray Johnson and Kiki Smith make it (sort of) work.
 Enterprising art trekkers will want to seek nongallery installations that are part of the three-borough show ''Metro Poles: Art in Action.'' The Lower East Side components, in the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (268 Canal Street) and the Chinatown Manpower Project (70 Mulberry Street), are organized by the Asian American Arts Center, a veteran nonprofit space now economically imperiled. 
 A point of reference to present economic straits is raised by Melanie Baker's painting ''Abracadabra II (Alan Greenspan)'' at another alternative space, White Box. There it is in the group show ''Sedition,'' one of the few displays of political art in a neighborhood once a hotbed of activism. 
 For a trip back to a less radical past, which is where a lot of present art seems to be heading, drop by Woodward Gallery for a ''where did this come from?'' show of Ad Reinhardt ephemera, notably billets-doux to a young painter, Olga Sheirr, with whom he had a long affair. They met when she was 19 and one of his students. He traveled; she traveled. They got together when they could. When they couldn't, he sent her postcards of art from around the world. An educational alliance indeed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joe Bradley's ''Schmagoo'' paintings are at Canada, on Chrystie Street.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CANADA)
 ''History,'' by the Shanghai sculptor Xu Han Wei, displays a political vibe at Asia Song Society on Canal Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Lower East Side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008



598 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Dancing Santas and Other Traditions of the Season

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

 BODY:
In an economic climate chill enough to frost the ledgers at the Scrooge & Marley counting house, the glow of Christmas spirit has been rekindled. ''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular'' has returned, bringing once more to the center of Manhattan its radiant and heartwarming integration of dancing, singing, costumes, scenery, special effects, seasonal reverence and traditional celebration. 
 Never content to rest on its figurative and literal laurels, this year's splendid show -- with the inexhaustible and incomparable Rockettes drawing cheers from opening taps to final bows -- builds on last year's reimagined and reinvigorated 75th-anniversary model.
 The Rockettes' ''12 Days of Christmas'' routine seems wittier than ever; their journey through Manhattan on a red double-decker Gray Line tour bus seems to have added mileage to its sightseeing, with scenery and towering backgrounds that include not only Central Park and its ice skaters but also the heart of Times Square, where the enormous illuminated signs show the saucy dancers as they perform. And live fireworks top off the spectacle. 
 Old acquaintance has not been forgotten. First performed in 1933, ''The Parade of the Wooden Soldiers,'' with its precision marching, crisp uniforms and hold-your-breath finale -- the slow-motion backward fall of a line of 36 Rockettes -- has returned. So have ''The Nutcracker,'' with its dancing mice and bears of many nations; Charles Edward Hall as the hearty, ubiquitous Santa Claus; the legions of hoofing Kris Kringles; and the abbreviated ''Living Nativity,'' with its placid sheep, camels and donkey and its tale of wise men and their long-ago journey to Bethlehem.
 Not to be overlooked are the 3-D thrills (special glasses included in the program) of Santa's journey from the North Pole to Radio City; the snowflakes; the streamers flying into the audience; the brief filmed history of the Rockettes; the carols and hymns; and the live orchestra appearing magically from below the stage.
 And the entertainment doesn't stop there in this intermissionless 90-minute show conceived, directed and choreographed by Linda Haberman.
 As it was at its outset in the Great Depression, ''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular'' is once more a grand time in hard times.
 ''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular'' continues through Dec. 30 at Radio City Music Hall; (212) 307-1000, radiocity.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rockettes' cascade of wooden soldiers, first performed in 1933, is a feature of ''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); DANCE (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSIC (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); DANCERS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); ICE SKATING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



599 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Season Looking Cheerless

BYLINE: By MARTIN HUTCHINSON and FIONA MAHARG BRAVO

 BODY:
Holiday Season
 Looking Cheerless
 The gloomy outlook unveiled this week by the electronics giant Best Buy and a plunge in September retail sales show that consumers are in full retreat. December could be the first holiday season on record in which retail sales decline. That would threaten many retailers' ability to make full-year profits and further knock investor confidence.
 Retail sales figures are expressed in nominal dollars. That means that when inflation is present, reported sales can rise even if they decline in inflation-adjusted terms. Since the Census Bureau began keeping records in 1953, there has never been a December in which nominal retail sales fell below the previous year. That's because deep recessions have coincided with periods of high inflation. From 1979 to 1981, for example, retail sales rose in all three years in nominal terms, even though they dropped sharply in real or inflation-adjusted terms. 
 This year, though, nominal retail sales are dropping fast enough that year-over-year sales growth may drop below zero in December, despite rising prices. In September, for example, nominal sales were 1 percent below the year-earlier period.
 The sales decline is accelerating. Best Buy, whose competitor Circuit City filed for bankruptcy protection this week, reported nominal comparable-store sales that were down 7.6 percent in October after a 2.4 percent fall in September. Even Wal-Mart Stores, which benefits from belt-tightening by consumers, reported an increase in comparable-store sales of only 2.4 percent in October, a 2.5 percent decline in real terms.
 Only the Thanksgiving effect may keep December's nominal retail sales growth positive. The holiday is late this year, pushing some sales into December from November.
 A decline in retail sales is arguably desirable to improve the savings rate and rebalance the economy. However, since many retailers' profitability for the year depends on holiday season sales, a Christmas with the first nominal retail sales decline in at least 55 years could be a serious short-term blow.
 Big Expectations
 Infrastructure may look to be an asset class that has escaped the market turmoil. Investors poured $21.5 billion into infrastructure funds in the first nine months of the year, more than in 2006, according to Probitas Partners, a California research firm. Probitas estimates that in the next year, $94 billion of funds will be searching for investments. What's more, investors are expecting 12 to 15 percent annual returns, a higher goal than before the credit crisis hit. They could be disappointed.
 The funds need higher returns than ever because the yield on other long-term investments has risen. A 10-year bond recently issued by Altria, the tobacco company, came with a 10 percent yield. But it's hard to collect high enough returns on such projects as lenders become less willing to accept high leverage. The equity portion of investments has doubled to 40 percent since last year. Debt is more expensive, too. 
 What's more, infrastructure assets like airports and highways aren't completely insulated from economic woes. They may have relatively stable cash flows. But traffic at BAA, the British airports group, was 5 percent lower in September than a year earlier. Road traffic has fallen in past recessions, too.
 To make the numbers work, infrastructure investors would have to pay much lower prices for infrastructure assets, perhaps some 30 percent below last year's levels for the funds to achieve a 12 percent return at the lower leverage levels that now apply. 
 The prices of stocks and commodities have fallen more than that. State and local governments or companies might be forced to sell cheap. And while the expected flood of infrastructure buyers should bolster asset prices, some big players like Australia's Macquarie look less active lately. 
 But the example of the Pennsylvania Turnpike isn't encouraging. Many analysts thought the $12.8 billion price was rich. But politicians vetoed the deal. Any suspicion of selling a trophy asset on the cheap is not good politics. 
 There is another way that these funds could hit their targets. Most are assuming they can refinance the debt on better terms in the next two or three years, increasing returns. That might happen. But in the short term, something has to give: the cost of debt, the price of assets, or investor returns. The last looks to be the most likely casualty.
 MARTIN HUTCHINSON and FIONA MAHARG BRAVO 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Televisions on sale on Wednesday at Best Buy, which said this week that a decline in sales was accelerating, to 7.6 percent in October after a 2.4 percent fall in September. (PHOTOGRAPHER BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (97%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); SALES FIGURES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); CHRISTMAS (79%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BONDS (76%); THANKSGIVING (74%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); CENSUS (56%)

COMPANY: BEST BUY CO INC (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

TICKER: BBY (NYSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (54%); MO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (92%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (92%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (92%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008



600 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: German Economic Data Show Recession

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The German economy, the largest in Europe, has entered a recession, according to data published Thursday that showed gross domestic product shrank for a second consecutive quarter. 
 The Federal Statistics Office reported that German G.D.P. contracted 0.5 percent in the third quarter, more than the 0.2 percent decline that had been anticipated. That follows a decline in the second quarter of 0.4 percent, a slight revision from the 0.5 percent decline announced previously. 
 ''Times are going to become harder for the Federal Republic of Germany,'' said the finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, who has repeatedly warned that recovery of the world economy would take at least two years.
 That gloomy prediction was supported by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which forecast on Thursday that all the world's major industrial countries were headed for a major slowdown. 
 The organization, based in Paris, said the United States and Japan as well as the euro zone would undergo economic contractions in 2009 before recovering slightly in 2010. 
 Jorgen Elmeskov, an economist with the organization, said that the outlook depended largely on the depth and duration of the financial crisis. ''The ongoing adjustment in housing markets still has a long way to go,'' he said in a statement.
 A recession is commonly defined as two consecutive quarters of shrinking G.D.P. 
 News that Germany was in its second recession in six years ''shatters earlier hopes that Germany might hold up relatively well against the global downturn,'' Jennifer McKeown, an economist in London with Capital Economics, wrote in a research note.
 Figures expected Friday from Britain, Italy and the Netherlands were likely to show declines as well. 
 In Germany, the grim economic news is adding to the pressure on Chancellor Angela Merkel's coalition government to introduce more ambitious measures to stimulate the economy, to spur growth and consumer spending and to prevent a surge in unemployment.
 ''It is now clear that the original package of measures, which were designed to generate about 50 billion euros in investment and contracts, is inadequate,'' said Timo Klein, a senior economist at Global Insight in Frankfurt. ''The government must react, and soon, to these latest figures by the statistics office.''
 The contraction was caused by the negative impact the global financial crisis was having on German exports, which had been the engine of the country's growth.
 Although precise figures will not be made available until later this month, the statistics office said the decline of the euro against the dollar was not enough to offset the sharp fall in consumer spending and downturns in the United States and other major markets that import German goods.
 At the same time, there was a surge in imports, and ''the balance of exports and imports had a negative impact on the development of the gross domestic product,'' the statistics office said.
 Companies, notably manufacturers, were also reducing their investments in response to falling demand. ''In the manufacturing sector alone, investment has declined between 7 percent and 8 percent,'' Mr. Klein said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A high-speed train being assembled at a Siemens plant in Germany. The country's export-led economy is faltering, giving rise to calls for more government spending to stimulate growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WOLFGANG VON BRAUCHITSCH/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); EURO (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: PEER STEINBRUECK (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

 
