

201 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: Tired of Mowing the Grass? Just Replace It With a Pool

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
MARGARET MILLER of Houston turned 50 last year and to celebrate, she said, she had a ''mud pit'' dug in her backyard. ''I'd always wanted a pool, and I thought, you know, I'm old enough, I can have a pool,'' said Mrs. Miller, a Webmaster for the human resources department at Exxon Mobil. 
 The mud pit was the first phase in the construction of her rectangular lap pool, which has three fountains arching across it. The 8-by-20-foot pool replaced a barren spot in the yard where Mrs. Miller said she had spent years fruitlessly trying to coax Bermuda grass to grow. Now she swims laps evenings and weekends but says she most enjoys ''floating face up, looking at the sky and trees.'' 
 She is not alone. More homeowners are building pools of various sizes for exercise and relaxation as well as to enhance their homes' aesthetics and overall value. 
 The National Spa and Pool Institute, a trade organization in Alexandria, Va., reports a 5 percent to 6 percent year-over-year increase in pool construction since 1998. And pool builders and consultants say lap pools are particularly popular because they can be wedged into smaller spaces than the traditional kidney-shaped pool with the diving board at the end. 
 Though many people would not be satisfied with a pool shorter than 40 feet, laps of a sort are possible in 20-foot pools, and those a mere 10 feet long can be outfitted with special jets or harnesses for swimming in place. 
 Tight urban environments and crowded suburbs offer little room for anything much bigger than a lap pool, said John Romano, president of All American Custom Pools and Spas of Norwalk, Conn. Homes are often built so close to the edge of the lot that ''you can literally spit in your neighbor's window,'' he said, adding that his crew recently had to dig a 15-by-30-foot lap pool for a customer in Brooklyn by hand because there was no room between the house and the property line to accommodate even the smallest backhoe. 
 That was a costly project. With all the manual labor and extras like fiber-optic lighting and a computerized filtration system, the Brooklyn pool cost $330,000. But pools can be built in the range of $20,000 to $50,000, Mr. Romano said. It is a price homeowners seem willing to pay, thanks to low interest rates on home improvement loans, said Brian Reid, publisher of Swimmingpools101.com, an informational Web site. 
 Judging from the site's message board and visitor feedback, he said, ''We've noticed a real trend in luxury upgrades of homes,'' with pools built as much for enjoyment as to increase property value. 
 Purely as an investment, installing a pool is not as good as, say, renovating a kitchen. A home's resale value generally increases by only 35 percent to 50 percent of a pool's cost, according to the American Society of Appraisers, a trade group in Herndon, Va., while a homeowner should recoup 65 percent to 85 percent of the cost of a new kitchen. 
 Part of the cost of building a pool may be tax-deductible if a doctor recommends swimming or any other form of water exercise as therapy for a medical condition like arthritis. So perhaps the chief motivation for building a lap pool is for its fitness benefits. ''Lap pools are really big now that the baby boomers are getting older and looking for ways to exercise without stressing their joints,'' said Tom Griffiths, an aquatic safety consultant and author of ''The Swimming Pool,'' a consumer guide to designing and building a pool.
 And the pool need not be outdoors. Ben D. Hill, a real estate developer in Grand Junction, Colo., had a swim-in-place lap pool installed in his home last year. The 7-by-15-foot pool, in a sunroom next to his bedroom, has powerful jets that keep Mr. Hill stationary while he strokes against the continuous current.
 ''I'm a runner, but I was beginning to get those aches and pains that come with age,'' said Mr. Hill, 52. Since installing his pool, he said, he swims four days a week, and ''my knees are in much better shape.''
 Mr. Hill's pool is made of molded fiberglass, which was delivered like a big tub on the back of a flatbed truck for his contractor to slip into the floor. Fiberglass is also used for outdoor above- and below-ground pools, but homeowners are limited to the preformed shapes and sizes available. 
 CONCRETE and vinyl-lined pools, which are generally in-ground, can be made to fit any area and design. Concrete pools are supported by a skeleton of rebar and are usually surfaced with plaster. A vinyl-lined pool has a vinyl surface covering a sand base and walls made out of steel, fiberglass, aluminum or pressure-treated wood. 
 Above-ground fiberglass pools are obviously less expensive, because there is no excavation involved. But since the cost of an in-ground pool has more to do with the digging and engineering required than the materials used, Brian Van Bower, a pool designer and owner of Aquatic Consultants Inc. in Miami, said that ''people should just choose the vessel material that has the look they want and the feel they prefer under their feet.'' 
 What drives up the price of a pool, Mr. Van Bower and other pool experts said, are the choices among types of filters, heaters, lighting, pumps and border tiles, not to mention the cost of the surrounding deck, patio and landscaping. On the high end would be a pool like Dale Doorly's, which he had built in 2002 in his backyard in San Diego. A financial consultant with Smith Barney, Mr. Doorly said he wanted not only a pool for exercise but a ''thing of beauty.'' So his 23-by-40-foot pool has an artful ''infinity'' edge, with the water on one side spilling into an invisible trough to create the illusion that there is no retaining wall. 
 There is also a ''sheer descent'' waterfall -- meaning it falls in a smooth sheet -- and sprinklers that telescope up from the bottom. A fiber-optic lighting system makes the pool seem to glow at night, and a solar-powered heating system keeps it comfortable year-round. Moreover, the pool is virtually maintenance-free, thanks to a top-of-the-line ozone filtration system and automatic chlorinator. 
 Mr. Doorly said the total cost, which he would not disclose, was three times as much as ''your basic pump-and-filter pool.'' But he added that the upfront cost would save him money over time. The pool's heating, lighting and sanitary systems are so efficient that he spends next to nothing on chemicals, electricity and general upkeep. ''Pools are a pay-me-now, pay-me-later kind of thing,'' he said. Maintenance costs vary widely, but chemicals and cleaning supplies alone can run $300 to $500 a year. 
 Because there are so many options, it is important to find a pool builder who is knowledgeable as well as independent.
 ''YOU probably don't want someone who is affiliated with any one supplier or who has any exclusive distribution deals, because you're not going to find out about all your options,'' said Mr. Reid at Swimmingpools101.com. Before signing on with anyone, pool owners and designers advise inspecting at least three pools the company has built. They also suggest requesting the names of recent customers as well as those from several years ago to see how pools have held up over time. 
 And, make sure that the warranty covers not only the pool but also all the ancillary systems like filtration, plumbing, heating and lighting. 
 Also, Mrs. Miller in Houston said, be prepared for a ''huge mess'' during construction. Wincing at the memory of her smashed sidewalk, trampled shrubs and the mud pit that almost swallowed the backhoe, she said, ''It looked like a bomb went off while they were building it, but the payoff was this totally great pool. I love my pool.''

QUICK READ
If you're thinking of installing a pool -- whether for cooling off or for stress-free exercise -- consider these points:

COST
A basic pool costs $20,000 to $50,000. Extras like underwater speakers, waterfalls, computerized filters, solar heating and fiber-optic lighting can increase the price tenfold. Pools are tax-deductible if they help a medical condition.

BENEFITS
Lap pools can fit in a small space. With endless-current jets, pools can be as small as 7 by 10 feet. They can increase a home's value by 35 to 50 percent of their cost, and swimming is excellent exercise.

DRAWBACKS
If not equipped with automatic filtering and chlorination systems, pools require weekly cleaning and chemical treatments. Filters must be changed every four to six months. Pools can raise property taxes and insurance rates.

TYPES
Concrete, vinyl-lined and fiberglass are the most common choices. There is often little difference in cost if the pool is installed below ground, so pool material is more a matter of personal preference.

BUILDERS
Find a contractor who is not affiliated with a particular manufacturer. Ask to see pools the contractor has built and talk with the homeowners. And make sure warranties cover not just the pool but also any lighting or heating systems.

SAFETY
The Consumer Product Safety Commission's Web site (www.cpsc.gov) explains measures you can take to prevent injuries and reduce potential liability.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dale Doorly, left, swimming with his son Michael, wanted more than a means of exercise. He also wanted to add beauty to his San Diego home. The solution was a pool. (Photo by Alan Decker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (88%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%) Swimming Pools

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SPA & POOL INSTITUTE (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

PERSON: Kate Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



202 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Yesterday's Earnings Don't Move Stocks. Tomorrow's Do.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
ON July 27, the Jones Apparel Group announced earnings for the second quarter that were better than expected. Revenue also came in ahead of forecasts. 
 You might have thought that the company's shares would rise on this news, but you would have been wrong.
 In fact, Jones's stock dropped 2.1 percent that day and was down 5.3 percent Friday from its pre-earnings announcement price. 
 Why did the stock drop? A major reason is that along with its report on past earnings, the company gave guidance to investors on its earnings outlook for the third quarter. It was much gloomier than anticipated, as much as 17 cents a share below Wall Street expectations.
 The decline of the company's stock, despite strong second-quarter earnings, shows the importance that the market places on company guidance -- Wall Street jargon for corporate predictions about future earnings. 
 Missing current earnings forecasts is often a problem for a company's stock, as is a shortfall on current revenue. Much of the talk and analysis during each quarterly earnings reporting season is focused on how many companies have missed, met or beaten expectations for that quarter and by how much.
 But company guidance, while much less concrete than earnings, is a very influential factor that is being looked at more closely now as analysts seek to figure out why strong earnings -- they are expected to rise 25 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for the second quarter -- are not pushing stocks higher.
 A look at the performance of companies that have reported their earnings and given guidance shows that trimming the future earnings outlook -- or just giving guidance below Wall Street forecasts for the quarters ahead -- can offset what was otherwise a strong earnings announcement. Of course, other factors, like $44 crude oil, and worries about an economic slowdown, have dragged the market down recently, including last week. 
 For investors, though, the market response to company guidance could provide some short-term opportunities for those who like to trade. 
 Of the 33 companies from the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq 100 whose guidance was lower than market expectations when announcing second-quarter profits, shares of 27, or 82 percent, declined on the first trading opportunity after the news, based on an analysis of data collected by Birinyi Associates, a research and money management firm in Westport, Conn. The stock of 23 was still down through Wednesday. 
 The Jones Apparel Group, whose brands include Jones New York, Gloria Vanderbilt and Nine West, was among them. Avon Products and Visteon, the auto-parts manufacturer, also beat earnings and revenue expectations but gave guidance that was below Wall Street consensus forecasts. Avon fell 1.7 percent the day of the announcement, while Visteon dropped 3 percent. Through Friday, Avon was down 2.6 percent and Visteon 13.1 percent.
 The performance of companies that raised their guidance -- saying, in effect, that Wall Street was underestimating their earnings for coming quarters -- shows a similar, but reverse, relationship. Of the 45 companies that issued such guidance, shares of 31, or 69 percent, rose on the first trading day after the news release; 33, or 73 percent, were up through Wednesday. Among these were Apple Computer and Eastman Kodak, which jumped 11.3 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively, in the first day of trading after the news. As of Friday, Apple was still up 0.7 percent, while Kodak was up 8.1 percent.
 For investors, company guidance could inform short-term buying or selling decisions. For example, companies that lowball their guidance to help them exceed future earnings expectations may add to investor anxiety but also often make their stock briefly cheaper.
 Ford and Microsoft are in this category, according to some analysts. Ford beat second-quarter forecasts for earnings and revenue and also raised its guidance for 2004. But even that increase, to a range of $1.80 to $1.90 a share, left the company 4 cents to 14 cents below Wall Street forecasts. Ford's stock dropped 2.5 percent on the day of the announcement and was, by Friday, 6.1 percent below the pre-earnings announcement level.
 MICROSOFT earnings for the second quarter were in line with expectations, while revenue was higher. But the company's very conservative forecast for growth in the next 12 months helped send the stock down 3.3 percent on the first day after the announcement. On Friday, Microsoft was 6.4 percent below the pre-earnings announcement level. There is a good chance that the market is underestimating Microsoft's earnings potential, though. Microsoft was also guiding the market down when it reported second-quarter earnings in 1999. The stock responded by dropping 16.9 percent to $40.88 in the four weeks after the July announcement. It finished the year at $58.38. 
 The data also shows that leaving a company's guidance unchanged can hurt a stock's performance, just as it often is not good enough for a company only to match its earnings expectations. Of the 309 companies through Wednesday that didn't change their guidance, 49 percent fell on the trading day after the announcement.
 But be warned. Of the 33 companies that beat earnings and revenue expectations and raised their guidance, five still fell significantly. These were Broadcom, Electronic Arts, Novellus Systems, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide. Guidance can be misleading.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Influence of Expectations''Even when companies met Wall Street expectations for earnings and revenue in the second quarter, their shares often fell if they said that future performance would not meet Wall Street expectations. Here's what happened to 33 companies that lowered their guidance.Avg. decline in stock price from day before lowered guidance, through Wednesday: -2%Did the companies meet expectations for the 2nd qtr.?Earnings per share: BEATRevenue: BEATNo. of companies: 15Avg. decline in stock price from day before lowered guidance, through Wednesday: -5%Did the companies meet expectations for the 2nd qtr.?Earnings per share: METRevenue: BEATNo. of companies: 5Avg. decline in stock price from day before lowered guidance, through Wednesday: -3%Did the companies meet expectations for the 2nd qtr.?Earnings per share: MISSEDRevenue: BEATNo. of companies: 1Avg. decline in stock price from day before lowered guidance, through Wednesday: -3%Did the companies meet expectations for the 2nd qtr.?Earnings per share: BEATRevenue: MISSEDNo. of companies: 3Avg. decline in stock price from day before lowered guidance, through Wednesday: -6%Did the companies meet expectations for the 2nd qtr.?Earnings per share: METRevenue: MISSEDNo. of companies: 3Avg. decline in stock price from day before lowered guidance, through Wednesday: -4%Did the companies meet expectations for the 2nd qtr.?Earnings per share: MISSEDRevenue: METNo. of companies: 1Avg. decline in stock price from day before lowered guidance, through Wednesday: -4%Did the companies meet expectations for the 2nd qtr.?Earnings per share: MISSEDRevenue: MISSEDNo. of companies: 5(Source by Birinyi Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (96%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Corporations; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: VISTEON CORP (80%); JONES GROUP INC (58%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (50%)

TICKER: VC (NYSE) (80%); JNY (NYSE) (58%); AVP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



203 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8A; Column 1; Sports Desk; ATHENS: SUMMER 2004 OLYMPICS -- JASON L. READ/U.S.A. ROWING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Motivation From 9/11 Pulls the Oars

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

 BODY:
For weeks, the raw images inside Jason Read's mind had disappeared.
 The five days he had spent at ground zero after the towers fell -- wiggling into smoldering holes to search for survivors, picking through rubble, watching last rites given to firefighters younger than himself -- all gone.
 ''My brain was probably doing it to protect me,'' he said. ''That was good because no one is strong enough to process everything that happened down there. You needed time to heal first.'' 
 For Read, a rower on the United States national team and volunteer chief of the Amwell Valley Rescue Squad in Ringoes, N.J., the healing came in quiet places. In his room, with the lights low. At a church, head bowed. On the water, pulling on his oar.
 And now, though the painful memories of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center will never be gone, Read has transformed them into a positive force: motivation. 
 The 26-year-old will row in the sport's glamour event, the men's eight, at this summer's Olympics. Although he has been on the senior national team three times before, he said this time would be different. He wants to help the United States eight win its first Olympic gold medal in 40 years -- not for himself, but for America, for the people who lost their lives or loved ones on Sept. 11, 2001.
 ''All of my emotions from that time have been building up inside of me for so long,'' Read said, holding back tears. ''They are fuel for me, and I'm going to harness them and win.
 ''I envision it every day,'' he added. ''I'll be standing there under the American flag, singing the national anthem. Well, I'll sing, I guess, if I can. I'll be so broken up. I'll be lucky to talk at that point.''
 Read, whom his teammates and coaches call ''J.R.'' or ''Chief Read,'' is 6 feet -1 inch and 180 pounds, with brown unruly hair and tanned skin. But what stands out most is his quirky personality, a combination of sensitive and cocky, serious and goofy. 
 One instant, Read is the man who, at 21, became the youngest volunteer fire chief in New Jersey. He is soulful, mulling over thoughts before verbalizing them in what may be poetry. 
 The next, he is giddy, showing off photos of his most recent crush, a Princeton woman he met while training at the university's boathouse. During rowing practices, to cut the tension, he always finds something upbeat to say. ''I know how to inject needed levity into any situation,'' Read said, all scholarly. 
 When he was 12, his two brothers, both older, simply thought he was obnoxious. Blame it on a friend's police and fire scanner, which he listened to daily.
 Soon, Read had a scanner of his own and listened to it with such passion that his brothers schemed to destroy it. ''He drove them crazy with all those little beeping sounds,'' said Read's mother, Joan. ''It was like when he was 4, he was obsessed with naming all the state capitals, all day long. He puts his mind to something and stays there.''
 Read was 14 when he joined the Hopewell Fire Department in New Jersey as a junior volunteer. At 16, he became an emergency medical technician. At 17, during summers, he signed onto the Atlantic City Beach Patrol.
 When he was 13, just before his career in rescue began, Read joined his school's crew team, first as a coxswain, the small guy who sits in the stern of the boat, steering and shouting commands. As a freshman at The Hun School of Princeton, he switched to rowing, just a scrawny kid, at 5-1, 115 pounds, with big hopes. That season at the Princeton University boathouse, where his school trained, he met Mike Teti, then a national team rower, now the Olympic team coach. 
 Read walked up to Teti, smiling wide, silver braces gleaming, and said, ''I'm going to row with you in the Olympics one day.'' Teti remembers looking at the boy slim and light as a Popsicle stick and saying, ''Sure, kid, sure.''
 Eventually, Read grew another 12 inches, but was still small for heavyweight rowing, in which there is no maximum size. He has size 14 feet, but is the shortest and lightest man in the United States' men's eight. The other rowers are at least 6-3 and 200 pounds. The biggest one is 6-7, 215.
 Teti said Read's confidence makes up for his size. ''I don't even think J.R. has to train,'' he said. ''His will is just that powerful. Usually, rowing is 30 percent physical, 30 percent technical and 30 percent psychological, but with Jason, it's 10 percent physical, 5 percent technical, and 85 percent that he really just believes that he is the man.''
 At home in New Jersey, Read is the man, in a different way. He lives with his mother in a perfectly appointed house, on a farm of rolling hills where his family used to stable horses and hounds for fox hunting. Between rowing practices at Princeton, 20 minutes away, he is still chief of his rescue squad, active in administrative and hands-on duties.
 When not trying to raise $100,000 for a new squad station, he tends to car accidents, fires and construction-site mishaps, like a recent one in which a worker broke his leg and several ribs, and could not breathe.
 ''If my teammates and coach knew I was going into a burning building or doing these dangerous things, they'd kill me,'' he said. ''So I just tell them I took a nap.''
 And napping is what Read was doing the morning of Sept. 11, before he woke up to the sound of his mother crying. 
 He was at home, just back from the World Rowing Championships in Lucerne, Switzerland, depressed because the team had finished fourth. Returning to regular life, he was commuting to Temple University in Philadelphia, where he was a senior economics major on a rowing scholarship.
 But on Sept. 11, he was neither student nor athlete; he was a rescue worker. He grabbed his lifesaving gear and was off. That night at Liberty State Park, at 23 years old, he was the volunteer communications officer, in charge of mobilizing about 500 doctors, nurses, E.M.T.'s and other emergency workers.
 In the silence of an eerie evening, even after no survivors came ashore from Manhattan, he kept going. He took a ferry to ground zero to help set up one of the site's major treatment areas. 
 Walking through the World Financial Center, he learned what he would be dealing with. ''It's where I found a leg,'' he said. 
 ''For most people, 9/11 was different because they had to digest hundreds, maybe thousands of images from that day,'' he said. ''But for the people who were there, we have to somehow reflect and face a profound experience. Our minds were inundated with hundreds of thousands of images. Do you know what kind of introspection that causes? I thought, 'Why am I still rowing? I should be enlisting.'''
 The images are burned into Read's head now: an American flag waving above the wreckage that was the World Trade Center, many American flags draped over the bodies of the dead firefighters pulled from the twisted, smoldering metal. He had nightmares for months after that search-and-rescue mission.
 That fall, he took the semester off from Temple, worrying his mother because he did not talk much anymore.
 ''He backed away from a lot of family and friends,'' Joan Read said. ''And he threw himself into rowing.''
 With Read in the boat, pulling hard and always keeping what he calls the ''morale-o-meter'' up with his encouraging words, the United States eight won a bronze medal at the worlds that year. Last year, it was silver. This June, Read was in the United States four that shocked the favored Canadians and British by winning a World Cup race in Lucerne. This year, Teti said, is Read's best season yet.
 Read said a newfound spirituality has played a part in that. He was baptized Lutheran, rarely going to church before Sept. 11. But on Easter 2002, he reaffirmed his faith in God and was confirmed in the Catholic Church, moved by the support he was given after Sept. 11 by Catholic friends and the Rev. Thomas Mullelly, the chaplain for the national rowing team and for Princeton. 
 On his confirmation day, Read received a small card from his sponsor, Hank Teti, Mike Teti's father. On it is his name, the word ''Healer'' and a Bible verse.
 Read choked up when he read the card, gently touching the edges as he whispered: ''I've been given strength by someone -- that's a capital Someone -- to help people who are in the most compromising positions. I don't know why. I don't know why I've been blessed that way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jason Read of the men's rowing team in one of his other roles, chief of operations at the Amwell Valley Rescue Squad in Ringoes, N.J.
Read practicing with his teammate Wyatt Allen, left, on Lake Carnegie near Princeton.
His day can include work as a 911 dispatcher at Capital Health System in Trenton, followed, below, by a row in the early evening on the lake near the university's boathouse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/The New York Times)
 Read at the Bank of New York operations center opposite 7 World Trade Center. (Photo by Bernard Weil/The Toronto Star) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (87%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (77%); ROWING (75%); ATHLETES (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Rowing; Biographical Information

PERSON: Juliet Macur; Jason Read

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



204 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; The World; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Africans Find a Refuge In Cast-Off 'Big Boxes'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
FROM her place behind the barred window of the Nonto Tuck Shop in Soweto, Constance Jwara sells lollipops and soda, salt and sugar and plates of meat and pap, an African staple made of boiled cornmeal. To her left is a dry cleaner's. To her right, an older woman sells fruit, vegetables and a sampling of native condiments. 
 As suburban strip malls go, it's not unlike that found in many American towns. With one exception: it consists entirely of shipping containers. 
 Western retail architecture is defined by golden arches and big-box merchandisers. In much of poorer Africa -- in much of the developing world -- ''big box'' means a rusting container of corrugated steel, usually 20 feet long, culled from giant cargo ships for use as a restaurant, a beauty salon, or, as the accompanying photographs suggest, you name it. 
 Condemning this container sprawl as the ultimate expression of the West's disposable society would be easy. The container is a spectacularly successful American invention, and the homely ones that litter the African landscape are mostly the leavings of big Western shippers. 
 But it isn't that simple. Many Africans who have converted the containers -- into schools, community centers and even homes -- might disagree. They are the grown-up equivalents of the empty refrigerator box that children play in. Ugly or not, containers can become anything one wants -- and cheaply. 
 Which is why, in a region where all too many people live under trash-bag roofs, they are ubiquitous. 
 Shipping containers did not exist until 1956, when a North Carolina trucking tycoon named Malcolm McLean loaded 58 of them onto a converted oil tanker in a bid to automate the loading and unloading of cargo, which was then done mostly by hand. Today 90 percent of the world's cargo moves in containers-- and the equivalent of 1.4 million 20-foot containers move in and out of South Africa alone each year. 
 Thomas Greh, a German filmmaker who has made a documentary about the container industry, says the ebb and flow of world trade is partly responsible for the container gluts in developing regions. 
 In essence, he says, the First World ships millions of containers of finished goods to Africa, but Africa has far fewer full containers to ship back. 
 ''Sometimes, the costs are just too high to bring an empty container back to the next harbor,'' he said in a telephone interview, ''and the shipping company sells the container instead.''
 That may happen, other experts say, particularly when the containers are far inland and must be trucked to a port. But it is more common for firms to simply sell the containers when their seaworthy lives end, usually after 5 to 10 years. 
 According to Safmarine, a Cape Town shipping firm, a container that cost $2,000 new will fetch as much as $700 as surplus. Some companies donate old containers to schools and charities; Safmarine, for example, has given away 7,000 since 1991. 
 The container housing Nonto Tuck Shop (a tuck shop is akin to a convenience store) was in fact given to Soweto's Nanto primary school in the mid-1990's by local Coca-Cola officials. The school leases it to an operator for 450 rand a month, about $70, and uses the proceeds to support school activities. 
 The operator, in turn, pays Ms. Jwara 450 rand a month. She uses that money to support her family -- three children, the child of a sick brother and an unemployed husband. 
 Ms. Jwara was unemployed before landing the job in May. She has a fourth-grade education. ''I like this job,'' she says, ''because it's the only one that I can do.''
 In parts of Africa right now, that is reason enough. Sometimes, it seems, even a homely steel rectangle can twist itself into a benevolent circle.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CONTAINER LIVING -- Deborah Dube, top left, and her husband run the Shammah project, which cares for South African orphans, who are housed in discarded shipping containers in Cape Town. She is holding Marcus, who was abandoned at age 2. Godfrey Putas, top right, has a small room in one of the eight containers. In Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, containers were stacked to make an office building for the city's parking authority, above. In Johannesburg's Soweto township, Gugo Khumalo, left, closes up a convenience store run by a school. (Photographs by JEFFREY BARBEE for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE SHIPPING (89%); RETAILERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SUBURBS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); CONTAINERIZATION (70%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (95%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



205 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Indochina War Refugees Find Homes at Last, in U.S.

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: SARABURI, Thailand 

 BODY:
It is a scene from what seems the distant past: 15,000 refugees from the American war in Indochina clustered in a guarded camp, preparing at last to head for asylum in the United States.
 Monsoon rains make rivers of their muddy paths and blanket their tin-roofed huts with white noise as they sit in little classrooms for crash courses on becoming Americans.
 The first small groups began departing in June, but the camp will not be empty for months. 
 Like more than three million refugees who came before them, the people here -- or their parents -- fled their country after the war ended in 1975. But unlike almost all the rest, they have remained in stateless limbo, long after refugee programs closed around Asia. 
 They are Hmong tribespeople from the mountains of Laos, an ethnic group that was recruited wholesale by the Central Intelligence Agency to fight in its ''secret war'' in that tiny country neighboring Vietnam. When the Communist Pathet Lao overthrew the United States-backed government in 1975, a large part of the Hmong population fled, fearing reprisals. 
 Some people are calling the current resettlement the end of one of the great refugee movements in history, the last significant migration from the era that included Vietnamese boat people and starving Cambodian refugees.
 ''It's reasonable to assume that this is the last big group,'' said W. Courtland Robinson, author of a book about Indochina refugees called ''Terms of Refuge.'' Veterans of the war and other supporters of the Hmong say the United States owes a debt to these people it left behind when the war ended. Since then, 127,000 have been resettled in the United States, where their population has swelled.
 The people here refused to go with them, hoping some day to cross the Mekong River back to Laos. When the camps that held them closed in the early 1990's, they found a home in the fields around a Buddhist temple here called Wat Tham Krabok, about 50 miles north of Bangkok. 
 Then, late last year, the United States agreed to a longstanding request by the Thai government to take them all, filling an annual refugee quota after arrivals dropped sharply following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Most of the people at the temple are ready to go. This is not the same population that refused asylum a decade ago. Three out of four people here were born in Thailand.
 These are refugees not from a war but from a refugee camp.
 ''We ask them, 'Where are you from?' '' said KaYing Yang, 36, a Hmong-American social worker who runs a cultural orientation program here. ''They have no idea where they are from in Laos. They've never been to Laos.'' 
 Refugee support groups in the United States say tens of thousands more Hmong who could have a claim on asylum are scattered around Thailand. But nobody is being added to the current list, and the United States is unlikely to take many more. Thailand says it will close the camp, and the future remains uncertain for a small number of mostly older people here who say they will not go. A number of others who do wish to go were missed by a census last year that has become the official, inflexible departure list.
 Refugee flows never have a clean end, Mr. Robinson said. It is not a surprise to find little pools left behind like Wat Tham Krabok. There are always more claimants for asylum and more families reaching back to take their relatives.
 ''So nobody should be scratching their heads and saying, 'How can this be, 30 years after the conflict?'''
 The first waves of Hmong were among the least prepared refugees ever accepted by the United States, mostly illiterate soldiers and farmers who had had little contact with modern life.
 They have clustered mostly in Minnesota, Wisconsin and California, and these established communities will help cushion the arrival of the newcomers. Local governments and aid groups have mobilized to help.
 By now, the refugees here are familiar with televisions, cellphones and video cameras, which have replaced the stitched story cloths on which the Hmong had traditionally recorded their lives.
 But in the cultural orientation classes they attend, they are still fascinated by a modern kitchen, and they are awed by flush toilets.
 ''They are all afraid of the toilet,'' Ms. Yang said. ''The old people, 'Wow!' they push the lever, 'Where did the water come from?'''
 Ms. Yang is one of five Hmong-Americans who came here to help prepare the refugees for a new life. Their presence shows the different lives of those who accepted resettlement and those who stayed behind.
 ''We give them a small review of the United States,'' Ms. Yang said, ''about Native Americans, Christopher Columbus, the colors of the flag, the seasons, the snow -- 'Do you know what snow looks like?' ''
 The students are drilled in American values, and if they forget any they can check key words, tacked to the wall on slips of colored paper: independence, self-reliance, equality, privacy, punctuality, time, individualism, rights, flag, stars, stripes.
 The Hmong are told that in the United States polygamy is forbidden and that beating one's children is considered a crime. They are told that they need hunting licenses if they are going to track animals in the woods. The first wave of Hmong refugees in the United States was known for its insularity and dependence on welfare, clustering in tight-knit groups. They continue to develop slowly, economically and socially. Ms. Yang spans the generations. A refugee who was born in Laos, she passed through a camp in Thailand, moved with her parents to the United States and earned a college degree.
 ''Maybe it's just me and my group of friends, but I see a lot of success,'' she said. Her Hmong background, though, has left her feeling lost, she said. This is a culture that was torn apart during the war, when most men became soldiers, huge numbers died and much of the population was displaced.
 When the war ended, hundreds of thousands of Hmong and lowland Lao people fled into Thailand, where they were sheltered in vast camps close to the border.
 ''We are a stateless people,'' Ms. Yang said. ''What is our identity? What does that mean? Many here are traumatized. The whole community is having an identity crisis. They don't know who they are.''
 She asks herself the same questions.
 ''My whole life, I've wanted to work in a refugee camp,'' she said. ''How did I get here? Who am I?''
 For lack of anything else, Wat Tham Krabok is the only home the people here have. Their lives are familiar and manageable and their friends are close at hand, all of them speaking Hmong.
 Though most people are eager to become Americans, some of the older refugees say they fear the strangeness and isolation they will find in a foreign land where people are independent, self-reliant and punctual.
 Deep inside the camp is a narrow path where tinkers and blacksmiths work in the snug shelter of roofs and lean-tos above their heads.
 The path is filled with the sounds of hammers and saws and the smell of sweet smoke from small forges.
 The men sit together filing, grinding and hammering, talking quietly with one another. It is a picture of contentment and fellowship that they may never experience again.


GRAPHIC: Photos: KaYing Yang, a Hmong-American, taught Hmong refugees headed to the United States about its culture.
 A Hmong man and child rode along the barbed-wire perimeter of a refugee camp in Saraburi, Thailand. (Photographs by Thierry Falise/Asiaworksphotos.com, for The New York Times)Map of Thailand highlighting Saraburi: Hmong have lived in limbo in Saraburi since fleeing Laos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (94%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); VETERANS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); WRITERS (64%); RELIGION (61%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (61%); ETHNICITY (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (75%) UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (94%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (94%); VIET NAM (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



206 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: The S.E.C.'s Infrequent Filer Plan

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TARO PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES is an Israeli company with sales of $316 million and a formerly highflying stock that trades on the Nasdaq. The company is also Exhibit A for why securities regulators absolutely must increase the financial filing requirements of foreign corporations if they want to protect investors from the kind of bloodbath that Taro shareholders recently endured.
 For a foreign company, Taro is mighty domestic. Ninety percent of its sales are generated in the United States while 5 percent come from Canada. More than a quarter of the company's employees work in the United States. 
 But because it is incorporated in Israel, it is a so-called foreign filer under Securities and Exchange Commission rules. That means it is required to file pretty much one thing: an annual financial report, known as a 20F. Quarterly filings are optional, leaving investors mostly in the dark during the course of the year.
 And while the S.E.C. has been requiring domestic companies to speed up the filing of their annual reports -- now they must come in 75 days after the year concludes versus 90 days under previous rules -- foreign filers still have altogether too much time to file. Taro filed its annual report for the year that ended in December 2003 on June 29, 2004. 
 As it happened, that filing, reporting rosy rates of growth, came smack in the middle of a severe downturn in Taro's business. Investors reading the annual report got a different impression: it said 2003 sales increased 49 percent while profits rose 37 percent. 
 Two months before filing its annual report, the company issued a press release announcing that first-quarter net income had fallen 21 percent. And on July 29, it said in another press release that its second-quarter sales had dropped 35 percent from the same period in 2003 and that its profits were less than half the levels seen a year earlier. 
 Taro also said that its largest customers were cutting purchases of its products significantly. But neither of these press releases, nor press releases for earlier quarters, included cash flow statements for the company or financial footnotes, both of which are typically found in quarterly S.E.C. filings by domestic companies. 
 Such detailed information could have helped investors see a pothole ahead. They were, after all, accustomed to the company's hot-rod stock: shares that had traded for less than $10 during most of 2000 had hit a high of around $72 last December, giving the company a market value of $2.14 billion. 
 Before the April disappointment, Taro's stock was at $62. It fell 27 percent the following day. On the second-quarter news, the shares dropped 20 percent more. Since April, $1.2 billion in market value has evaporated. The shares changed hands at $21.18 at the end of the day Friday, down 67 percent this year. 
 Analysts at Glass, Lewis & Company, an independent research and institutional advisory firm in San Francisco, were less surprised by the Taro debacle than most investors. On April 5, the firm had issued an alert to its clients, pointing out, among other things, weakness in operating cash flows at the company and a slow rate of turnover in inventories. It advised its clients to be wary of Taro stock, noting that it traded at a premium to comparable companies that had much stronger cash flows. The shares were at $59.43 when the report was published.
 Because Taro's quarterly press releases do not include cash flow details, the professionals at Glass, Lewis had a tough time piecing together a picture of the company. For the average investor, such a task would have been nigh impossible. 
 However, piece Glass, Lewis did, with data gleaned from Taro's press releases. The result was a company that appeared to be in a financial crisis, said Greg Taxin, the chief executive of Glass, Lewis. 
 ''There is no economic or political justification for allowing foreign companies to access efficient U.S. capital markets with only scant and occasional disclosure about their businesses,'' said Mr. Taxin. ''We rely on orderly and comprehensive disclosure to keep our markets efficient and protect investors. With some of these foreign filers, it is the Wild West -- they disclose what they want, when they want.''
 And this disclosure gap is likely to become more of a problem for investors as they turn increasingly to foreign stocks as an alternative to swooning domestic shares. The United States dollar's slide has also propelled more investors into stocks of overseas companies. 
 Daniel Saks, Taro's spokesman, said: ''We have always complied, on a timely basis, with all disclosure requirements applicable to us under U.S. law. We reported on our first and second quarters of this year on April 29, 2004, and July 29, 2004, in each case more than two weeks before U.S. companies were required to report on their comparable quarters.'' 
 Asked if the company was considering increasing its disclosure beyond what the S.E.C. requires, Mr. Saks said: ''We will change our disclosure practices in response to any change in applicable requirements.''
 But Mr. Taxin said: ''More than a billion dollars has been lost suddenly by investors in Taro, and I think it fair for them to ask: When did the company know about these problems and why didn't it warn investors clearly and earlier?''
 Unfortunately, the answer may be, because it didn't have to.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Lost Value''Taro Pharmaceuticals stock priceGraph tracks Taro Pharmaceuticals stock price since January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Company Reports; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: TARO PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (59%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%) Securities and Exchange Commission; taro pharmaceutical industries

TICKER: TARO (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (59%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



207 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2603 words

HEADLINE: Camp, Shmamp. I'd Rather Play With the Fireflies.

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Kevin Cahillane and Jane Gordon contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
THERE was a time, at least in the misty land of memory, when a clear line of demarcation existed between the last day of school and the first day of summer vacation. Walking out of the schoolhouse door, clutching the raggedy contents of his or her desk, a child felt that moment of liberation from school pressures -- both social and academic -- as keenly as a convict released from jail.
 Those were the days, as myth would have it, when mothers were more available, streets were safe enough for children to roam and the suburbs were still new, planted with modest houses and spindly trees. Those were the days when children did not have to do but could just be.
 Summer was the time for sleeping late, digging in the dirt, roaming the neighborhood on a bike, playing kick the can and war. 
 But then the line between the end of school and the beginning of summer began to grow fuzzier. Summer turned into a continuation of the rest of the year, a season of expensive sleep-away camps, sweaty sports camps and globe-trotting adventures. Only the uncool, the disorganized and families with no other options kept their children at home, dependent on their own wit and imagination to keep busy.
 Today change is in the air once again. Some people in the suburbs say they see a countertrend developing -- a movement back toward the unabashedly ordinary, low-pressure summers that parents remember from their own childhoods: summers of catching fireflies, getting to know cousins and visiting grandparents. 
 In Westchester, a group of boys meet at the schoolyard most afternoons to play a lazy game of stickball. In Connecticut, a mother who gave up her job as a litigator to spend more time with her children has found that her children were burned out by the effort to make summer stimulating instead of relaxing, and would rather just stay home.
 On Long Island, the Hempstead town supervisor has seen a rise in the number of children enrolling in free or low-cost summer recreation programs. And in New Jersey, a family is rediscovering the public library. To some degree, parents say, they are rebelling against the high cost of summer camps. But a more subtle cultural change may be in the air, a conviction that the competition to turn summer into an extension of the school year, an endless race to get into Harvard, has gotten out of hand. People are exhausted by the effort to find a summer activity that will look good on a college application. And they are no longer convinced that getting into the right summer camp is important to their children's future.
 In Ryan Kahn's case, staying home was a choice. At 14, he was old enough to make his own decision. He had tried sleep-away camp in past years and liked it well enough. But he decided that this year he wanted a break.
 Ryan goes to a daily tennis camp in his hometown, New Rochelle. But when camp is over, at 4 p.m., he spends most afternoons playing stickball with his friends at George M. Davis Jr. Elementary School. They don't even have to call one another in advance; they just know to show up. Many evenings, they get together for a game of poker.
 The chemistry between Ryan and his friends may have something to do with their decision to spend the summer hanging out together. 
 ''This is a special group of kids,'' said Caryn Englander, mother of Sam, one of Ryan's friends. ''They're kind to each other. They don't have cliques.''
 After stickball, Ryan has dinner, then watches the news or a baseball game. He runs a small business taking orders for a printing company on commission. He reads from his school's summer reading list. (Right now he is in the middle of ''The Body of Christopher Creed'' by Carol Plum-Ucci.) 
 His mother, Pam, is usually at home during the day, and he likes the feeling of being in the house with her, not necessarily interacting very much, but keeping each other company.
 But he also enjoys a certain amount of solitude. ''I just like to have time to myself, just thinking,'' he said.
 Kathy Coleman, who lives in Scarsdale, describes herself as ''anti-sleep-away camp.'' Her children are on the town swim team, but only for part of the summer. Ms. Coleman sells a line of children's clothing from her home, and can scale back her work during the summer to spend more time with her children, Emma, 5, and Julia, 9.
 THEIR summer so far has consisted of going to the town pool, the library or the beach, and doing chores around the house, like painting the bathroom apple green.
 Her older daughter reads a lot, and has plowed through ''How I Survived Being a Girl'' by Wendelin Van Draanen, the fourth volume of ''Harry Potter'' and several other books.
 ''I didn't go to nursery school,'' Ms. Coleman said. ''I didn't go to summer school, and I live a decent life now. My kids have had so much more than I had growing up. I guess I just don't want to wreck it by making them do something every minute of the day.'' 
 Judy Rintoul, a former litigator who is raising two children, Max, 10, and Emily, 12, in the central Connecticut town of Portland, shared some of Ms. Coleman's distaste for overscheduling.
 ''We did do a lot of the sort of busy suburban summer life at one time,'' she said. ''The stress of running around and the competitiveness of being in those programs was just not what we were looking for, and we found that being more selective about what we took them to in the summer ended up being more fun and more relaxing. We just felt that it built our family in new ways. It gives us more time to do things with each other, to learn about each other, to learn about ourselves.''
 The family's retreat into summer domesticity began four years ago with Ms. Rintoul's retirement from her job as an employment litigator.
 During a trial, she found, she might work 15-hour days and have no control over when she could be at home. If she was, she would send her children to bed at 7 p.m., to get them out of the way so she could go back to work.
 Summer camps became a form of day care. ''I had to find something for them to do,'' she said, while she and her husband, David, also a lawyer, were at work. Her children went to art camps, sports camps and writing camps, and Ms. Rintoul had to begin the enrollment process for these camps as early as January.
 ''It was exhausting,'' she said. ''They had back-to-back camps -- some sleep-away, some day camps, some half-day camps. All the weeks and hours and drop-off and pick-up times had to match.''
 Three years ago, she started home-schooling her children. This year, it seemed a natural extension of home-schooling to keep them home for the summer. Her children, Ms. Rintoul said, have never been bored.
 They putter around the garden, read, play on the computer and have friends over. They go to the theater. The only structured activity is music lessons.
 ''This is the kind of time when kids think about who they are and how things work,'' she said, ''the time when they generate questions about the world.''
 Ms. Rintoul concedes that as her children reach high-school age, they might feel more pressured to find summer activities that they can show off on a college application. But she is not sure she will give in.
 ''It's not enough to be smart, it's not enough to be wealthy, it's not enough to be good-looking anymore,'' she said. ''Even those three things together are not enough anymore. All these people putting their children's noses to the grindstone are still not guaranteed that at the end of that they're going to have a successful, well-adjusted, happy adult. Maybe my children won't be the most competitive people, but they'll have things to offer, and they'll be unique things.''
 EMELINE and Dave Thornell keep their two children, Sydney, 9, and Aidan, 5, engaged over the summer simply by opening the front door. Their middle-class street in upper-crust Summit had 43 school-age children the last time someone thought to count. Mr. Thornell, a chemist for Northeast Laboratories in New York City, and Mrs. Thornell, a cardiac nurse at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, both work full time. 
 But they have stay-at-home children thanks to flexible work schedules and a reliable baby sitter. Mrs. Thornell, for one, is grateful for the comfort of neighbors.
 ''It's like it was when we were growing up,'' she said. ''Everyone on the block just goes outside and plays, and people talk to each other on the stoops. These days, everything has to be structured and there's this camp and that camp. I mean, did you ever go on a play date?''
 While this it-takes-a-village approach to bringing up children is nothing new, Mr. Thornell has added an atypical element to his children's summer itineraries: homework.
 Every afternoon, Sydney and Aidan retire to their rooms to read books, write letters, draw pictures and otherwise engage their creative and intellectual sensibilities during the otherwise dormant dog days of high summer.
 Sydney is passionate about dance, and Aidan has more natural athletic talent than you can shake a lacrosse stick at. But they don't miss camp; the highlight of the summer has been playing with the two new neighbor children next door.
 ''I wait at the window for them to come outside,'' Sydney said. When they do, the four go from house to house, running through sprinklers, watching ''Tom and Jerry'' videos and getting into their share of scrapes and bruises.
 In August, the Thornells take their show on the road to Mr. Thornell's parents' home in Massachusetts -- or, as Mrs. Thornell affectionately calls it, ''Camp Nana and Papa.''
 FLEXIBLE schedules seem typical among families whose children are home for the summer. That is the case with Mary Meyer, who lives in Glen Ridge, N.J., and keeps the payroll for her husband's security company. She does the books at night, or postpones some work until October, so she can stay home with Andrew, 12, and Carolyn, 10. The two have spent a week in theater camp, which is their passion, but otherwise they are improvising. Ms. Meyer admits that she keeps them home in part because camp is so expensive.
 But she keeps the atmosphere festive, even camplike. Her daughter has friends over for pajama parties. (They call them Cinderella sleepovers, because the children arrive in their pajamas but don't actually stay the night.) There are family game nights. The neighborhood children roam freely through backyards playing tag and having sword fights, and they catch fireflies at dusk.
 ''I think it's a great atmosphere for the kids,'' Ms. Meyer said.
 Bob and Leosinda Lebron of Jackson, N.J., have decided that summer camp is an unnecessary luxury. Their older boys, Alex, 15, and Kevin, 10, are able to stay home, and do whatever the day seems to dictate. 
 Mr. Lebron jostles the boys awake before leaving for his 75-minute journey up the parkway to his advertising job in Morristown. Mrs. Lebron drops off the baby, Sophie, 2, at a baby sitter's house in town before driving to her job as a programmer at Merrill Lynch in Hopewell. 
 The boys then crash for a few more hours on the couch, their circadian rhythms thrown out of whack by the horror movies they stay up late watching. 
 When they do rise, they engage in the most time-honored of summer traditions. ''We mostly watch TV and go outside,'' Kevin said. Outside amounts to collecting box turtles, playing hockey and throwing a stuffed teddy bear at a live hornets' nest. Occasionally, and with mixed results, their father will ask them to ''clean something.'' While the summer days pass languorously enough, afternoons and evenings are often devoted to shuttling back and forth to hockey practices and games all over South Jersey. Nobody seems to miss summer camp. 
 ''I spend enough money on hockey that I couldn't afford it even if I wanted to,'' Mr. Lebron said. ''Plus, I just think they're safer at home. Particularly when you have a retired police officer next door.''
 THE summer has also featured a two-week visit by Mrs. Lebron's sister and her family from Colombia, as well as field trips to the beach and even Yankee Stadium. 
 For other parents, like Ann Bonini, who lives in Canton, Conn., summer is a juggling act. Ms. Bonini works part time as a bookkeeper at Hartford Florist Supply, which is run by her husband, Richard. She often takes her children, Hannah, 5, Henry, 8, and Olivia, 10, to work with her, and they work, too.
 ''We fill out a time sheet,'' Henry said. ''And we clean walls and weed.''
 Henry admits that the summer days can be long, and he sometimes wishes he could go to camp. But his mother says they moved to their neighborhood of front porches, rolling lawns and smooth driveways so the children would have a place to play. Sending them away for the summer would defeat the purpose of living in such an idyllic setting. ''Camps are not necessary here,'' she said.
 And there are compensations to staying close to home. In less affluent families, relatives are likely to be relied on to take care of the children. Barbara Hicks, who is retired from working in a laundry and is rearing her granddaughters, Sasha, 15, and Shamira, 14, in Hartford, sees summer as a chance for the girls to spend time with their network of cousins and their older sister. 
 The bonds between the cousins, Ms. Hicks said, grow stronger with each passing summer.
 IN some places, government officials have tried to strip away the economic barriers that keep children home when they would rather be in camp.
 Kate Murray, the supervisor in the Long Island town of Hempstead, estimates that 2,500 children from 5 to 13 years old are taking part in free town recreational programs this summer, and that another 10,000 are taking swimming lessons. 
 ''Most of the time kids can ride their bike and get to a pool,'' she said. ''The accessibility is there. We offer a little bit of independence for kids growing up. They can spread their wings and be in a very safe environment.''
 And every time she visits a town pool, Ms. Murray says, she feels as if she were a child again, back in that misty land of memory, when she was free to be and not to do.

Sleeping In vs. Sleep-Away
 SHOULD parents send their children away for the summer? That depends on what those children have been doing for the rest of the year, said Ester S. Buchholz, a professor of applied psychology at New York University and the author of ''The Call of Solitude: Alonetime in a World of Attachment'' (Simon & Schuster, 1997).
 Some children do need a break, Dr. Buchholz said, because their lives have been too structured, too pressured. ''Our culture these days is very into not wasting a moment's time. We must teach our children everything under the sun starting from Day 1. 
 ''But if our thoughts are always monitored and programmed by others, then how do we build our own judgment, our own sense of who we are and our personal integrity?''
 But she pointed out that the overstructured life seems to be more of a problem for affluent children than for poor children. It is those who cannot afford to travel or to take music and art lessons who need summer camp the most, and who are least likely to get it.
 There is such a thing, Dr. Buchholz said, as too much stimulation. And constant activity can become a way of avoiding independent thinking. If the television or the camp counselor is always telling children what to do next, there is no need for them to be creative.
 ''If you look at the lives of the people who have been the most productive, if you look at the Einstein or the Mozart, they had a lot of time, a lot of space and quiet,'' she said. ''It's sort of funny that we want to emulate them, but we're actually not.'' ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS


GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry Bonini, kneeling, strums his guitar with his friend Eric Scott, in Canton, Conn. His mother, Ann, back left, and Eric's mother, Sarah, are their audience. In New Rochelle, Ryan Kahn takes his turn at bat in stickball with Stephen Kahn. The Thornells in Summit, N.J., transform their street into a playground: Emeline, left
Sydney
Aidan on his bike
 and David. (Photographs by George Ruhe, above, Chris Maynard, left, and Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Drawing (Drawing by Felipe Galindo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); LITIGATION (76%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (66%); LIBRARIES (60%); LITERATURE (60%) Camps and Camping; Families and Family Life; Suburbs ; Children and Youth; Books and Literature

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis; Ester S Buchholz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



208 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; FOOTLIGHTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 679 words

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON. 
E-mail: westarts@nytimes.com

 BODY:

Looking for a High Note
 The story of the Burla family of Hastings-on-Hudson has the makings of a movie: war, poverty, courage and devotion, as well as the extraordinary talent of a child. Nely and Marat Burla left their native Ukraine in 1990 in search of economic opportunity. 
 They moved to Israel, but bombing in their frontier town drove them underground. After four years they moved to Montreal and then Toronto, where Ms. Burla, a pianist and teacher, and her husband, a piano technician, found stability. It was in Toronto that Alice, now 7, was born, joining her brother, Konstantin, now 15. 
 Alice, who will enter the third grade at Hillside Elementary School in Hastings, showed unusual musical ability by the age of 2, and won a national Canadian piano competition when she was 5. Ms. Burla, who was Alice's teacher, thought the Juilliard School would give her daughter the best musical education. Alice auditioned and was accepted on a partial scholarship into the precollege division, an intensive program on Saturdays. The family moved to New York for Alice's sake, settling in Hastings because of its school system, ambience and proximity to Manhattan. But things have not gone well for the family. Mr. Burla has lost three jobs waiting for his work visa. Ms. Burla has not found a job, barely supporting the family with intermittent private teaching. ''It was a difficult winter,'' she said. ''We lived on donations.''
 Their plight caught the attention of a local newspaper, The Rivertowns Enterprise, based in Hastings. The music community gathered round the family, and as a result Alice, who has completed her first year at Juilliard, will give a concert on Aug. 18 at 6 p.m. at Frank and Camille's Fine Pianos in Manhattan, followed by a reception and the silent auction of a Yamaha Disklavier grand piano, a Yamaha professional upright and a Yamaha Clavinova digital piano. The suggested donation for the concert is $25. The proceeds will go to the Burlas. Information: (212)832-8289. 

Taking Cues Offstage
 Children aspiring to be professional Broadway singers and dancers will have the chance to meet two Broadway actresses at Youth Theater Interactions in Yonkers in the coming weeks. Youth Theater, an after-school performing arts organization, is presenting a series of free seminars in an effort to immerse young people in the performing life. On Thursday at 1 p.m. the speaker will be Susie Bigelow, an actress and singer who has appeared in ''Footloose,'' ''Oklahoma'' and ''South Pacific,'' as well as in soap operas. Michelle M. Robinson, an original cast member of the Broadway revival of ''Chicago,'' who also appeared in ''Jelly's Last Jam'' and ''Black and Blue,'' will speak about her career on Aug. 19 at 1 p.m. Information: (914)963-3040. 

Free With the Swing
 The season of free outdoor events continues with ''Summer Night's Swing'' on Wednesday at 6 p.m. at Renaissance Fountain Plaza, across from City Center in White Plains. Cappelli Enterprises is the host for the event, which will feature the Benson-Scott Big Band. Dancers from the Arthur Murray dance studio will conduct a group dance lesson, and Robert Royston, choreographer of the show ''Swing,'' will perform a swing dance. Free refreshments will be offered from 6 to 7 p.m. and free desserts from 9 to 10 p.m., by White Plains restaurants. 

Stories for a Summer Day
 The Mohegan Colony Association in Crompond will present its fourth annual festival of storytelling on Saturday from noon until 10 p.m. Stories for children will be told in an historic stone schoolhouse, adult stories under the Mohegan Colony Pavilion and a ghost story ''concert'' around the campfire at Mohegan Colony Beach (bring your own blankets, towels and chairs). 
 Judith Heineman, a storyteller, actress and performance artist, is coordinating the event, which includes Jonathan Kruk, Jack Maguire, Loren Niemi and a belly dancer, Gina Bergamini. Admission ranges from $15 to $10 for adults and $6 or $5 for children. A pot luck dinner can be bought for $5. Information: (914)528-5830. ROBERTA HERSHENSON


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSIC (89%); FILM (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); CHARITIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); IMMIGRATION (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (65%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (65%); DANCERS (60%); DANCE (60%); THEATER (58%) Music; Immigration and Refugees; Children and Youth; Music

ORGANIZATION: Juilliard School (NYC); Renaissance Foundation; Mohegan Colony Assn

PERSON: Roberta Hershenson; Alice Burla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (91%); UKRAINE (90%) Ukraine; Yonkers (NY); White Plains (NY); Crompound (NY); Hastings-on-Hudson (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



209 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Postcards From the Fringe

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
IS there such a thing as too many options? It can feel that way with the New York International Fringe Festival, that behemoth showcase that takes over the downtown theater scene every August. With performances beginning Friday and running through Aug. 29, the eighth annual fringe features 194 low-budget productions from nine countries and 30 American cities, being shown at 20 sites -- all of which make it the biggest theatrical crapshoot in North America. Pity the poor theatergoer trying to sort through the menu of eye-catching titles (''The Cosmic Calamities of Henry Noodle,'' a ''new sci-fi musical comedy adventure''), exercises in irony (''Jonestown: The Musical'') and proudly tasteless provocations (''Die, Die, Diana: A Musical''). 
 With adequate preparation, however, it is possible to locate the gems. So pore over the lineup, study every corner of the Web site, conduct extensive interviews with participants and do background research on all their former productions. Or just consider this abridged guide to the 10 shows that people will be (or should be) talking about. For more information from Present Company, the fringe producers: 212-279-4488 or www.fringenyc.org.

BELIEVE IN ME . . . A BIGFOOT MUSICAL
 It's the inevitable question: What show has the best chance to be the next ''Urinetown,'' the Broadway breakout that is the dream of many fringe artists? With a high-caliber artistic team and enthusiastic word of mouth, this musical, which has been praised by Mark Hollmann, the composer of ''Urinetown,'' on its Web site (www.big footmusical. com), might have the best shot. The well-regarded songwriter Michael Holland, half of the chic cabaret duo Gashole, composed the music and lyrics; Adrien Royce wrote the book, based on a stage play, about a documentary filmmaker who becomes obsessed with finding Bigfoot. Schaeberle Studio Theater at Pace University: Saturday at 7:45 p.m.; Aug. 17 at 3 p.m.; Aug. 19 at 5 p.m.; Aug. 26 at 8 p.m.; Aug. 27 at 4:45 p.m. 

ARMLESS
 Kyle Jarrow, New York's hipster playwright du jour, has a strange sense of humor. Earlier this year, he helped write ''A Very Merry Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant,'' a deadpan musical biography of L. Ron Hubbard in which child actors spouted the teachings of Scientology. The offbeat show turned into an unlikely hit. Now Mr. Jarrow, who moonlights in a Devo-like band called the Fabulous Entourage, has written a grotesque comedy about a man (played by Sam Turich, above) who has unusual body issues: he desperately wants to cut off his arms. Sound weird? ''Look, it's his body: why can't he do whatever he wants with it? I'm conflicted about it,'' Mr. Jarrow says. ''It also strikes me as really funny.'' Plaza Cafe at Pace University: next Sunday at 1:30 p.m.; Aug. 19 at 8:45 p.m.; Aug. 20 at midnight; Aug. 28 at 7:45 p.m.; Aug. 29 at 4:45 p.m. 

GEEK LOVE
 Fans of Katherine Dunn's novel are still waiting for the long-rumored film version (David Lynch and Tim Burton have both been mentioned as directors), but in the meantime, this adaptation should more than suffice. The cult tale follows a couple of carnival performers who engineer a family of circus freaks by taking drugs to induce birth defects in their children. In this well-received and technically sophisticated production, which was first staged in Atlanta, elaborate prosthetics and puppeteering help create the flipper boy, conjoined twin sisters and an enormous baby named Mumpo the Mountain. Linhart Theater: Saturday at 5:30 p.m.; Aug. 18 at 8 p.m.; Aug. 19 at 3 p.m.; Aug. 20 at 5:15 p.m.; Aug. 21 at 3:30 p.m. 

HOST AND GUEST
 Paata and Irina Tsikurishvili, a married couple from the former Soviet Republic of Georgia, do the kind of work that you hardly ever see in the often frivolous fringe festival -- art with a capital A. Based on a Georgian poem, this movement-intensive show, which combines Chaplinesque mime and classical dance, follows a member of a Muslim tribe who dares to offer shelter to an enemy Christian. The Tsikurishvilis started really raising eyebrows after taking home three prizes at the Helen Hayes Awards, the Tonys of Washington, beating out established heavyweights like Arena Stage and the Shakespeare Theater. Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts at Pace University: Friday at 5 p.m.; next Sunday at 6:30 p.m.; Aug. 18 at 10:30 p.m.; Aug. 20 at 4 p.m.; Aug. 21 at 8 p.m. 

HOW TO SAVE THE WORLD AND FIND TRUE LOVE -- IN 90 MINUTES
 When Jonathan Karp took over as the editor in chief of Random House imprints in May, he found himself on top of one of the most prestigious perches in all of book publishing. So why is this bigwig writing, of all things, a fringe musical? Doesn't he know that this is more the realm of the unemployed slacker? Well, he can't help himself. ''I love theater,'' he says. ''I always have.'' His pop-infused show, which he describes as a mix of ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying'' and ''The Daily Show,'' imagines how an office romance inside the United Nations could create a global catastrophe. The good early buzz should help the musical draw more than just curious publishing types. Lucille Lortel Theater: Aug. 25 at 1 p.m.; Aug. 26 at 4 p.m.; Aug. 27 at 5:30 p.m.; Aug. 28 at 8:45 p.m.; Aug. 29 at noon. 

YOU'LL HAVE HAD YOUR HOLE
 When Irvine Welsh's gruesome revenge drama, about two skinheads who torture a longtime friend inside an abandoned recording studio, opened in England in 1998, critics were as brutal as the main characters. In fact, the reviews were so harsh -- the critic for The Daily Telegraph called it ''the most obnoxious and contemptible play I have ever sat through'' -- that they inspired a small backlash, as others came to the defense of Mr. Welsh (the author of the novel ''Trainspotting'') and the play's street-tough lyricism and poignant humor. This is its first American production (with Ian Pfister, foreground above, and Zack Calhoon), so judge for yourself. Collective Unconscious: Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 2 p.m.; Aug. 17 at 5:45 p.m.; Aug. 19 at 3 p.m.; Aug. 20 at 10 p.m.; Aug. 21 at 9:15 p.m.; Aug. 27 at 3 p.m.; Aug. 29 at 2 p.m. 

DOG SEES GOD: CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE BLOCKHEAD
 What would happen to the Peanuts gang if they ever grew older? Would Lucy start taking Prozac? Would Peppermint Patty come out of the closet? And, of course, the big question: Would Charlie Brown finally give up on kicking that football? If none of this holds any interest, there's still a good reason to see Bert V. Royal's unauthorized parody of Charles M. Schulz's comic strip -- the up-and-coming star Daniel Franzese, better known as Lindsay Lohan's gay friend in ''Mean Girls,'' is in the cast, along with Michael Gladis (at right). SoHo Playhouse: Saturday at 5:30 p.m.; Aug. 18 at 10:15 p.m.; Aug. 22 at noon; Aug. 26 at 3 p.m.; Aug. 28 at 7:45 p.m. 

HARVEY FINKLESTEIN'S SOCK PUPPET SHOWGIRLS
 There are generally two reactions to Paul Verhoeven's famously terrible film about Las Vegas showgirls -- groaning fury at the waste of two precious hours or cackling glee at the landmark of so-bad-it's-good kitsch. If you're in the second camp, don't miss this underground hit from Chicago, which has enough raunchy puppeteering to make the creators of ''Avenue Q'' avert their eyes. It's a condensed, if fairly faithful, version of the 1995 film's original screenplay, with a few improvements, like a scene in which the Cookie Monster, Big Bird and Elmo crudely hoot and holler at a stripper who prances around a tinfoil pole. Best keep the children far away. The Studio at the Cherry Lane Theater: Friday at 10:15 p.m.; Saturday at noon; next Sunday at 7:15 p.m.; Aug. 17 at 5:45 p.m.; Aug. 18 at 3 p.m. 

PITH!
 If you're not Canadian, you probably haven't heard of Stewart Lemoine, but he is one of the best-known fringe artists there is. A veteran of the Edmonton Fringe Festival -- which began in 1982, making it the first fringe in North America -- he is a prolific playwright who specializes in witty, slightly off-kilter dialogue and screwball scenarios. This comedy, which received a stack of rave reviews, follows an adventurous sailor (played by Jeff Haslam, above) who helps a society widow (Davina Stewart, above right) grieve by taking her and her maid (Leona Brausen) on an imaginary journey into the South American jungle. Connelly Theater: Friday at 6:30 p.m.; Aug. 19 at 11:30 p.m.; Aug. 22 at 7:45 p.m.; Aug. 25 at 3 p.m.; Aug 27. at 7:45 p.m.; Aug. 29 at 4:45 p.m. 

BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE HAZZARD
 An accomplished production team, including Bill Thompson, a producer of last year's fringe hit ''Cats Talk Back,'' and Will Frears, the director of the recent play ''Omnium Gatherum,'' makes this silly-looking sendup of ''The Dukes of Hazzard'' worth a serious look. But if you think this show will just be cheap shots about Daisy Dukes and hicks in big hats, think again. ''It deals with all these complex human emotions and issues: greed, lust, rage, ambition, jealousy, sexual jealousy, the fear of aging,'' Mr. Frears says. ''It's like Chekhov or Ibsen, only with car chases.'' (With Greg Derelian, near right, and Peter Katona at the wheel.) SoHo Playhouse: Friday at 4 p.m.; Aug. 20 at 5:45 p.m.; Aug. 22 at 2:30 p.m.; Aug. 25 at 8 p.m.; Aug. 27 at 5:45 p.m.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Rio Puertollano)
(Photo by Francis Kuzler)
(Photo by Ian Tresselt)
(Photo by Peter Edwards)
(Photo by Harvey Finklestein)
 (Photo by Craig Samuel Johnson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WRITERS (85%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); FILM (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); WEB SITES (76%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (74%); SONG WRITING (74%); MUSIC (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CHILDREN (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (63%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (61%) Theater; New York International Fringe Festival; Festivals

PERSON: Jason Zinoman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



210 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: A President's Leading Indicators

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 One economic measure, like the change in gross domestic product, cannot justify a president's policies.
 The current Bush administration's policy of using borrowed money to raise the G.D.P. is like a family using the proceeds of a second mortgage to raise its standard of living. In both cases, the negative impact will be felt later.

John D. LeDell
Basking Ridge, N.J., Aug. 4, 2004


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Knickerbocker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); SECOND MORTGAGES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



211 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; CONFLICT IN IRAQ: COMBAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: MARINES PUSHING DEEPER INTO CITY HELD BY SHIITES

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON and JOHN F. BURNS; Alex Berenson reported from Najaf for this article, and John F. Burns from Baghdad. Sabrina Tavernise contributed reporting from Baghdad.

DATELINE: NAJAF, Iraq, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Marine commanders battling Moktada al-Sadr's rebel militiamen in this Shiite holy city said Saturday that the fighting had cleared the rebels from the ancient cemetery in the heart of the old city, but that more fighting lay ahead in the streets and alleyways nearby as an American-led offensive moved to the end of its third day.
 American commanders, who said they were acting under orders from the new Iraqi government, gave little sign that they intended to heed appeals for a cease-fire from clerics and others claiming to represent Mr. Sadr. But their forces pulled back from the cemetery's edges overnight to take up more secure positions, and the city streets were mostly quiet. 
 The marines described engaging in hand-to-hand fighting in the vast cemetery, which lies adjacent to the ancient Imam Ali mosque, a golden-domed shrine that is one of the holiest in Shiite Islam. The 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit, which returned to Iraq recently after taking part in the American-led invasion last year, had endured the fiercest battle of all its engagements in Iraq, the commanders said. 
 ''The engagements in the cemetery were done on foot, encountering numerous fighters at a range when you can smell a man, and it's hand-to-hand combat,'' said Col. John Mayer, who leads the battalion that took part in the fighting. He spoke at a forward Marine base on the outskirts of Najaf, about three miles from the fighting, as fresh Marine units prepared at dusk for nighttime deployment into the city.
 American accounts of the fighting on Saturday said that there had been only sporadic exchanges of rifle, rocket and mortar fire after the intense battles of the previous 48 hours, in which the marines and an allied force of Iraqi police officers and national guardsmen claimed to have killed more than 300 fighters wearing the black outfits of the Mahdi Army, the militia force loyal to Mr. Sadr. Spokesmen for the militia have countered the claims, saying only 40 of their fighters had been killed.
 The United States command said American losses in the fighting up to noon on Saturday amounted to two marines and one soldier killed, and about 20 American servicemen seriously wounded.
 Reports from Najaf told of a city now largely deserted, especially in the area of the old city where the fighting has been concentrated. Shops and other businesses remained closed. The few people who ventured out on foot could be seen clearing rubble, seemingly oblivious to the rattle of nearby machine-gun fire. All power, water and telephone lines were cut.
 An Army battalion is expect to join the marines in Najaf, though Marine officers said the United States is hoping that Iraqi national guard and police will take the lead, especially at the fringe of the cemetery near the shrine; in that area the Americans are vulnerable to attack and feel constrained to wage an offensive. 
 In Baghdad, representatives of Mr. Sadr met Saturday with a United Nations official, Jamal Benomar, who offered himself as an intermediary, along with a group of Iraqis from a range of political and religious groups. Mr. Benomar said Mr. Sadr's envoys appeared to be reaching for a cease-fire. ''In a nutshell, they are keen to meet with the government and come to a settlement,'' Mr. Benomar said.
 But there was little sign a cease-fire would be accepted by the Iraqi government and American commanders. Instead, the indications at nightfall were that the American and Iraqi units intended to press the battle, in the hope of breaking the back of Mr. Sadr's force in Najaf.
 The Iraqi police commander in the city, Gen. Galib Hadi al-Jazaery, told reporters at the Marine base that Iraqi police officers and guardsmen had surrounded and attacked a house that Mr. Sadr has used as a headquarters in recent months. But the force did not find the cleric. ''We want to rid the city of this devil,'' General Jazaery said.
 Lt. Col. Aqil Khalil of the Iraqi national guard said the attack on the house was botched, and that the guard and police did not work effectively together. The Iraqis are struggling to prove themselves in battle. 
 Much in the immediate future of Iraq depends on the Najaf fighting, and on lower-intensity skirmishes in the last 72 hours in other urban areas across central and southern Iraq, including the sprawling slum of Sadr City, on Baghdad's outskirts, and the southern city of Nasiriya. The central question is whether the decision to confront the militiamen, and to do so in a place of the highest religious sensitivities, Najaf, will win the support of Iraq's Shiite majority, or provoke a potentially crippling backlash against the interim government of Prime Minister Ayad Allawi.
 On Saturday, after remaining silent during the first 48 hours of fighting, Dr. Allawi gave a news conference in Baghdad in which he appeared intent on reinforcing his appeal to Iraqis as the strongman many have said they wanted during the 15 months of lawlessness and insurgency that has followed the American invasion last year. 
 He turned aside appeals for a cease-fire, saying prisoners taken during the fighting included ''more than 1,000 criminals,'' at least 400 of whom had been released from prisons under an amnesty declared by Saddam Hussein six months before he was toppled from power.
 ''What has occurred in Najaf is pitiful,'' the prime minister said. Referring to the militiamen, he continued: ''These attacks have aimed at destabilizing the government. These people are trying to deprive our people of their freedom and progress. Our country has gone through too many wars, and too much hardship, and I'm confident our people will choose the path toward peace and prosperity.''
 Dr. Allawi described the fighting as an attempt to undermine the new government's efforts to improve security, strengthen the economy and prepare for parliamentary elections scheduled for the end of January. A fully elected government is planned by January 2006. At one point, he invited Mr. Sadr to abandon reliance on his militia and to run in the January elections, an idea that Mr. Sadr had already rejected.
 Dr. Allawi, a Shiite who trained as a physician and joined Mr. Hussein's ruling Baath Party as a student but defected to the exiled opposition 20 years ago, showed some of the political deftness he will need if he is to emerge from the tangled machinations of Shiite politics as a contender for power in the elections.
 He suggested at the news conference that the militiamen fighting in Najaf, whom the Americans have said have mostly worn the black outfits of Mr. Sadr's militia, might not be Sadr loyalists at all, but ''people using his name.'' He said he had been receiving ''positive messages from Moktada al-Sadr.'' But he gave no details, and did not clarify whether he was referring to private communications from the rebel cleric or to discussions in Baghdad earlier on Saturday between representatives of Mr. Sadr and Mr. Benomar. 
 Dr. Allawi's suggestion that Mr. Sadr might not be responsible for the men battling in Najaf appeared intended to provide an alternative to an all-out showdown with potentially grim implications for both men.
 If the Najaf fighting has shown Dr. Allawi at his most combative, he used his news conference to brandish a carrot along with the stick. He announced that he had signed a decree offering a 30-day amnesty period for people involved with the insurgency that has paralyzed wide areas of the country. The terms of the amnesty cover only relatively minor actions -- among them, possessing illegal arms and explosives, failing to disclose information about terrorist groups, and otherwise helping with attacks. But under American pressure, the amnesty offer would not include anybody who has engaged in killing United States troops. 
 Throughout the clashes, American military spokesmen have stressed the point that fighting with the Sadr militia has been undertaken under the political authority of the new government. They have said that the Najaf battle was triggered at early light on Thursday when the city's Iraqi governor appealed for the marines to send a quick reaction force from a tent camp 30 miles east of the city to support Iraqi policemen and national guardsmen defending a police station in Najaf's old city from waves of attack by the militiamen.
 The United Nations offered to try to resolve the fighting ''even at this late hour, to work out a cease-fire and peaceful solution.'' NATO sent a handful of officers, its first batch, to train government forces in Iraq. 
 At dusk on Saturday, Brig. Gen. Erwin F. Lessel III of the Air Force, the deputy operations director for the American command in Baghdad, said Najaf had been mainly quiet for much of the day, but that there had been exchanges of rifle and rocket fire around the cemetery. General Lessel said there was no immediate expectation of a cease-fire. ''We're going to continue operations,'' he said. ''We are not negotiating at this point.'' But he added that the political decisions were for Dr. Allawi, not for American commanders. ''The Iraqi government has the lead,'' he said. ''We are there in a supporting role, and we will support the government in its decisions. It was their resolve, their commitment to take this course of action, and there's no indication that they're going to stop.''
 United States military spokesmen have stressed that it was the Sadr fighters who turned the mosque and its vicinity into a battleground. They have said that Mr. Sadr's fighters have fired rifles, mortars and rockets from within the mosque or its roofs, as well as the cemetery, and that the marines have fired back only when fired upon.
 The 11th Marine Expeditionary Force, the American unit leading the fighting, issued a statement on Saturday saying that the militiamen had stored ''large weapons caches'' in the cemetery and had launched numerous attacks from the site, violating a cease-fire agreement reached with American forces in May.
 The statement added: ''While the international laws of armed conflict normally identify sites like this as protected places, such status is forfeited if the site is used for military purposes. The actions of the Moktada militia make the cemetery a legitimate military objective, which was only assaulted due to necessity and self-defense. During the fighting, the marines made every effort to minimize collateral damage and preserve the cemetery.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about fighting between rebel militiamen and Iraqi and American forces in Najaf misstated the rank of John Mayer, commander of the Marine battalion that took part. He is a lieutenant colonel, not a colonel.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Battles yesterday between an American-Iraqi force and a militant Shiite militia in Najaf left much of the downtown area in ruins. (Photo by Hassan Abdulzahrah/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 1)
 Marines patrolled Najaf yesterday and talked with residents of the city, where fierce fighting is continuing. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 14)Map of Iraq highlighting Najaf: Fighting in Najaf has slowed as troops have pushed forward. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); SHOOTINGS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); POLICE FORCES (59%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (88%) Alex Berenson; John F Burns; Moktada Al- Sadr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Najaf (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



212 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: China in Africa: All Trade, With No Political Baggage

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
A look of satisfaction played on the trade official's face as he reeled off statistics recently from a ministry report about China's booming commerce with Africa.
 ''Forty African countries have trade agreements with China now,'' said the official, Li Xiaobing, deputy director of the West Asian and African Affairs division of the Trade Ministry. ''We are doing a railway project in Nigeria, a Sheraton hotel in Algeria and a mobile telephone network in Tunisia. We are all over Africa now.'' 
 For any doubters, a glance at the statistics indicates that the official's exultation is, if anything, understated. Though starting from a modest base, China's trade with the African continent reached $18.5 billion in 2003, an increase of 50 percent since 2000, and it is on track for another big increase this year.
 China's push into Africa is all the more remarkable because it comes when that continent has become the virtual stepchild of the international trade system, a mere footnote -- or worse, simply unmentioned in discussions of global commerce.
 Beijing's fast-rising involvement with Africa grows out of China's immense and growing need for natural resources, in particular for imported oil, of which 25 percent now comes from Africa.
 Lacking the economic and political ties that Western Europe has with Africa as a legacy of colonialism, and the economic power that the United States wields because of its wealth and influence in international financial institutions, China's new leadership under President Hu Jintao has pushed to forge stronger ties. Mr. Hu himself traveled to Africa in January and February, visiting Egypt, Gabon and Algeria.
 China's diplomatic machine has spared no effort, making sure that African leaders do not view its interest as a passing fancy. The prime minister and vice president have also visited Africa in the last year.
 Experts in African affairs say that China's choices of partners and its diplomatic philosophy, which preaches noninterference in other countries' internal affairs, may have important consequences for Africa, especially at a time when Western countries seem largely preoccupied elsewhere. At one time many African countries, whether colonies locked in liberation struggles or fledgling, often nonaligned states, viewed China as a progressive ally and counterweight to the West. But those days are gone, and increasingly, China's involvement in Africa is pure big business.
 In visiting Gabon, for example, Mr. Hu was honoring the leadership of Omar Bongo, a man who has become immensely rich while ruling his country autocratically since 1967. With its tiny size and population, Gabon ranks high in China's sights for one obvious reason: it is a longstanding oil exporter open to new investments in its petroleum industry.
 A diplomat from Benin expressed disappointment. ''We're a socialist-Marxist state, and we've had 30 years of ties with the People's Republic of China, and yet they bypassed us to go to Gabon,'' the diplomat was quoted as saying by The South China Morning Post, a Hong Kong daily. ''This tells me that China has no friends but rather only interests.'' 
 Although Benin was long a Marxist dictatorship, for the last decade it has been one of Africa's freest democracies.
 Elsewhere on the continent, China has become a vitally important partner of Africa's largest country, Sudan, at a time when the government there, a perennial abuser of human rights, has been accused by international rights groups and the United States Congress of organizing genocide.
 ''We started with Sudan from scratch,'' boasted the trade official, Mr. Li. ''When we started there, they were an oil importer, and now they are an oil exporter. We've built refineries, pipelines and production.'' 
 He dismissed a question about Sudan's human rights record, saying, ''We import from every source we can get oil from.''
 China's deputy foreign minister, Zhou Wenzhong, was even more blunt. ''Business is business,'' he said in a recent interview. ''We try to separate politics from business. Secondly, I think the internal situation in the Sudan is an internal affair, and we are not in a position to impose upon them.''
 Mr. Zhou went on to blame the West for many of Africa's problems, saying: ''You have tried to impose a market economy and multiparty democracy on these countries, which are not ready for it. We are also against embargos, which you have tried to use against us.''
 This ''see no evil'' approach has not been cost-free. 
 In a report about the role of Sudan's oil industry in supporting an oppressive government in that country, Human Rights Watch, a New York-based advocacy group, wrote about a financing venture by the state-owned China National Petroleum Corporation. 
 ''China's first foray into the world of high finance -- to open up its enormous government-owned corporations to foreign investment -- was a controversial offer to sell stock in C.N.P.C. to the public on the New York Stock Exchange,'' the report said. ''Its offer, designed to raise a record U.S. $10 billion, had to be withdrawn and refashioned because of the negative publicity suggesting that the proceeds would be used to commit further human rights abuses in Sudan, Tibet and elsewhere.''
 Some experts in African affairs caution that by taking a classic big-power approach to African relations, China may be compromising its long-term influence there.
 ''For most of the postcolonial period, France, Britain and the United States also embraced some of the most unsavory regimes in Africa,'' said Gerald Bender, a professor of international relations at the University of Southern California. 
 ''What China is perhaps not anticipating is how, when you embrace these terrible regimes, you eventually get tainted for it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about China's increased trade with Africa misstated the position of a Chinese economic official who was interviewed, and mistranslated the name of his ministry. The official, Li Xiaobing, is a division chief, not a deputy director. He works for the Department of West Asian and African Affairs at the Ministry of Commerce, not the Ministry of Trade. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''FOR THE RECORD: China's Growing Trade With Africa''China's total trade volume with Africa, in billions of dollars.Graph tracks China's total trade volume with Africa, measured in billions of dollars, from 1999 to 2003.(Source by China Customs Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HU JINTAO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) AFRICA (99%); CHINA (97%); GABON (93%); ALGERIA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TUNISIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



213 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FUND-RAISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Republican Donors Are Paying to Play At the Convention

BYLINE: By GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Lunch at the Plaza Hotel. Dinner at Le Cirque. Cocktails at the New York Stock Exchange. That's the least the Republican Party could do to welcome its top fund-raisers to the convention in New York this month. Right?
 Yes, but there's just one catch. They have to pay for it. 
 These supporters -- some of whom have raised $200,000 or more for President Bush or the party -- are being charged a ''convention fee'' this year of up to $4,500 per person for themselves and each guest, according to a Web page run by LogiCom Project Management, the company handling the events and travel arrangements.
 That's just for starters. The fund-raisers will also pay for airfare, several nights in a hotel and optional events they might choose -- like a fashion show at Barneys or the U.S. Open tennis tournament. The result is that a couple could easily run up a tab of well over $10,000.
 ''A lot of us looked at that thing and said, whoa!'' said Bruce Bialosky of California, who raised $100,000 to become a Pioneer fund-raiser. He estimates that the convention will cost him and his family $15,000. ''A lot of people just can't afford that.''
 Republican officials say the fees have risen this year -- they topped out at $1,750 in 2000 -- because of the new McCain-Feingold campaign finance law, which eliminated the unlimited so-called soft money contributions that used to make up a large part of the party's finances and were traditionally used to pay for convention events. Now operating on a leaner budget, the Republican Party chose to pass the costs on to those attending the convention rather than spend cash that could be used to support President Bush in the election.
 ''We want to use our hard money resources in the smartest way possible,'' said Christine Iverson, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee. ''When we win, everyone will appreciate that we marshaled our resources to support a victory.''
 The fees might have been considered a contribution if collected by the national committee, so officials instead hired LogiCom to collect the money and run the events.
 While Democratic fund-raisers got into parties free during their national convention in Boston, some Republicans -- even the most well off -- are experiencing sticker shock. A few said they called campaign officials to complain. Others are looking into leaving their spouses behind, sharing hotel rooms or taking other measures to cut costs. Almost all said they have heard grumbling from their friends in fund-raising circles.
 ''The price of playing the game has risen dramatically,'' said Fred Zeidman, a Texas fund-raiser who has brought in at least $200,000. ''I don't think anybody is happy about writing the check. But it's a cost of doing business.''
 The Bush campaign is famously frugal, sometimes serving hot dogs and other plain fare at fund-raising events. As Shawn Steel, a California fund-raiser who has brought in $200,000 together with his wife, joked, ''These are about the stingiest bunch of guys I've ever seen.'' 
 At the same time, Mr. Steel and many other fund-raisers, including Mr. Bialosky and Mr. Zeidman, said they understood the need for the charges. ''I don't blame them,'' Mr. Bialosky said. ''They didn't have a choice. They are not trying to stick it to us, there are costs to these things.''
 Political conventions are often seen as a way to thank fund-raisers for months of collecting large checks -- and to get them to raise more before Election Day in November.
 To some, the pricing structure itself may seem unfair because the biggest fund-raisers, instead of being rewarded for their success, are expected to fork over even more money to attend the events.
 Mr. Bush's Rangers, who each raised at least $200,000 for the campaign, are being asked to pay $4,500; Pioneers, who raised at least $100,000, are being asked for $4,000; Mavericks, the under-40 fund-raisers who gathered at least $50,000, are being asked to pay $3,650. Several other packages cost less, according to the LogiCom site. 
 Fund-raisers at all three levels are being invited to a concert at Lincoln Center featuring the singer Linda Eder, a finance committee lunch at the Plaza Hotel (complete with breakout sessions afterward), receptions at Tavern on the Green and the New York Stock Exchange, and a farewell party at Cipriani's on the last day of the convention.
 There are also some special perks. 
 Rangers, for example, get a lunch at Sotheby's and the opportunity to stay at the Ritz-Carlton, but rooms costing $475 to $700 a night are already sold out, according to the site. What is left in a block of rooms reserved for donors starts at $850, with suites beginning at $2,000 -- and there is a five-night minimum.
 Officials at LogiCom declined to comment on the events or the costs, referring calls to the Republican National Committee. Ms. Iverson, the committee spokeswoman, declined to say how much the events cost to organize in total or the terms of the LogiCom contract. 
 Of course, fund-raisers do not have to attend special parties, nor do they have to stay at fancy hotels. There are more than enough events that cost little or nothing. 
 But some Republicans say the fun of a convention is mixing with fellow fund-raisers, many of whom are friends from other states they have been working with for months, whether it is in the convention hall, in hotel hospitality suites or at parties given especially for them.
 So it was for Mr. Bialosky, who found economical airfares, opted for cheaper accommodations and chose a cheaper package of events in order to trim costs so he could attend with his wife and his two teenage children.
 ''I really wanted to be a Pioneer or a Ranger; that's what I worked my butt off to do,'' Mr. Bialosky said. ''I don't have an endless pot of money to commit to political events. But I didn't want to go there and not participate in the Pioneer and Ranger stuff. That felt horrible.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); TENNIS (68%); SPORTS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); AIR FARES (54%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (53%); FASHION SHOWS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LogiCom Project Management

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Glen Justice; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



214 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE-PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: For Edwards Fans, the Ticket's Appeal Starts at the Bottom

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
More than an hour earlier than the Secret Service required, Vernon L. Blalock showed up to stand on the rolling front lawns of the Gothic-style Old State Capitol in Baton Rouge, La., for a John Edwards rally last week. 
 ''For me, Mr. Edwards is the big dog in this race,'' Mr. Blalock said. ''The feelings of the South run through his veins.'' 
 Mr. Blalock, 50, says the Kerry-Edwards ticket will get his vote, but only thanks to Mr. Edwards, who spent much of the week barnstorming the South, from Baton Rouge to Memphis. As with a number of other supporters who turn up to cheer at Edwards rallies, to Mr. Blalock, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic presidential nominee, is a mere add-on. 
 ''Without Edwards there, I probably would have just sat on my hands come Election Day,'' said Mr. Blalock, a lifelong Democrat. ''I couldn't vote for Bush, and Kerry just doesn't excite me.''
 Advisers to Mr. Kerry suggest that Senator Edwards, of North Carolina, may make Democrats competitive in some Southern states at a time when the region has become increasingly Republican. But with the exception of perhaps one or two states -- including Louisiana -- most analysts say that seems unlikely.
 Mr. Kerry once told a crowd in San Francisco that it was possible to reach the White House without winning a single Southern state, an assessment that even some Republicans say is not unreasonable. But that has not stopped Mr. Edwards from gunning for voters like Mr. Blalock.
 At Sammy's Bar and Grill, near the Georgia Pacific paper mill where he works, Mr. Blalock said he was not the only person backing Mr. Edwards. While the clientele is evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats, Mr. Blalock said the choice of Edwards had inspired the Democrats.
 ''We say Mr. Edwards is Bubba without the baggage,'' Mr. Blalock said, referring to Bill Clinton. ''Everyone at Sammy's with a baseball cap and chewing tobacco is excited to vote for him. The polo shirts won't change their mind; they're always Republican.''
 For June Majors, a 72-year-old retired accountant from East Prairie, Mo., Mr. Edwards inspired a political awakening that has her serving as Democratic state delegate.
 ''I am just giving Kerry the benefit of the doubt,'' Ms. Majors said. ''In eight years, I expect to cast a vote for Edwards as president and Hillary Clinton as vice president.''
 Votes from such supporters will be crucial to Mr. Kerry as he seeks to capitalize on his running mate's Southern appeal.
 ''After the Midwest, our biggest ad spend is in the South, and with good reason,'' said Tad Devine, a senior strategist on the Kerry campaign. ''We can expand the battlegrounds in the South, and Edwards is a key.''
 Such an assessment may be overly optimistic, said Hastings Wyman, founder and publisher of The Southern Political Report.
 ''My instinct tells me that Edwards will be a help in Florida, but not so much in other states,'' Mr. Wyman said. ''It is still early and it is a very close race, but so far he is not bringing much change to the polls.''
 While Florida has been the largest state for advertising spending by the Kerry campaign, with more than $13 million spent, Mr. Devine said the response to Mr. Edwards in the South had been strong in Tennessee and Louisiana, which both voted Republican in 2000 by narrow margins.
 ''We think we can tie the president down in the South, thanks to Edwards's ability to connect with people and on shared experiences,'' Mr. Devine said. ''The efforts we are making down there are a totally different picture from four years ago with Bush.''
 That was the strategy behind Mr. Edwards's campaign swing through Florida, Louisiana, Arkansas, Tennessee and Missouri. In stops that have included a picnic in a public park in Shreveport, La., and a front-porch visit in Orlando, Fla., Mr. Edwards and his wife, Elizabeth, have played up their Southern roots.
 One of Mr. Edwards's biggest appeals is his ability to champion economic opportunity to minorities and those with scant resources, said Carl Johnson, 58, a retired city administrator who sported a Panama hat at a rally near B.B. King's Blues Club on Beale Street in Memphis.
 ''Unfairness in the economic framework is a major issue,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''Edwards shows how far a child can go with an education from one of those supposedly far-behind public school districts of the South.''
 Mr. Edwards's Southern accent has grown noticeably broader during the Southern tour, with ''y'all'' and ''ma'am'' and ''Lord knows'' punctuating his speech with great frequency as he weaves tales of his Southern youth into the stump speech. 
 Emergent themes in the South include his horror of growing up under segregation and how working on a North Carolina road crew taught him about government wastefulness.
 ''Whenever you'd go out working in the sun on a road crew there would be somebody who was supposed to be working too, but who would be standing in the shade,'' Mr. Edwards told a town hall-style meeting in Alexandria, La. ''You would ask what he's doing and they would say, 'He's supervising.'''
 The clear comfort Edwards had in addressing audiences infected his wife, Elizabeth, who also broadened her accent while expanding her introductions to include details such as the price he paid for her wedding band ($11), how much she paid for his ($22) and talk of hardship in his hometown.
 While analysts differ on whether Mr. Edwards could win over many Southern states, Louisiana and Tennessee may be the most readily wooed by his charm offensive.
 ''Edwards will make a difference in Louisiana because he has energized the Democratic base,'' said Malcolm Myer, the state director for Senator John B. Breaux, a Democrat from that state. ''When we can get Louisiana's Democratic base excited, we can draw out the votes.'' 
 The Bush campaign dismisses any possible impact from Mr. Edwards in the South. ''It is a misfounded notion to think that Edwards will be able to make any difference in the South, even in Louisiana or Tennessee,'' said Brian Jones, a spokesman for the Bush campaign. ''Both of these guys are too liberal and culturally out of step with the conservative voters of the South.'' 
 But seeing a self-made Southerner on the Democratic ticket certainly swayed Paul F. Johnson, 63, an independent voter.
 ''The boy grew up in rural America and dreamed of going to college,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''He's not like the others; he is everyday people.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Edwards campaigning last week in Alexandria, La. (Photo by Mario Villafuerte/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); PAPER MFG (68%); PAPER MILLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (65%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (65%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (65%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (65%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (90%); ALEXANDRIA, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



215 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: So the Jobs Report Is Dismal. The Fed Has No Place to Go but Up.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WHAT will Fed policy makers do this week in the face of surprisingly weak job growth in the last two months? Raise interest rates, of course.
 Despite the awkward timing of the Fed meeting, so soon after Friday's report that only 32,000 new jobs were created in July, the Fed has little maneuvering room. ''The Fed is going to raise rates,'' said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research. 
 He said that one reason Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, would go ahead was that ''he has got to raise rates so he can cut them again if there is a terrorist attack.'' 
 In addition, if the Fed does not raise its benchmark short-term interest rate a quarter point on Tuesday, to 1.5 percent, as expected, many investors and market analysts may take that as a signal that policy makers are worried that the economy may slow even more.
 But there is no doubt, Mr. Yamarone said, that the jobs report has made the central bank's task more difficult, especially its need to explain its actions to the markets, politicians and individual investors.
 ''Captain Greenspan has to navigate between a tightening campaign, which he has promised, and, now, concern about the slowing of economic growth,'' he said.
 The sudden drought in jobs is startling. The number of new jobs created in July was the lowest for any month since December's report of 8,000. In addition, last week's report cut June's job growth to 78,000, from an already weak 112,000. And May's total slipped to 208,000 from 235,000. 
 The average pace of job growth for the last two months is now 55,000, and for the last three months the average is 106,000. That is below the average of 153,000 for the nine months from September 2003, when the recent decline in jobs stopped, through May. And it is not far above the 81,000 average from September through February -- a pace so slow that investors and economists alike worried about the sustainability of the recovery.
 For Mr. Greenspan, the slowing of job growth undermines his assurance to Congress last month that the economy was in a ''soft patch'' at the end of the second quarter that would turn out to be temporary.
 For President Bush, the bar has been raised. Before the July data was released, Mr. Bush needed an average of 190,000 new jobs a month from July through December to avoid being the first president since Herbert Hoover with a jobs decline during his term. Mr. Bush now needs an average of almost 234,000 new jobs a month for August through December to avoid a net loss of jobs.

PIVOTAL DATA -- More potentially troubling economic data are due this week.
 On Thursday, the government is to report July retail sales, which are expected to rise only 1.1 percent, according to Bloomberg's consensus forecast. Given the jobs data and the 1.1 percent retail sales decline in June, even meeting that forecast may not buoy investor spirits.
 Just in time for Friday the 13th come reports on producer prices for finished goods, expected to rise just 0.2 percent, and consumer confidence, which is also forecast to rise. But wait until the weak jobs data sink in.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retail Sales''Graph tracks monthly changes from 2003 through estimated 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); TERRORISM (54%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Labor

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



216 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Steers Message With Eye to the Nation's Center

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: LAMAR, Colo., Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Cruising across the country on a post-convention tour by road, water and rail, John Kerry has begun reaching out to moderate, undecided voters with a general-election message that suggests he is more confident in his base than President Bush is in his own.
 ''I want to talk to the people who aren't here,'' he said in Hannibal, Mo., on Wednesday, a line he is repeating everywhere he goes. ''I want to talk to rural, I want to talk to conservative Missouri. I want to talk to Republicans and independents -- because I want to talk common-sense, mainstream American values.''
 Indeed, while Democrats note that Mr. Bush continues to talk about banning gay marriage and late-term abortions, and to visit bedrock Republican areas of the country like Michigan's Upper Peninsula, Mr. Kerry, the Democrat from Massachusetts, is rolling through the Great Plains and the high plateaus of the Southwest preaching fiscal responsibility, tax cuts, gun owners' rights and national security. 
 In his choice of themes and in his tone, Mr. Kerry is running straight up the middle, as polls show he has solidified his backing among Democrats, with more of his supporters now saying they are voting for him as opposed to voting against Mr. Bush.
 With a new stump speech distilled from his convention address, he is steadily suppressing the harsh tone that helped win him the nomination and leavening his message with talk of hope and values.
 Before, Mr. Kerry ended his speeches by saying Democrats could crow ''mission accomplished'' if he defeated Mr. Bush in November. Now, he seems to be channeling Ronald Reagan -- or letting his running mate, John Edwards, rub off on him.
 ''We need to look to the next horizon, we need to catch on to the next dream,'' Mr. Kerry said in closing out a rally in Harrisburg, Pa. ''America's future is to be grabbed. And we're the ones who are going to grab it, and we're going to do it this November. Let's go out and make it happen -- America's hope is ahead of us, the sun is rising, our best days are ahead of us.''
 The John Kerry who drew more than 15,000 people in Harrisburg, 10,000 in Milwaukee, and more than 25,000 outside Union Station in Kansas City on Friday night is a far cry from the primary contender who denounced President Bush and decried all that Democrats believe has gone wrong in the Bush administration.
 Then, Mr. Kerry blasted Mr. Bush for ''the most arrogant, inept, reckless foreign policy in the modern history of our country.'' Now, he talks more about himself: ''I defended this country as a young man and I will defend it as president,'' he said in Kansas City.
 ''And I know that I can run a more effective, smarter, more productive war on terror that actually makes America safer,'' he said, ''and I will do it by bringing to our side the allies that we used to have which should have been with us in the first place, I'll take the target off American troops, I'll share the burden with other nations, and we're going to get our troops home where they belong.''
 Then, Mr. Kerry accused Mr. Bush of ''licensing a creed of greed'' in corporate America, and summed up his bill of particulars against Mr. Bush's economic policy by shouting, ''The one person in America who deserves to be laid off is George W. Bush.''
 Now, Mr. Kerry mainly omits the ad hominems and says he will be a ''champion for the middle class'' who will fight to restore ''fundamental fairness'' to the workplace. ''We're going to end this craziness of American workers actually having to reward and subsidize companies for taking jobs overseas,'' he said in Kansas City. ''That's over. That's done.''
 His new speech remains an unfinished product. Mr. Kerry, who took up a guitar and sat in with the band on ''Johnny B. Goode'' in Jefferson City, Mo., keeps trying out new rhetorical licks on the stump. A traveling speechwriter, Josh Gottheimer, can be seen at nearly every stop listening intently and taking notes. En route by bus to a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., Mr. Gottheimer could be heard, huddled with Mr. Kerry between two short interviews by local television crews, quietlydiscussing the speech.
 The sunny-side-up speechmaking clearly does not come easily to Mr. Kerry, and in St. Louis on Thursday he seemed to slip, rehashing a red-meat riff on Missouri's own John Ashcroft: ''There is nothing conservative about a certain attorney general from somewhere who silences the civil rights and civil liberties of Americans,'' he said.
 Still, Mr. Kerry constantly says now that he wants to ''build this country up'' and ''bring people together,'' and tries to sound inspirational by suggesting that as president he could push the frontiers of science by asking simply, ''What if?''
 More important, his message is now being delivered through a one-word frame: values. Mr. Kerry is thus taking on a phrase that Republicans have used as a cudgel against Democrats for a dozen years.
 ''Values spoken, without actions taken, are slogans, not values,'' Mr. Kerry said in Hannibal on Wednesday. ''Values are the choices we make, and I think it's time we started to demand of people in public life that you stop talking about family values, and you start valuing families.''
 Among the values Mr. Kerry is promoting is fiscal discipline, which he says he demonstrated in the Senate by supporting budget-balancing and deficit-reducing measures. In Beloit, Wis., he said that as president, he would avoid ''piling debt on our children's heads.''
 Another value he talks up, under the guise of fairness, is tax cuts for the middle class. ''You've heard the president run around talking about, 'Oh, they're going to raise your taxes,' right?'' he said in Beloit. ''Let me just put it to you as directly as I know how: Under our economic plan, 98 percent of Americans get a tax cut. Under our economic plan, 99 percent of American business gets a tax cut.''
 Fiscal discipline, though, can also cloak new spending for social programs, to hear Mr. Kerry talk. ''You want a tax cut?'' he said Friday night. ''I've got a tax cut. We've got to stop being content to spend $50,000 a year of your tax money to house a young person in prison for the rest of their life rather than invest $10,000 a year in Head Start, Early Start, early childhood education, after-school programs. Help these kids!''
 In the same way, Mr. Kerry is talking about guns in cattle country to serve a larger point about environmental conservation. ''You know, I'm a hunter and a fisherman,'' he said on a ranch in Smithville, Mo., on Friday. ''I've been a hunter since I was about 12 years old. I'm a gun owner. I believe in the Second Amendment. I know it matters out here in parts of the world. But we've got to have a habitat if we're going to hunt.''
 So, too, does Mr. Kerry's promise to wean the country from depending on Middle East oil appeal not only to environmentalists and S.U.V. owners pinched at the pump by soaring gas prices, but also to latter-day isolationists and others concerned about the nation's economic security.
 No wonder, then, that one of his best applause lines is on the improbable subject of developing alternative fuels and renewable energy sources. ''If we want our security to be in our hands, if we want our destiny to be controlled by America completely,'' Mr. Kerry said in Kansas City, ''we've got to have America have its ingenuity and creativity produce its energy -- not the Saudi royal family.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry greeted supporters on Friday in Kansas City, Mo. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); ABORTION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); MARRIAGE (54%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (54%); HISTORY (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (85%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (71%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (85%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



217 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: DIPLOMACY FAILS TO SLOW ADVANCE OF NUCLEAR ARMS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., Aug. 7 

 BODY:
American intelligence officials and outside nuclear experts have concluded that the Bush administration's diplomatic efforts with European and Asian allies have barely slowed the nuclear weapons programs in Iran and North Korea over the past year, and that both have made significant progress. 
 In a tacit acknowledgment that the diplomatic initiatives with European and Asian allies have failed to curtail the programs, senior administration and intelligence officials say they are seeking ways to step up unspecified covert actions intended, in the words of one official, ''to disrupt or delay as long as we can'' Iran's efforts to develop a nuclear weapon. 
 But other experts, including former Clinton administration officials, caution that while covert efforts have been tried in the past, both the Iranian and North Korean programs are increasingly self-sufficient, largely thanks to the aid they received from the network built by Abdul Qadeer Khan, the former leader of the Pakistani bomb program. ''It's a much harder thing to accomplish today,'' said one senior American intelligence official, ''than it would have been in the 90's.'' 
 Mr. Khan's sales have also complicated the Bush administration's efforts to disarm North Korea. A new assessment of the country has come in one of three classified reports commissioned by the Bush administration earlier this year from the American intelligence community. Circulated last month, the report concluded that nearly 20 months of toughened sanctions, including ending major energy aid, and several rounds of negotiations involving four of North Korea's neighbors have not slowed the North's efforts to develop plutonium weapons, and that a separate, parallel program to make weapons from highly enriched uranium was also moving forward, though more slowly.
 The desire to pursue a broader strategy against Iran's nuclear ambitions is driven in part, officials say, by increasingly strong private statements by Israeli officials that they will not tolerate the development of an Iranian nuclear weapon, and may be forced to consider military action similar to the attack against a nuclear reactor in Iraq two decades ago if Tehran is judged to be on the verge of deploying a weapon. (In contrast, North Korea's neighbors, especially South Korea and China, are seeking stability first, and disarmament as a longer-term goal, diplomats from the region say.) 
 ''The evidence suggests that Iran is trying to keep all of its options open,'' said Robert M. Gates, the director of central intelligence under President Bush's father, who recently headed a detailed study of Iran that was critical of what it called the administration's failure to engage the country. ''They are trying to stay just within their treaty obligations'' while producing highly enriched uranium, said Mr. Gates, who is now the president of Texas A&M University, ''and I think they can go with a weapon whenever they want to.''
 Mr. Gates and other outside experts were interviewed on the sidelines of a four-day conference on the challenges of nuclear terrorism and the spread of unconventional weapons held at the Aspen Institute last week. Separately over the past few weeks, five senior officials from the administration and Asian and European nations, all with varying access to the intelligence about the Iranian and North Korean programs, were interviewed about their status. Not surprisingly, their judgments about the progress the two countries have made were not always in accord.
 The new report on North Korea, which has circulated among senior American officials and has been described to The New York Times, appears to have been written far more cautiously than the National Intelligence Estimate that erroneously described advanced weapons programs in Iraq. It describes in detail vast gaps in American knowledge. For example, it acknowledges that the whereabouts of North Korea's stockpile of more than 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods has been a mystery since early 2003, but also concludes that the North has had plenty of time to reprocess the rods into enough fuel for six to eight additional weapons. Before then, North Korea was judged by the C.I.A. to have one or two weapons developed a decade ago.
 For its part, Iran has begun to assemble the necessary ingredients and perhaps the same crude, Chinese-origin bomb design that the Khan network sold to Libya -- and may be just a few years away, intelligence experts have said.
 Taken together, the intelligence conclusions pose both security and political challenges for President Bush, who is visiting here this weekend to attend a wedding and visit his parents at their seaside estate.
 Mr. Bush has said he will not ''tolerate'' either country becoming a nuclear power, ignoring, at least publicly, the near certainty that North Korea has already reached that status. But he has never defined that term, or set deadlines. He is already under attack by the Democratic presidential candidate, Senator John Kerry, for allowing both countries to move forward in their programs while the White House concentrated on the one member of what Mr. Bush has called the ''axis of evil,'' Iraq, that turned out to have virtually no evidence of a continuing nuclear program. 
 While the intelligence report on North Korea, which has also been described to some allies, was cautiously worded -- the product, said one official who has seen it, of ''a chastened intelligence community'' -- it makes it clear that North Korea now probably has enough weapons-grade plutonium to test a weapon in the future, which would allow it to demonstrate its capacity. While it retained raw nuclear material under a 1994 accord with the Clinton administration, that material was under close surveillance until the inspectors were thrown out on Dec. 31, 2002. 
 ''The conventional wisdom now is that they have completely reprocessed all of it,'' said Gary Samore, who headed nonproliferation efforts at the National Security Council under President Bill Clinton and has conducted a detailed assessment of North Korea for the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. ''They had a huge window of opportunity when we were invading Iraq, and they appear to have made maximum use of it.''
 He said many analysts in the intelligence agencies believed that a ''whiff'' of a nuclear byproduct detected by an American spy plane off the coast of North Korea last year was evidence that the reprocessing was under way. But others say the experiment was never successfully repeated. They say it is possible that North Korea ran into difficulty in the chemical process of converting spent fuel into bomb material. ''You can't assume a linear progression,'' said one senior American official.
 Mr. Bush has said little recently about the Iranian and North Korean nuclear programs, in sharp contrast to his regular recitations about the danger posed by Iraq in the period before the war last year. When he and his aides do speak about the problem in public, they still refer to progress, but mostly progress in getting other countries to put pressure on Iran and North Korea. 
 ''It's very frustrating,'' said one former official who left the Bush administration recently and believes that the administration has failed to draw clear ''red lines'' beyond which North Korea would not be allowed to expand its arsenal. The official noted that Mr. Bush and his aides had been talking as if North Korea and Iran would follow the model of Libya, which disarmed earlier this year in an effort to re-integrate its economy with the West. But, the official argued, Iran does not need to do that because it has robust trade with Europe, and North Korea still receives considerable aid from China. 
 In the past two weeks Iran announced that it was resuming the production of centrifuges needed to produce highly enriched uranium though it has said it is still ''suspending'' actual enrichment activities. While the United States has threatened to take the issue to the United Nations Security Council, it has yet to win support from many allies.
 North Korea has publicly rejected a new American initiative to allow international aid to flow gradually to the country in return for speedy disarmament and giving inspectors the right to examine any suspected site.
 Several of Mr. Bush's aides have said they expect little concrete progress before the presidential election. The Iranians appear to be betting that Mr. Kerry, if elected, would talk directly to their leaders. Mr. Kerry has also said he would engage in bilateral discussions with North Korea; Mr. Bush has insisted on multilateral talks.
 Meanwhile, Israel's concerns are creating a pressure of their own. ''They are doing what they can to delay the Iranian program and preparing military options,'' said one official who has dealt with the Israeli government on the issue, providing no details about what they might be. But it is unclear that the Israelis have the military reach to strike Iran's facilities. Moreover, American intelligence officials say, Iran learned from the Iraqi experience and has spread its facilities around the country, including in urban areas as a defense against such a strike. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ROBERT M GATES (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Abdul Qadeer (Dr) Khan

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (73%) Iran; Israel; North Korea; Pakistan; Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



218 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Polls Say Kerry. Futures Say Bush.

BYLINE: By Daniel Gross. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
IN the presidential campaign season, which is now unmercifully upon us, the worlds of politics, economics and the markets merge. Traders watch opinion polls for guidance on whether to buy or sell, pollsters track the markets for indications of the popular mood, and campaign managers await each new macroeconomic gleaning with the jangled impatience of 3-year-olds at a Wiggles concert.
 While most public opinion polls show the Democratic nominee, John Kerry, with a slim lead, some market and economic indicators are telling a different story. On two exchanges where investors trade contracts on political outcomes -- the Iowa Electronic Markets and Intrade, based in Dublin -- President Bush has a slight lead. And a venerable economic model that uses historical voting results and current economic data to predict presidential votes suggests that Mr. Bush will win by a large margin. 
 Intrade's 34,000 members can trade futures contracts on events, like which city will be the host of the 2012 Summer Olympics. Bush futures -- which pay $1 if President Bush wins the election and nothing if he loses -- were trading at 52.4 cents on Friday. That means traders believe Mr. Bush has a 52.4 percent chance of winning re-election. 
 Should anyone give credence to such exchanges? ''Our contracts have a much higher predictive value than any public opinion poll because people have to put their money where their mouth is,'' said Michael Knesevitch, director of communications and business strategy at Intrade, which was founded in 2001. ''We predicted all the primaries. We also had Edwards as being the vice presidential nominee back in May.''
 The Iowa market, housed at the University of Iowa, has been around since 1988 and makes somewhat less exuberant claims. A comparison of 596 opinion polls with Iowa's presidential futures prices at the time the polls were conducted shows that the futures prices were closer to the actual result 76 percent of the time, according to Thomas A. Rietz, an associate professor of finance at the University of Iowa and a director of the market. As of Friday, Iowa traders thought that Mr. Bush had a 52 percent probability of winning.
 There are reasons to be skeptical about these exchanges, though. The people who trade securities online look a lot more like the crowd at the ''21'' Club -- most of them affluent white men -- than the voter registration lists. Then there's the margin of error. On the day before the election, the Iowa market typically misgauges the vote share by about 1.37 percentage points, Mr. Rietz said. When the popular vote isn't that close -- in 1996 or 1992, for example -- that is no big deal.
 But in 2000, when the Iowa market projected that Mr. Bush would win a majority of the votes cast for Democrats and Republicans, that seemingly small margin meant the difference between a successful projection and a failed one. Besides, the two exchanges cannot even agree with each other on who will win the popular vote. Intrade's contract on that vote gives Mr. Bush a 46 percent chance of winning; Iowa Electronic Markets traders believe that he will win 51 percent of the two-party vote.
 Throw another economic model into the mix, and the picture becomes more confusing. For more than two decades, a Yale economist, Ray C. Fair, has been testing and refining a model that uses economic data and past results to project the winner of the two-party popular vote. ''The theory is that the economy causes people to vote the way they do,'' he said.
 Looking at results dating to 1916, Professor Fair has found that incumbents running for re-election have a head start, that Republican incumbents tend to do better than Democratic incumbents and that an incumbent fares better when his party has not controlled the White House for two terms or more. Thus, he said, ''Bush has the best possible incumbency situation that you could have.'' Plug in the variables on growth and inflation, and Professor Fair projects that President Bush will receive 57.48 percent of the two-party vote.
 PROFESSOR FAIR'S model has been remarkably accurate over the years, with an average error of only 2.4 percent. And in each of the last two elections, he has come within 1.3 percentage points of predicting the accurate vote total.
 Great news for President Bush, right? Not necessarily. Professor Fair says the model can misfire when the equation doesn't include significant economic factors that may influence the electorate. It lacks a variable for job creation, for example, which may be a sore spot among voters this year. 
 And the model turned in its worst performance when an incumbent named Bush was seeking re-election. In 1992, the model projected that President George H.W. Bush would win 51.7 percent of the two-party vote and retain the presidency. Instead, he received merely 46.5 percent of the two-party vote and lost.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Election Trading''Futures contracts on the Iowa Electronic Markets predict that President Bush will win the popular vote in November.Graph tracks 2004 U.S. Presidential Winner Takes All Market since June.(Source by The University of Iowa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); STATISTICS (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (53%); OLYMPICS (52%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (52%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Futures and Options Trading; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%) Iowa Electronic Markets

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Daniel Gross; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Ray C (Prof) Fair

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



219 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: A President's Leading Indicators

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Record of Recovery,'' by George P. Shultz (Op-Ed, Aug. 4):
 Assuming that a president's economic policies are directly responsible for observed changes in economic growth, let us take a charitable view and say that President Clinton deserves credit for having overseen an eight-year span of prosperity and that the two President Bushes deserve credit for having lifted the country out of recession. 
 But the charts with Mr. Shultz's article say little about the inequities underlying recovery. It should also be said that both Bush recoveries were achieved through war. 
 Before going to the polls, Americans should ask themselves whether they have benefited from the most recent recovery and whether it was worth the accompanying loss of life.

Alan B. Cohen
Boston, Aug. 4, 2004

The writer is a professor of health policy and management at Boston University.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (65%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



220 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: A President's Leading Indicators

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 George P. Shultz repeats the Republican mantra that George W. Bush inherited a recession and that his is a record of recovery. 
 As an academic and former government official, Mr. Shultz ought to know that the nonpartisan National Bureau of Economic Research concluded that the most recent recession began in March 2001 -- after, not before, President Bush took office. The bureau is the official arbiter of business cycles.
 He also ought to know that mainstream economists, including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Kathleen Utgoff, the commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, do not consider the household survey he cites to be a reliable indicator of employment.
 The ''prosperity'' Mr. Shultz alludes to is the worst recovery on record. We are still more than a million private-sector jobs short of where we were when the Bush recession began, and real weekly wages have declined since the official end of the recession nearly three years ago.
 To top it off, the Bush budget for this fiscal year 2004 includes the biggest deficit in history, $445 billion by the president's own admission. 
 President Clinton bequeathed prosperity. President Bush has squandered it.

Frank R. Lautenberg
U.S. Senator from New Jersey
Washington, Aug. 4, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



221 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE SWING STATES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Where Four Electoral Votes Could Loom Large Again

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM; Mark Glassman contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: PETERBOROUGH, N.H. 

 BODY:
If Senator John Kerry defeats President Bush in this state, where Democrats are badly outnumbered, it will be because of voters like David and Elizabeth Scattergood.
 The Scattergoods, who owned a security alarm business in this southwestern New Hampshire town and are now retired, are lifelong Republicans who voted for Mr. Bush four years ago. But they say that they simply cannot abide the war in Iraq and Mr. Bush's environmental policies, and that for the first time, they will vote in November for a Democrat for president.
 ''We're conservative people,'' said Mr. Scattergood, 82. ''We just don't like what's going on in this country.'' 
 ''We don't believe the war in Iraq was justified,'' he continued. ''And Bush is so anti-environment. He favored vehicles in the national parks that are known to create pollution. He's done everything for the oil industry. It's really sad for someone our age to see what's happening and to think about our grandchildren and what they're going to be faced with.'' 
 At last count, only about 175,000 of New Hampshire's registered voters, or 25 percent, were Democrats; 260,000 (38 percent) were independents, and 250,000 (36 percent) were Republicans. 
 But a statewide poll by the University of New Hampshire Survey Center, released the week before the Democratic National Convention last month, showed Mr. Kerry slightly ahead of Mr. Bush, 47 percent to 43 percent, though his lead was still within the margin of error. Another 4 percent favored Ralph Nader, and 6 percent were undecided.
 The race is so close that the months before the November election may be as lively here as the presidential primaries that put New Hampshire in the political spotlight every four years. Both campaigns say they plan to go all out here. 
 In 2000, Al Gore's presidential campaign wrote off New Hampshire early as a lost cause and devoted few resources here. The decision may have cost Mr. Gore the election. 
 Mr. Bush, whose campaign was much more active, defeated Mr. Gore by only 7,211 votes out of nearly 570,000 votes cast. 
 New Hampshire was the only East Coast state north of Virginia that Mr. Gore lost. If he had won here, the state's measly four electoral votes would have made him president. 
 ''New Hampshire is predominantly a Republican state,'' said Andrew E. Smith, director of the survey center. ''All our statewide offices are held by Republicans. The Senate and House are 75 percent Republican. But Republicans here are a different breed from those in Washington. They're what used to be called Rockefeller Republicans.''
 The social conservatism that dominates the party nationally is not much of a factor here. Polls show that a majority of registered Republicans favor a woman's right to abortion (as do the state's two House members, Charles Bass and Jeb Bradley, both Republicans). 
 The evangelical movement is small, and church attendance is among the lowest of any state.
 Hunting is popular here. But according to state-by-state statistics compiled by Congressional Quarterly, far more people here own boats than guns, an indication of why environmental protection is such an important political issue.
 Two in five Republicans here favor allowing same-sex marriages, the University of New Hampshire poll found. Nationally, only one in 10 Republicans takes this view, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. 
 The Scattergoods of Peterborough are not typical of the state's Republican voters. Much more representative is Rob Mumford, a chemist from Bedford, who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 and plans to do so again. 
 ''I'm mostly glad with what Bush is doing,'' Mr. Mumford said. ''But Kerry, and Democrats in general, I'd probably never vote for one.''
 In the last 20 years, however, the proportion of registered voters who list their party affiliation as ''undeclared,'' or independent, has grown to 38 percent from 27 percent. The University of New Hampshire poll showed Mr. Kerry ahead of Mr. Bush among these voters, 53 percent to 35 percent.
 Many moderate Republican politicians from an earlier era here are convinced that the new independents are essentially Republicans -- their kind of Republicans -- who are put off by the conservatism of the party in Washington. 
 ''They've gotten discouraged by the drift of the party to the right,'' said Walter Peterson, who was governor from 1969 to 1973.
 The Scattergoods, still registered as Republicans, are not as concerned as Mr. Peterson about where their party stands on social issues. For instance, they say abortions should be illegal in most circumstances, and they oppose same-sex marriage. The issues that turned them against Mr. Bush were the war and the environment.
 But Pixie Lown of Amherst, who was a Republican state representative in the 1980's, said abortion was the main issue that drove her from the party. When she left the 400-member House of Representatives, she registered first as an independent and later as a Democrat. At 72, she has become active in the abortion rights movement in New Hampshire. She plans to vote for Mr. Kerry.
 ''It's just hard for a moderate person nowadays to be a Republican,'' Ms. Lown said.
 While some of Mr. Bush's policies are unpopular here, his penchant for cutting taxes is a different matter, one that most voters and almost all Republicans seem to embrace. 
 This is the only state other than Alaska that has neither a sales tax nor an income tax on wages and salaries. Candidates for state office are invariably asked to take a pledge not to raise taxes, and few if any who have refused to do so have ever won an election.
 After three terms as a popular Democratic governor, during which she blocked with a veto threat legislation that would have imposed a state income tax, Jeanne Shaheen, now national chairwoman of Mr. Kerry's presidential campaign, stepped down in 2002. Craig Benson, a Republican, was elected in a landslide after his Democratic opponent, Mark Fernald, a state senator, advocated an income tax.
 Mr. Mumford, the chemist, expressed a common view here. ''Cutting taxes,'' he said, ''is always a good idea.''
 Low taxes have proved to be central to New Hampshire's fortunes. Since the 1960's, this has been the fastest-growing state in the Northeast; its population increased 83 percent from 1965 to 2000. The gritty textile and paper mills that had dominated the economy for a century gave way to high-tech businesses that moved in largely because of the low taxes. Today, Manchester, which with slightly more than 100,000 people is the state's largest town, is characterized more by granola than by grime.
 The Congressional Quarterly data reflect the state's affluence. New Hampshire has the lowest crime and poverty rates in the country and the highest scores on eighth-grade reading proficiency. Housing prices have been rising faster, and more households are connected to the Internet, than in almost any other state. The unemployment rate in June, 3.9 percent, was well below the national average of 5.6 percent.
 Probably because the state is doing so well, voters here are less likely than those nationally to list the economy and jobs as the most important issues facing the country. Only 25 percent did so in the University of New Hampshire poll, compared with 32 percent of the public in the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
 New Hampshire voters are much more likely than those nationally -- 42 percent, compared with 22 percent in the national survey -- to say war and terrorism are the most important issues.
 Four years ago, Mr. Gore never came here during the general election campaign. His television advertisements, and those run by others on his behalf, were only a small fraction of those by and for Mr. Bush. Only 12 percent of New Hampshire Republicans voted for Mr. Gore, surveys of voters leaving the polls showed.
 Mr. Kerry learned the lesson.
 ''People in New Hampshire have seen our ads -- and Bush's ads too, for that matter -- as much as viewers in any other state in the country,'' said Tad Devine, a Kerry strategist. ''That is quite substantial advertising for this juncture in a campaign.''
 Since January's primaries, more than $1 million apiece has been spent here on television commercials for Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry, significantly more than was spent in the entire general election campaign in 2000.
 The Kerry advertisements are aimed largely at the small proportion of voters who say they are still undecided -- mostly voters who tend to think of themselves as conservative, but not so conservative as Mr. Bush.
 One of these voters still on the fence is Tina O'Toole, a waitress from Bedford and a registered Republican. She said she was ''not happy with the war situation'' but liked what she saw as Mr. Bush's tough policies against terrorists. 
 Where she really thought the president was lagging, Ms. O'Toole said, and where she thought Mr. Kerry might come out ahead, was in helping people who need help. ''Taking care of American people, making sure everyone has insurance, that is something I believe in,'' she said.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture in some copies on Sunday with an article about the presidential campaign in New Hampshire was published in error. It showed David Scattergood of Peterborough, N.H., a Republican who said he did not plan to vote for President Bush. Later editions showed Mr. Bush greeting supporters in the state.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, campaigning in New Hampshire on Friday, greeted supporters at a picnic in Stratham. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)Chart: ''Facing Off in a Largely Republican State''While New Hampshire is a predominantly Republican state, the social conservatism seen elsewhere in the party is not as prevalent there, improving John Kerry's odds.HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares are sized according to the total number of votes cast and shaded by the winning candidate.Map of New Hampshire highlighting number of votes cast for Bush and Gore in each county.MARGIN OF VICTORYIn percentage points for past presidential elections.2000REPUBLICAN: 1 POINT WIN1996DEMOCRATIC: 101992DEMOCRATIC: 11988REPUBLICAN: 261984REPUBLICAN: 371980REPUBLICAN: 29NEW HAMPSHIRE'S ECONOMYGraphs compare New Hampshire to the rest of the United States in the following since 1999:Change in real household income versus year earlier.Unemployment rate change in median home price versus year earlier.Percentage without health insurance.ELECTED OFFICIALSGOVERNORREPUBLICAN: 1DEMOCRAT: 0SENATORSREPUBLICAN: 2DEMOCRAT: 0REPRESENTATIVESREPUBLICAN: 2DEMOCRAT: 0DEMOGRAPHICSWHITEN.H.: 95%U.S.: 69BLACKN.H.: 1%U.S.: 12HISPANICN.H.: 2%U.S.: 13ASIANN.H.: 1%U.S.: 465 OR OLDERN.H.: 12%U.S.: 12MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOMEN.H.: $53,549U.S.: 43,052(Sources by Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
 Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RALPH NADER (79%); AL GORE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



222 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2671 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Marine Takes Aim At a Republican

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
NOT long ago, Steve Brozak was a little-known Marine officer who had returned home to Westfield from a tour of duty in Iraq, disillusioned with President Bush's handling of the war there. 
 But late last month, Mr. Brozak -- an investment banker from this upscale community in Union County -- found himself in the national spotlight with a coveted prime-time speaking role at the Democratic National Convention in Boston. Personally, it marked an extraordinary milestone for the 43-year-old Mr. Brozak, a former lieutenant colonel who had been a registered Republican his entire adult life -- until about a year ago.
 Yet the turn of events that culminated in his unlikely celebrity at the Democratic Party's premier event are easy enough to explain, given the highly charged political atmosphere of this election season. 
 Mr. Brozak's deeply felt belief that the Bush administration has mishandled the war on terrorism and in Iraq, along with his very public break with the Republican Party, caught the attention of national Democratic leaders who have spent months trying to recruit candidates nationwide to help their party blunt the edge that Republicans have long enjoyed in the politically potent area of national defense.
 In that context, the Democrats tapped Mr. Brozak -- a social moderate and fiscal conservative -- to run against Representative Mike Ferguson, a two-term Republican who represents New Jersey's Seventh Congressional District in a race that has already drawn a disproportionate amount of national attention.
 ''If you told me 18 months ago that I would end up addressing the Democratic convention, I would have said you were crazy,'' Mr. Brozak told a hall packed with delegates. ''I have never considered myself a partisan person, but the Republican Party left me behind. And so I had no choice but to leave the Republican Party behind.''
 Leading Democrats in New Jersey and Washington say they see particular promise in the Brozak-Ferguson contest, contending that it is one of a handful of races around the nation that could play a major role in their battle to take back the House of Representatives this fall. For now, Republicans outnumber Democrats 228 to 206, with one independent.
 It is easy to see why Democrats are so emboldened.
 Moderate Republicans like Mr. Ferguson have found themselves in something of a political bind as many of the president's policies -- from his handling of the war in Iraq to his support for a Constitutional ban on gay marriage -- have proven unpopular in Democratic-leaning states like New Jersey.
 Democrats are eager to exploit this situation, trying to tie moderate Republicans like Mr. Ferguson to President Bush's agenda -- as well as to that of Representative Tom DeLay of Texas and other conservatives who control the House.
 The Democratic strategy is evident in the lines of attack employed by Mr. Brozak, who in a recent interview in Boston noted that Mr. Ferguson has voted with the House Republican leadership 92 percent of the time.
 ''He acts like he's a middle-of-the-road guy,'' Mr. Brozak said of his rival, just a few hours before taking the stage at the convention. ''But that's not the case. He doesn't talk about the things that the people of New Jersey care about. He's not an independent voice for the district or the state.''
 But Republicans strongly disagree with that characterization, noting that Mr. Ferguson -- who was voted into office along with President Bush in 2000 -- has done an effective job of establishing his independence and distancing himself from some of the more conservative social policies advanced by the president and House Republican leaders.

Ferguson Fights Back
 As for Mr. Ferguson, he scoffed at the charges that Democrats are lobbing at him and vigorously argued that he is his own man politically.
 ''I'm an independent thinker,'' the 33-year-old Mr. Ferguson said. ''When I think the president is wrong, when I think my Republican leadership is wrong, I don't hesitate to stand up to them and be an independent voice for New Jersey.''
 Political analysts in Washington are intrigued by the race shaping up, saying that there is more than election-year hype to Democratic claims that they have a shot of winning the seat, particularly in light of the uncertainty over the war in Iraq and an economy that is still struggling to recover lost jobs. But they concede that it will be an uphill battle for Democrats to dislodge Mr. Ferguson in a district that still tends to vote Republican despite the overall Democratic leanings of New Jersey.
 Stuart Rothenberg, a veteran nonpartisan analyst of congressional races who publishes a political newsletter, said he has included the Seventh Congressional District among the 44 seats that are in play this fall.
 Mr. Rothenberg said that at this point, the seat is leaning toward staying in Republican hands, although he acknowledged that the general election was nearly 100 days off and that much could happen between now and November to weaken Republican odds.
 ''Ferguson is vulnerable,'' Mr. Rothenberg said. ''But the race is not one of the Democrats' best opportunities, and Brozak has received more ink and more hype than he really deserves at this point.''
 New Jersey's Seventh Congressional District is largely made up of some of the state's wealthiest communities: Warren, Bedminster, Bridgewater and Summit, to name a few. Indeed, it has the highest median household income of the 13 congressional districts in the state, about $86,000 a year.
 Anyone who wanders through the heart of the district will find mammoth houses set far back from street on sprawling lots. The parking lots at the upscale shopping centers dotting the district are all packed with expensive S.U.V.'s and luxury cars from Mercedes-Benz and Acura to BMW.
 At this early stage, there is little evidence in downtowns throughout the district that there is a major battle taking shape for the local congressional seat. There are no signs for George W. Bush or John Kerry, much less Mr. Ferguson or Mr. Brozak.
 Democrats have been after Mr. Ferguson since he first won election in 2000, mindful that he eked out his victories in a district that voted overwhelmingly for Vice President Al Gore.
 In 2002, Democrats made a big play for the district, spending nearly a million dollars in an effort to elect Tim Carden, who had been commissioner of the state Department of Human Services. Then, as now, Democrats sought to cast Mr. Ferguson as staunchly conservative, a man who supported Mr. Bush and like-minded House leaders on policies that were out of step with the district's more moderate political sensibilities.
 But Mr. Ferguson had positioned himself in a way that helped insulate him against Democratic charges that he was unwilling to stand up to his party's dominant conservative wing. In one vote after another, he defied Mr. Bush, particularly on environmental and educational issues.
 For instance, he joined the former Representative Marge Roukema, a famously moderate Republican who represented a northern stretch of the state from Bergen to Warren County, in sending a letter to President Bush after the administration reversed itself on placing certain limits on carbon dioxide emissions from power plants.
 Mr. Ferguson also spoke out against the Bush administration's proposal to allow oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge -- as well as its decision to reconsider a Clinton-era policy that called for cutting the amount of naturally occurring arsenic in municipal drinking water.
 He also defied Republican congressional leaders in seeking full financing for special education programs. This was all the more remarkable because he had an unlikely ally: Representative Patrick J. Kennedy of Rhode Island, the former head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee who traveled to New Jersey in 2000 to campaign against Mr. Ferguson.
 In the end, Mr. Ferguson won a second term, defeating Mr. Carden 58 percent to 41 percent, leading his advisers to hope that he would help ward off future challenges.
 And for their part, Mr. Ferguson's advisers say he has good reason to be confident this time around as well. Even as Mr. Brozak attacks him as too conservative for an increasingly Democratic state like New Jersey, Mr. Ferguson's advisers say they have plenty of reason to believe that his challenger's complaints will fall largely on deaf ears in the Seventh District, where one Republican after another has had great success.
 For example, the former Representative Bob Franks received 59 percent of the vote in the district in the 2000 United States Senate race that he lost to Jon Corzine. And Douglas R. Forrester defeated Frank R. Lautenberg by 10 percent in the district in the 2002 Senate race, even though Mr. Lautenberg went on to beat him by the same margin statewide.
 Mr. Rothenberg, the political analyst, does not think this is election-year spin by the Ferguson camp. He pointed out that even Bret D. Schundler, a man Democrats successfully cast as a right-wing extremist in the gubernatorial race that he lost to James E. McGreevey in 2001, ran competitively in the Seventh District.
 ''Generally, Republicans do well in the district,'' he said. ''Bret Schundler almost won that district, and Bret Schundler is extremely conservative.''
 Nevertheless, Mr. Brozak is bent on making his opponent's support for conservative causes a central issue of the campaign -- noting that the congressman voted with the Republican leadership 92 percent of the time. In particular, Mr. Brozak and his campaign surrogates are taking aim at Mr. Ferguson's opposition to abortion, his opposition to embryonic stem-cell research and his support for a constitutional ban on gay marriage, to name a few issues.
 ''No one has ever held him accountable for his record,'' he said.

Brozak Relies on Record
 Mr. Brozak is also clearly hoping that his military background will give people another compelling reason to support him, particularly since polls show that many voters are uneasy about the way President Bush and his advisers are conducting the war in Iraq.
 Mr. Brozak, who served four years on active duty and then 18 years in the reserves, volunteered for service in Haiti, Bosnia and Kuwait and Iraq. He retired after serving as a military spokesman in Arlington, Va., as well as the Middle East during the troop buildup leading up to the latest war in Iraq.
 Mr. Brozak said he started growing disillusioned with the Republican Party during the 2000 primary season, when Senator John McCain -- who was vying with George W. Bush for the Republican presidential nomination -- suggested that leaders of the religious right might have been behind phone calls and e-mail messages to South Carolina voters accusing him of fathering illegitimate children and pointing out that he and his wife, Cindy, had adopted a dark-skinned daughter from Bangladesh. 
 He said he became even more upset that year when Republicans mounted a successful campaign against Max Cleland, a Democratic senator from Georgia who was seeking re-election. They questioned the patriotism of Mr. Cleland, who had lost both legs and an arm in the Vietnam War. ''It was vicious,'' he said. ''I said: 'This is no longer my party. It's been taken over by a small group with this win-at-any-cost mentality.'''
 Very much like the Democrat at the top of this year's ticket -- Senator John Kerry -- Mr. Brozak has used his military credentials as a base from which to attack the war as an ill-conceived adventure that is draining the federal treasury and undercutting the global fight against terrorism.
 The war was, in fact, a central theme of his speech.
 ''My friends, Iraq is filled with professional soldiers, patriotic reservists and Guard members who long for a mission that is planned and purposeful,'' he told the Democrats assembled at the FleetCenter in Boston. ''If you want to support our troops, if you want to help their families, if you want to build a nation that is the envy and not the enemy of the world, I ask you to join us tonight in this fight: Help make John Kerry the president of the United States.''
 Mr. Ferguson, for his part, has offered only qualified support for the job Mr. Bush has been doing as commander in chief.
 While he praises the president's efforts to fight terrorism -- by toppling the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, for example -- he has raised questions about how the war in Iraq is being handled.
 ''Americans and New Jerseyans are rightly concerned about the situation in Iraq,'' he said in an interview several days ago. ''I think the administration underestimated the strength of the resistance in the post-war planning.''

Republicans Are Gleeful
 Republicans close to Mr. Ferguson acknowledge that Mr. Brozak's biography is an impressive political asset. But at the same time, they are rubbing their hands with glee that Mr. Brozak's campaign appears to have many of the rough edges and built-in disadvantages that come with being a political novice.
 For one thing, Mr. Brozak has been struggling to raise money, though independent political analysts say he has managed to bring in enough cash to keep his campaign viable at this point. 
 Mr. Brozak had $204,743 on hand as of June 30, compared with about $420,000 that Mr. Ferguson's previous opponent had at the same point two years ago, according to campaign finance records. More than that, Mr. Ferguson has amassed an impressive $1,035,244 so far.
 Beyond that, Mr. Ferguson and his advisers say they are puzzled by Mr. Brozak's decision to criticize the Bush tax cuts, predicting that that stance will not play well among the well-off voters in the district.
 The Ferguson camp says that Mr. Brozak's position on taxes would make sense if he were in battle for his party's nomination and had to embrace positions that might appeal to liberal-leaning primary voters. But that is not the case.
 ''It's a big deal in New Jersey, but it's particularly a big deal in our district,'' Mr. Ferguson said, referring to the issue of tax cuts. ''My opponent has not missed an opportunity to say he would raise taxes. You'd think he was running in a Democratic primary trying to go as left as you can go.''
 But Mr. Brozak said that his Republican rival was distorting his position on taxes, and in defending himself he went so far as to say that he recently rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange and delivered a speech advocating the elimination of the capital gains tax for pharmaceutical companies engaged in research and development.
 As for the president's tax cuts, he said he would eliminate those benefiting corporations that are outsourcing jobs overseas. But he did not rule out eliminating other portions of the Bush tax cut, arguing that local governments have had to raise taxes to make up for reductions in aid from Washington.

'A Deficit Crisis'
 ''We have a deficit crisis,'' he said.
 Finally, Mr. Brozak's campaign style has drawn considerable attention among national pundits who were gathered in Boston with relatively little to actually write about. In a recent column in Roll Call, a weekly Washington newspaper, Mr. Rothenberg referred to Mr. Brozak's ''prickly personality and cockiness.''
 And that was mild compared with the ridicule heaped on him by The Weekly Standard, a tart conservative opinion journal. ''With his left arm rigidly stuck to his side, his right waves wildly in the close-fisted point that they teach you these days during the first lesson of Public Speaking 101,'' Jonathan V. Last wrote in a column after the candidate spoke at the convention. ''It's supposed to be a gesture that's strong, but not threatening. But in Brozak's hands, it's frightening and ludicrous and wildly entertaining. The train wreck goes on and on and on.''
 But Mr. Brozak dismissed the criticism as partisan sniping, saying he has received widespread praise for his speech. 
 ''I am appreciative of the fact that they are that concerned about me. That shows you how desperate they are getting.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Brozak, a former Marine from Westport who is running for Congress, addressing the Democratic National Convention. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 1)
Representative Michael Ferguson, left, talking to Sgt. Angelo Paolella of the Warren Township Police Department about equipment that was recently upgraded. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 Steve Brozak, above, who is running in the Seventh Congressional District, took advantage of a street fair in Summit to talk with voters. At the Democratic National Convention in Boston, below, he found his way to the press tent at the FleetCenter. (Photos by Norman Y. Lono, above, and Bengiveno Nicole, below, for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Map of New Jersey highlighting Congressional District 7. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); TERRORISM (53%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Elections; Biographical Information; Finances

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: MIKE FERGUSON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (85%) Raymond Hernandez; Steve Brozak; Mike (Rep) Ferguson

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



223 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Political Points; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1006 words

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY; Kristen A. Lee contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:

Nov. 2 Futures Traded Now
 SENATOR John Kerry's failure to get a bounce in the polls after the Democratic convention may have surprised the chattering classes, but not the people who let their money do the talking. 
 Political strategists and journalists generally described the convention as a success, especially Mr. Kerry's acceptance speech. The ABC political director, Mark Halperin, called it ''the best speech I've ever seen John Kerry deliver by a mile.'' On CBS, Dan Rather said Mr. Kerry ''seemed to clear the high bar.'' In this column we gave Mr. Kerry the award for most improved performance at the convention. 
 Meanwhile, though, traders in political futures were busy shifting their bets to Mr. Bush at two online markets, Intrade and the Iowa Electronic Markets, where tens of thousands of investors spend real money to buy futures contracts.
 The investors started out the summer bullish on Mr. Bush, typically paying about 55 cents for a futures contract that would pay $1 if he wins, which means they gave him a 55 percent chance of victory. 
 The price dropped after the selection of John Edwards as Mr. Kerry's running mate, and it fell further the week before the convention. When the delegates arrived in Boston, Mr. Kerry was the slight favorite on both Intrade and the Iowa market. But as the delegates cheered the speeches, the investors had second thoughts. 
 Before Mr. Kerry's speech Thursday, he was again the underdog, and after his speech the traders continued selling him short. Apparently some traders were underwhelmed by him and the other speakers; perhaps some traders took a look at the television ratings and decided the convention's impact would be less than they anticipated. 
 Whatever their calculations, the traders have a good collective track record, said Joyce Berg, the co-director of the Iowa market, which is run by the University of Iowa's business school. In the last four presidential elections, she said, the election-eve trading price has typically been within 1.5 percentage points of the actual result, which is about half a point more accurate than the average election-eve poll.
 And while polls often fluctuate wildly throughout a campaign, the market has tended to be more stable and reliable. Over the course of previous presidential campaigns, Ms. Berg said, about three-quarters of the time the market's daily closing price was a better predictor of the final result than the current polls were.
 Given that history, Mr. Bush has reason for slight optimism this weekend. On Friday, despite a day of bad news on the economy and Iraq, both online markets closed with him a 52 percent favorite to win in November.

The Politics Of Stem Cells
 A QUICK quiz: Next to John Kerry, which speaker at the convention kept the most political junkies in front of their television sets? 
 The answer seems to be Ron Reagan, at least if you go by the preliminary Nielsen ratings for the networks that covered the entire convention. About 10 million people watched his speech on stem cell research on PBS, CNN, Fox and MSNBC, more than for anyone except Mr. Kerry and the speaker who introduced him, Max Cleland.
 Perhaps the viewers were more interested in Mr. Reagan than in his topic, but activists involved in the issue say it has become unexpectedly important this election thanks to Mr. Reagan and his mother, Nancy Reagan, who has also spoken out against current federal policy. 
 Mrs. Reagan has found a large number of allies on Capitol Hill, including Senator Orrin G. Hatch and other conservatives who side with Mr. Bush on abortion issues but do not share his concern at the use of stem cells from embryos. 
 A coalition of scientific societies and other groups opposed to current federal policy is starting a national campaign to pressure political candidates starting tomorrow, the third anniversary of Mr. Bush's decision to put limits on federal money for research involving embryonic stem cells. The activists point to a recent Zogby poll, conducted for American Demographics magazine, in which a fifth of Bush supporters said they would defect if Mr. Kerry proposed a stem cell research initiative. 
 In a radio address Saturday, Mr. Kerry promised to end the current limits on stem cell research and said, ''We're going to listen to our scientists and stand up for science.'' The issue may resonate with voters attracted by promises of new treatments for diseases like Parkinson's, diabetes and Alzheimer's, but polling experts caution that the topic is so unfamiliar and complicated that it's impossible to gauge its political impact. 
 ''The poll results depend how you word the question, but there does seem to be general majority support for the research,'' said Karlyn Bowman, a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. ''You've got an aging population that's become more aware of the potential of the research, and strongly committed activists with a lot of friends in Washington, and there's the enormous amount of sympathy for the Reagans. But it's not clear how intense the support is and how that translates into votes on Election Day.''

Honor Roll Of the Week
 MOST Overexposed Crop: Corn. It was hard enough before the Iowa caucuses listening to months of speeches extolling the virtues of subsidizing ethanol made from Iowa corn. But last week the candidates' Iowa love affair continued as Mr. Kerry waved corn stalks out the window of his bus and Mr. Bush gobbled his corn on the cob raw.
 Kumbaya Prize, Runner-Up: Teresa Heinz Kerry, for telling an audience in Missouri, ''The only way you solve problems is by holding hands and talking about it. And that's what we want to do in this campaign.''
 Kumbaya Prize: John Kerry, who promised to fight not just a ''more proactive'' but also a ''more sensitive war on terror.'' 
 Malaprop Medal: President Bush, who unveiled a bold new strategy of pre-emption. ''Our enemies are innovative and resourceful, and so are we,'' he said. ''They never stop thinking about new ways to harm our country and our people, and neither do we.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage)Chart: ''Travels of the President''Some of President Bush's favored destinations, according to Mark Knoller, a White House correspondent for CBS News, who tracks the subject.REST AND RELAXATIONCamp David, Md.Number of visits: 83Number of full or partial days spent there: 262Ranch in Crawford, Tex.Number of visits: 36Number of full or partial days spent there: 250Family home in Kennebunkport, Me.Number of visits: 6Number of full or partial days spent there: 23MOST-VISITED STATESDoes not include Md., Va. or Tex.Pennsylvania: 31 visitsFlorida: 23Missouri: 20Michigan: 15Georgia/New York: 15 (tie)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



224 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; MINES TO MOUNTAINTOPS: Rewriting Coal Policy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3428 words

HEADLINE: Friends in the White House Come to Coal's Aid

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Claire Hoffman contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In 1997, as a top executive of a Utah mining company, David Lauriski proposed a measure that could allow some operators to let coal-dust levels rise substantially in mines. The plan went nowhere in the government.
 Last year, it found enthusiastic backing from one government official -- Mr. Lauriski himself. Now head of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, he revived the proposal despite objections by union officials and health experts that it could put miners at greater risk of black-lung disease. 
 The reintroduction of the coal dust measure came after the federal agency had abandoned a series of Clinton-era safety proposals favored by coal miners while embracing others favored by mine owners. 
 The agency's effort to rewrite coal regulations is part of a broader push by the Bush administration to help an industry that had been out of favor in Washington. As a candidate four years ago, Mr. Bush promised to expand energy supplies, in part by reviving coal's fortunes, particularly in Appalachia, where coal regions will also help decide how swing states like West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio vote this year.
 The president has also made good on a 2000 campaign pledge to ease environmental restrictions that industry officials said were threatening jobs in coal country. That promise led many West Virginia miners, who traditionally voted Democratic, to join coal operators in supporting Mr. Bush. It helped him win the state's five electoral votes, ultimately the margin of victory.
 Safety and environmental regulations often shift with control of the White House, but the Bush administration's approach to coal mining has been a particularly potent example of the blend of politics and policy.
 In addition to Mr. Lauriski, who spent 30 years in the coal industry, Mr. Bush tapped a handful of other industry executives and lobbyists to help oversee safety and environmental regulations.
 In all, the mine safety agency has rescinded more than a half-dozen proposals intended to make coal miners' jobs safer, including steps to limit miners' exposure to toxic chemicals. One rule pushed by the agency would make it easier for companies to use diesel generators underground, which miners say could increase the risk of fire.
 In an interview, Mr. Lauriski said that the proposals that were canceled were unnecessary. He said the agency had instead concentrated on other measures ''we believed were important to pursue.'' 
 He cited a revamping of evacuation procedures after an explosion killed 13 miners in Alabama in 2001, and requirements that workers be told about the presence and dangers of hazardous chemicals.
 Mr. Lauriski said the coal dust measure would improve miners' health by encouraging the use of equipment to limit how much dust miners breathe. 
 The Bush administration's efforts to change the rules have led to battles with labor unions and environmentalists. Congress and the courts have stepped in to temporarily block some of the initiatives, including the coal dust measure.
 ''They generally want to do whatever the industry wants,'' said Representative Frank Pallone Jr., a New Jersey Democrat and member of the House Resources Committee who has been a critic of the administration's regulation of the industry. ''You don't even have to change the law. You can change the regulations and don't do enforcement.''
 How any of these changes may affect the number of coal mining injuries and deaths is unclear. The rate of injuries has declined over the last 15 years. And a coal miner's odds of dying on the job are about the same as they were in the last years of the Clinton administration, government statistics show. The death tally, though, does not include black-lung disease, which still kills hundreds of miners every year.
 But union leaders and some former agency officials see a direct link between the death rate and one specific proposal that was shelved. Before leaving office, the Clinton administration proposed updating technology to better protect workers from the two-story-high trucks that haul coal. Since that proposal was withdrawn in 2001, 16 miners have been killed in hauling accidents above ground.
 The administration has also tried to make surface mining more economical by making it easier for coal companies to blast off the tops of mountains and dispose of rubble in valleys and streams. 
 Environmentalists say such ''mountaintop removal'' has destroyed some of Appalachia's beauty and polluted water supplies. They contend that Bush appointees have shifted the government's focus to expediting approvals of new mining permits from limiting the size of the mines.

The Case for Coal
 But White House and industry officials say there is a larger case to be made for coal, which fuels generators that produce half the nation's electricity. As natural gas prices have soared, it has become much cheaper to use coal. Although pollutants from coal are among the biggest contributors to acid rain and global warming, coal is also plentiful and secure, with domestic reserves that could last for 230 years.
 James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the White House's Council on Environmental Quality, said the changes in the mountaintop mining rules were ''all part of the broader effort to sustain coal as a critical part of the nation's energy mix, because it's affordable, it's reliable and it's domestically secure.'' Mr. Connaughton said the administration also was committed to improving environmental safeguards.
 Critics say, however, that the administration's support for coal shows how it has catered to industries that have contributed heavily to Republicans.
 ''This is a results-oriented administration,'' said Joseph M. Lovett, a lawyer for environmental groups that have sued to block the mountaintop mining rules. ''It knows who it wants to reward.''
 Over the last six years, coal companies have donated $9 million to federal political candidates and party organizations, and 90 percent has gone to Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
 Coal production has expanded in the West, but in most Appalachian states, where mining jobs are highly coveted, employment has stagnated or slipped since 2000. As a result, the battle over coal in crucial swing states is a wild card in this fall's election.
 Every month, on average, two or three coal miners die on the job. Some are electrocuted by high-voltage cables. Others are crushed when mine roofs collapse. Some, like William Birchfield and Rodney Sheets, die in accidents involving the huge trucks that carry coal.
 At dawn on Sept. 17, 2003, their van pulled near the front of one of the trucks at a mountaintop mine in Boone County, W.Va., to deliver supplies to the truck driver. According to federal investigators, the truck, sitting on 11-foot-tall wheels, had a blind spot extending 60 feet in front of its right side. As the truck moved ahead, a co-worker tried to stop it, shouting ''Whoa'' on the radio. But it was too late: the van was flattened.
 In 1998, the mine-safety administration reported that surface hauling accounted for 30 percent of fatal, above-ground mine accidents. The agency proposed improvements to restraint systems and lighting on hauling vehicles and to eliminate blind areas by requiring use of radar and video cameras.
 Union officials said that enhancements were needed because ''the size and speed of haulage equipment and the size of the mines have changed in the last decade with little or no changes in the regulations.''
 But mine owners and operators were opposed, saying the technology was unproven and costly. Mr. Lauriski, the new head of the mine safety administration, said he agreed with those concerns, and the proposal was killed in 2001.
 In the Boone County case, investigators said an operating video system likely would have averted the accident. That truck had cameras, but the monitor was off.
 J. Davitt McAteer, who proposed the rules as head of mine safety during the Clinton administration, said that if the idea had survived, ''I believe with strong conviction that a significant number of fatalities could have been avoided.''
 Mr. Lauriski said that it was ''pure speculation'' to suggest the proposal would have saved lives, adding that it had not reached the final stage of rulemaking when Mr. Clinton left office.
 He said the entire mining industry was experiencing fewer deaths and injuries.
 Over all, 30 people died in coal mining accidents last year, down from 42 in 2001, the highest number since 1995. But as a percentage of hours worked, on-the-job deaths have remained about the same over the last six years, government statistics show.
 Health and mining officials say they also continue to be concerned about deaths from black-lung disease. Workers contract the illness over a number of years as particles of coal dust lodge in their lungs.
 Experts including the federal National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health have long said that the allowable dust level should be cut in half -- from the current standard of no more than two milligrams for each cubic meter of air -- to reduce black-lung deaths.
 Mr. Lauriski's proposal allows for higher levels of coal dust when companies can prove to regulators that they cannot bring the levels down through ''feasible'' means, like ventilation or dust suppression. In those cases, miners would be required to wear helmets with built-in respirators to keep air at the two-milligram standard.
 Mr. Lauriski had sought the change in 1997 when he was the general manager at the Energy West Mining Company. The current proposal ''responds to Energy West's petition,'' according to the Federal Register.
 Joe Main, health and safety director for the United Mine Workers, said Mr. Lauriski's proposal was an ''outrageous conflict.'' But the Labor Department inspector general has rejected conflict-of-interest complaints. 
 Mr. Lauriski said critics had taken the proposal ''out of context,'' and he denied it would raise coal dust. It will improve miners' health by encouraging the use of the helmet respirators, he said. He added that the Clinton administration had also proposed its own measure that could allow more dust.
 Mr. McAteer, the agency's former head, said that measure applied to only a small fraction of the mines affected by Mr. Lauriski's plan and would have capped dust at far lower limits. The proposal died within a few months after union opposition.
 It was not until a boisterous public hearing on May 6, 2003, at a Holiday Inn in southwestern Pennsylvania that it became clear how high the dust levels could rise under Mr. Lauriski's proposal.
 There, under questioning from Mr. Main, a mine-safety administration official conceded that the proposal could allow dust to increase fourfold. ''It could go up to a maximum of eight milligrams,'' said the official, Bob Thaxton.
 Union officials say the proposal is a blatant effort to circumvent federal law, which requires more comprehensive controls to reduce dust and states that respirators ''shall not be substituted.'' They also say many miners would balk at wearing a helmet that encloses their face in a visor, with dust and sweat clouding their vision.
 Other critics include Dr. David Wegman, chairman of a federal panel that in 1996 unanimously recommended the government consider lowering dust levels. In a letter, he and two other panel members told the Bush administration they were ''appalled'' that it would consider letting coal dust levels rise so high. 
 Even the manufacturer of the helmets, the 3M Company, warned that the proposal had flaws, including the agency's acknowledgement that many miners would not always wear the helmets properly. ''This appears to be an abdication of the responsibilities delegated by Congress to M.S.H.A.,'' a 3M official said in a letter to the agency.
 Bruce Watzman, health and safety vice president for the National Mining Association, the industry's main lobbying group, said mine operators did not think of the helmets as an alternative to other measures. 
 For now, the rules have been delayed following opposition from lawmakers, including Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Representative Nick J. Rahall II, Democrat of West Virginia. Mr. Rahall said he worried that the industry would ultimately be successful in getting around dust limits. ''It's not the first time, and I don't envision it will be the last time,'' he said. ''They're always looking for a way to sneak it in.''
 On a rainy day in August 2000, with polls showing that he had a chance to carry West Virginia, Mr. Bush stopped in Charleston to rally support. Just before he left, he paused on the airport tarmac for a brief meeting that helped lay the seeds for the changes in environmental rules that favor the Appalachian coal industry.
 In a roped-off area behind the rental cars, Bill Raney, the president of the West Virginia Coal Association, an industry group, and Dick Kimbler, who headed a local chapter of the mine workers union, told Mr. Bush about layoffs at mountaintop mines. They said they also complained that a growing emphasis on environmental protection was delaying the approval of mining permits and eliminating jobs.
 Mr. Bush replied that the problems underscored the need to develop a national energy policy, the other men said. Less than two hours later, Donald L. Evans, then Mr. Bush's campaign chairman and now the commerce secretary, called Mr. Raney, who said they talked about making the permitting process less cumbersome.
 Mr. Raney and Mr. Kimbler then created the Balanced Energy Coalition, an industry group that persuaded many coal miners to back Mr. Bush. They also worked with the state's most prolific Republican fund-raiser, James H. Harless, a coal operator who collected $275,000 for Mr. Bush, five times what Mr. Gore raised in the entire state. 
 In embracing Mr. Bush, the industry officials were looking for help in countering a court ruling that had suddenly placed them on the defensive. 
 Throughout the 1980's and the 1990's, the open-pit mines had proliferated, leveling mountaintops and burying valleys under piles of rubble. Coal executives say this approach enables them to recover the smallest seams of coal and is more cost effective than underground mining.
 Although residents complained about the dust and noise, and damage to their homes from the explosions, federal and state officials have acknowledged that regulators typically rubber-stamped the permit applications.
 But in 1998, residents and environmentalists sued, arguing that many of the mines were illegal under laws protecting the nation's water supplies. The suit focused on how the debris was dumped into valleys, creating towering walls of earth and rock that covered streams and, in some cases, caused flooding from rainwater runoff. 
 In late 1999, Judge Charles H. Haden II of United States District Court in West Virginia, a conservative Republican, stunned the industry by ruling that companies could no longer bury streams under these massive structures, called ''valley fills.''
 While the industry appealed the ruling, the Clinton administration began holding back permits and started a sweeping environmental impact study that focused on limiting the size of the valley fills, and thus the size of the mines. 
 But after the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., nullified Judge Haden's order in April 2001, the Bush administration began to change the direction of its efforts. 
 Mr. Connaughton, the White House official, said that while the administration wanted to increase environmental protection, it also wanted to make sure the rules on mountaintop mines provided the ''clarity and certainty'' that companies needed for such huge investments. 
 But environmentalists were worried that some Bush appointees were too close to industry executives. They said they were particularly unnerved by the involvement of the deputy interior secretary, J. Steven Griles, who had been a lobbyist for mining interests before taking the department's No. 2 job.
 In October 2001, Mr. Griles wrote to other administration officials, emphasizing that the environmental impact study should focus on ''centralizing and streamlining coal mine permitting'' as well as ''minimizing or mitigating environmental impacts.'' 
 Mr. Griles and other officials met that November with Ken Mehlman, then the White House political director and now Mr. Bush's campaign manager, to talk about the study. Mr. Griles said in a recent interview that everyone agreed on the need to ''restore regulatory certainty so people will know what the rules of the game are.'' 
 The department's inspector general later investigated Mr. Griles's contacts with industry executives on several issues for possible conflicts of interest, but concluded that he had done nothing improper. Mr. Griles said he became involved with the impact study only because it seemed to be ''in disarray'' and needed coordination.

The Issues in Appalachia
 Over the last two and a half years, the administration has changed one environmental regulation and announced plans to weaken another. And when officials released a new draft of the impact statement in May 2003, environmentalists were outraged.
 The report found that 1,200 miles of streams had been buried or damaged over the past two decades. But the Bush administration dropped the Clinton effort to limit the size of the valley fills. Instead, it called for more coordination among state and federal agencies to simplify the permitting process and minimize environmental harm. 
 As a result, permits for mountaintop mines started flowing again last year, with 14 approved in West Virginia, up from just 3 in 2002. But just last month a court dealt a blow to the Bush administration's efforts, in a response to another suit by Mr. Lovett and other environmentalists.
 Judge Joseph R. Goodwin of United States District Court in West Virginia barred the Bush administration from using one of the main methods for expediting permit approvals that it had endorsed in the environmental review. The judge ordered the government to revoke the permits for 11 mines and to conduct more extensive environmental reviews before issuing any new permits. 
 ''This really does eviscerate the Bush administration's position,'' Mr. Lovett said. ''It means they will no longer be able to ignore how this practice is devastating our environment.'' 
 In the past several months, both Mr. Bush and his Democratic opponent, Senator John Kerry, have made frequent visits to West Virginia and other Appalachian states.
 They have talked about the Iraq war and personal values, topics likely to resonate with local residents, who tend to be socially conservative and include a relatively high percentage of military veterans. But neither candidate has tackled the mining issue head-on in recent visits.
 Mr. Kerry, who has long voted with labor unions and environmentalists, said last fall before he emerged as the Democratic front-runner, ''Where we see a beautiful mountaintop, George Bush sees a strip mine.'' He supports spending $10 billion to research and develop technologies for burning coal more cleanly, more than twice as much as Mr. Bush has proposed. 
 But other Democrats say Mr. Kerry has to be careful not to let the Republicans paint him as an environmental extremist, much as they did Al Gore in 2000.
 Mr. Bush has been cautious as well. Even with the growing demand for coal by utilities, the number of coal-mining jobs in West Virginia has slipped to 14,501 last year from 15,747 in 2000. And one recent poll suggested that 56 percent of the state's residents opposed mountaintop removal mining.
 For many residents of the coal fields, the most pressing issues are for the industry to do a better job of reclaiming the mined land.
 Mr. Connaughton said that the Bush administration had begun to insist that companies do more to reclaim the land, like planting forests and preparing for commercial development.
 The United Mine Workers have endorsed Mr. Kerry, but at the Hobet mine in Logan County, W.Va., it is unclear whom the workers favor. One miner, Bruce Linville, said that some of his fellow workers appreciated Mr. Bush's efforts to promote coal but that they had concerns about the Iraq war.
 On the other hand, Mr. Linville, who said he supported Mr. Kerry, said some miners were sticking with Mr. Bush because they were ''kind of afraid that Mr. Kerry could be too big of an environmentalist'' and restrict mountaintop mining. ''They see it as doom and gloom,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An explosion in 2001 in this Alabama coal mine left 13 miners dead. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A1)
A mountaintop mining operation in West Virginia. Debris is deposited in valleys. (Photo by Susan F. Lapis/Southwings)
 Two people died when the dump truck at left crushed a van. Investigators said the accident would likely have been averted if the truck's video system had been used. (Photo by United States Department of Labor)(pg. A11)(Drawing/Diagram by Alisa Nance/The New York Times)(pg. A11)Chart: ''Campaign Contributions''The employees and owners of coal mining companies have given millions dollars to political candidates, mostly to Republicans.Graph tracks contributions by the coal mining industry to both the Republicans and Democrats from 1990-2004.Top companies nationwideFor 2002 and 2004 election cyclesCOMPANY: 1. Peabody EnergyCONTRIBUTIONS: $1,438,011PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 95%COMPANY: 2. AEI ResourcesCONTRIBUTIONS: 532,750PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 94COMPANY: 3. Murray EnergyCONTRIBUTIONS: 450,125PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 96COMPANY: 4. DrummondCONTRIBUTIONS: 351,747PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 90COMPANY: 5. Arch CoalCONTRIBUTIONS: 298,884PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 86COMPANY: 6. BoichCONTRIBUTIONS: 211,900PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 96COMPANY: 7. AmvestCONTRIBUTIONS: 192,950PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 94COMPANY: 8. RAG American CoalCONTRIBUTIONS: 153,700PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 78COMPANY: 9. American EnergyCONTRIBUTIONS: 128,900PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 95COMPANY: 10. International IndustriesCONTRIBUTIONS: 120,700PERCENTAGE GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS: 99Note: Data includes contributions from political action committees, soft money donors and individuals giving $200 or more. It could also include donations from the organization's P.A.C., its individual employees or owners, and those individuals' immediate families. Data is for two-year election cycles.(Source by Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. A11)Chart/Diagram: ''Mining Mountains''How mountaintop mining is done and its effects on the environment:THE PROCESS1. Trees are clear-cut, and explosives are used to loosen the rock and topsoil.2. Huge shovels dig into the topsoil, and trucks start hauling it away.3. A dragline digs into the rock to expose the coal.4. The draglines and 250-ton trucks dump the topsoil and rock into areas called valley fills.5. Coal companies are supposed to reclaim land, but native trees have trouble growing on disturbed topsoil.Giant earthmoversIn the last decade, the scope and scale of mountaintop mining has escalated with dragline use. These machines can weigh up to 8 million pounds and stand as tall as a 20-story building. In an 8-hour shift, a dragline operator can move enough soil for 40 million houseplants.Diagram highlights the aformentioned process.ADVERSE EFFECTSDestruction of forests When large areas of forests are clear-cut, wildlife habitats are destroyed. Wildlife and plantlife become more vulnerable to predatorial species.Destruction of streamsIn recent years, valley fills have buried or damaged 1,200 miles of streams.BlastingExplosions can cause damage to home foundations and wells.FloodingThe destruction of natural streams by valley fills and the loss of vegetation can cause flooding.(Sources by Arch Coal Inc., West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection, Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition, Natural Resources Defense Council)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (92%); COAL MINING (91%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MINE WORKERS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); POLITICS (88%); BLACK LUNG DISEASE (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (64%); LITIGATION (60%) Coal; Surveys and Series; Mines and Mining; Industrial and Occupational Hazards; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2000; Coal; Organized Labor; Elections; Finances; Suits and Litigation; Coal

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (84%); MINE SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%) Mine Safety and Health Administration; Center for Responsive Politics (Orgn)

PERSON: Christopher Drew; Richard A Jr Oppel; George W (Pres) Bush; David D (Asst Sec) Lauriski

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



225 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Faster Web connections permit retailers to add editorial features that can make their sites 'stickier.'

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
IF it is taking longer to shop online, there is a reason: stickiness, the notion of gluing customers to sites with product information like consumer reviews and stories, is back. 
 Stickiness was heralded during the dot-com boom, and ridiculed during the bust. But now a confluence of technological and consumer trends is prompting e-commerce executives to again think of their online stores as multimedia shopping extravaganzas.
 The trend could be seen as yet another byproduct of high-speed Internet access, which is affording online users the luxury of clicking onto pages they might have avoided in their slow-motion surfing days. And like most Internet business trends, this one is being played out against a backdrop of fiscal restraint not always seen in the smoke-and-mirrors Internet economy. 
 Take Vegas.com, which sells airline tickets, hotel rooms and other travel products to Las Vegas visitors. The site's president, Howard Lefkowitz, who took the job in 2001, was reviewing employee expense reports when he happened upon an invoice for $3,000 -- half for alcohol expenses, half for cash outlays.
 The employee, it turns out, was the site's strip club reviewer. ''I said, 'We pay a guy, and we liquor him up and line his pockets with 20's to review strip clubs?''' Mr. Lefkowitz recalls telling a manager. ''Not anymore we don't.''
 His objections were financial, not moral. Vegas.com still offers strip club reviews, but Mr. Lefkowitz said he arranges free entry for his new reviewer, Dan Hippler, whose job duties also include data analysis. ''He brings a bottle of water to the clubs, and if he does use 20's, they're his own,'' Mr. Lefkowitz said. ''But that's information I frankly don't want to know.''
 Mr. Lefkowitz said the Web site's editorial team had tripled, to 10 to 12 people, as the site built more informational features around its travel products. This fall, Mr. Lefkowitz said, the company intends to introduce, in partnership with Nextel Communications, a feature called the Nextel Business Center, an online concierge service of sorts, that will give travelers lists of activities near Las Vegas hotels. He said the site had in the past year created editorial sections devoted to bachelors, couples, families and others groups.
 ''And we'll continue to expand,'' he said. ''But there's a fine line. If people are reading too much, they're not buying stuff.''
 Vegas.com has walked that line well, Mr. Lefkowitz said, by ensuring that most of the editorial features are relevant to a transaction. He would not disclose the site's sales, but he said that since 2001, the number of visitors who purchased a product had increased thirtyfold.
 ''That's not just because of our content,'' Mr. Lefkowitz said. ''But it's a piece.''
 It is not surprising that travel sites would be at the vanguard of the stickiness revival, given that travel tales focusing on a certain destination are critical to inspiring travelers. And since travel sites also occupy by far the most lucrative niche of the e-commerce realm, the biggest sites can afford to invest in features that smaller e-tailers cannot.
 InterActiveCorp's Expedia, for example, recently introduced a redesigned Web site with more editorial features, like virtual tours, which offer visitors panoramic views of hotel rooms, beaches and such. Users can direct the view aspect with the mouse.
 ''We've always seen content as very important, but recently we've taken it to the next level,'' said Stuart MacDonald, a senior vice president at Expedia. ''For a lot of people, the trip almost starts when they start to plan. To the extent we can make that easier and more fun, it's good for business.''
 Mr. MacDonald would not disclose specifics about the cost or benefits of the company's editorial expansion. ''It's a significant investment but the reason we do it is that we get the return,'' he said.
 As for why Expedia and others have chosen to expand their editorial offerings now, Mr. MacDonald said, ''Broadband is absolutely a part of it.'' Broadband, meaning a high-speed Internet connection, he said, encourages more Web browsing. ''But people's expectations have also increased.''
 Indeed, as more media sites experiment with video clips, customers could be looking for the same from commerce sites. That is partly why Expedia recently began testing a feature that allows users to view live video from SeaWorld. ''This is a first step for us,'' Mr. MacDonald said. ''We'll see what the future holds.''
 Editorial content is one leg of the so-called three C's theory of Internet business success that pervaded the dot-com boom. Alongside content and commerce, sites were also encouraged to add ''community'' features, for users who liked to interact with other consumers via chat rooms, message boards or customer reviews.
 Elaine Rubin, chairwoman of the e-tailing trade group Shop.org and a senior vice president at 1-800-Flowers.com, said: ''Over the last six to nine months, I've seen a resurgence of interest in how to do community. Not message boards or chat rooms, but new ways to get consumers helping others.'' Apple Computer, on its iTunes music site, offers consumers a way to offer their music mixes publicly, for example, while eBags puts gold medal icons next to items that receive the highest customer ratings.
 Ms. Rubin said the interest was still somewhat isolated to ''more mature online companies that have established themselves, and are now looking more toward how to differentiate themselves.''
 ''And,'' she added, ''the idea with community is that people who post things to the site will come back more frequently because they're more engaged. They've left a piece of themselves behind.''
 More companies are following Amazon's longstanding user-review feature, Ms. Rubin said. She cited iTunes, Backcountry.com and eBags among other online sellers who have honed their user-feedback features in recent months.
 1-800-Flowers.com has also introduced community elements to its site, by introducing a section of the Web site this spring called ''Expressions Exchange,'' which allows users to browse through a library of phrases and sentences to place on gift cards. The messages are posted not by staff writers, but by site visitors, who also rate the quality of the writing on a scale of 1 to 5.
 Ms. Rubin said it was too early to judge the feature's success, but she said 50,000 customers each month, about 10 percent of purchasers, reach the end of a purchase and click on a link for help composing a gift message. ''So it's another dimension of how we can build value for customers,'' she said.
 And although her company's investment has not been small, Ms. Rubin said it was considerably smaller than it would have been in the 1990's, when technologies for managing a Web site's content cost $500,000 to $1 million to set up, compared to $20,000 today.
 But just because companies can offer such features, does not mean all of them should, said Patti Freeman Evans, an analyst with Jupiter Research, an online consulting firm. ''We're having a lot of the conversations we had in early 2000, where everyone's thinking of all the wonderful things we could do,'' she said.
 But Ms. Freeman said that according to a recent Jupiter survey of Internet shoppers, only about 20 percent of so-called intense shoppers considered customer-generated reviews valuable. Fewer than 10 percent of more casual shoppers regarded such reviews as valuable.
 ''I'd thought it'd be higher,'' Ms. Freeman Evans said. ''So if I were thinking about community-type features, I'd spend my money on fabulous product search and a couple of extra pictures, before anything else.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Lefkowitz of Vegas.com expanded the company's Web site with more editorial features, but he also trimmed expenses. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (87%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Vegas.com

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



226 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Admit We Have A Problem

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT; William Safire is on vacation.. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I suppose there are people who still believe that enormous tax cuts for the very wealthy will lead to the creation of millions of good jobs for working people. In the twilight of his first term, the president, stumping for votes in regions scarred by the demon of unemployment, continues to sing from the tattered pages of his economic hymnbook:
 ''The economy is strong,'' he says again and again and again, ''and it's growing stronger.''
 At a riverfront rally under cloudy skies in Davenport, Iowa, last week, Mr. Bush told a crowd of 5,000, ''We are turning the corner and we're not going back.'' 
 In another four years, he says, ''The economy will be better.''
 His tax cuts, he insists, couldn't have been better timed.
 The true believers were jolted Friday by the news from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that employers added a meager 32,000 jobs in July. In an economy the size of America's, that's roughly equivalent to no jobs at all.
 July's poor job-creation performance was widely described as unexpected. But it's important to keep in mind that it didn't occur in a vacuum and that there is no quick fix coming. American workers are hurting. 
 ''The weak job market continues to put downward pressure on wage growth,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. He noted that nominal wage growth on a year-over-year basis has been decelerating even as inflation is increasing, which is bad news for an economy so dependent upon consumer spending.
 In a report released by the institute on Friday, Mr. Bernstein wrote, ''These job and wage dynamics erode workers' buying power, and this has negative implications for the strength of the recovery.''
 Retail sales in July were disappointing, hampered by high gasoline prices as well as anemic wage growth. And the stock market is in a prolonged swoon.
 Despite the rosy rhetoric that comes nonstop from the administration, millions upon millions of American families, including many that consider themselves solidly in the middle class, are in deep economic trouble. Friday's Wall Street Journal featured a page-one article with the ominous headline: ''New Group Swells Bankruptcy Court: The Middle-Aged.''
 Personal bankruptcy filings in the U.S. are at an all-time high. The Journal story focused on ''an emerging class of middle-age, white-collar Americans who make the grim odyssey from comfortable circumstances to going broke.'' Among the villains of this disturbing piece are the unstable job market and staggering amounts of personal debt.
 It's getting harder and harder to close our eyes to the growing economic devastation. Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard law professor and co-author of ''The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Mothers and Fathers Are Going Broke,'' wrote in 2003:
 ''This year, more people will end up bankrupt than will suffer a heart attack. More adults will file for bankruptcy than will be diagnosed with cancer. More people will file for bankruptcy than will graduate from college. And, in an era when traditionalists decry the demise of the institution of marriage, Americans will file more petitions for bankruptcy than for divorce.''
 The Century Foundation, in a recent study, addressed the problem of outstanding debt. For many families borrowing has morphed from a tool that, used judiciously, can enhance their standard of living into a nightmare that threatens to destroy their economic viability.
 ''Debt burdens,'' the study said, ''are at record levels because families have been stretched to the limit in recent years. With more income going to housing and other rising expenses related to medical care, education, vehicles, child care, and so forth, families are relying on credit as a way to meet everyday needs. Remarkably, a family with two earners today actually has less discretionary income, after fixed costs like medical insurance and mortgage payments are accounted for, than did a family with only one breadwinner in the 1970's.''
 There is no plan from the administration that I've heard of to brighten this bleak picture of the American economic landscape. John Kerry and John Edwards have an opportunity in the presidential campaign to offer their prescriptions. The first essential step for anyone serious about a search for solutions would be to recognize and acknowledge the sheer enormity of the problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (56%) Bob Herbert; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



227 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Robert Herman, 85, Rent Official

 BODY:
Robert E. Herman, a former state rent administrator of New York, died on July 28 at Hartford Hospital. A former resident of Great Neck, N.Y., he was 85 and lived in Boynton Beach, Fla., and Lee, Mass. 
 The cause was cancer, his family said.
 A lawyer by training, Mr. Herman was installed as rent administrator in 1960 by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. The office, in the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal, helps write rent-control legislation and administers it for dwellings outside New York City.
 Mr. Herman held the office through the Rockefeller and Carey administrations, retiring in 1983, when Mario M. Cuomo was governor. Since then, he has been a consultant to the Westchester Apartment Owners Advisory Council and special counsel to the Building and Realty Institute of Westchester.
 A Manhattan native, he graduated from New York University in 1938 and from Columbia Law School in 1941, when he enlisted in the Army Signal Corps. He later was attached to the Office of Strategic Services.
 After the war, he worked in the New York bureau of the federal Office of Price Administration and helped develop rent-control guidelines passed on to the state level when federal price controls ended. New York State, in turn, relinquished its responsibility for rent controls within New York City in 1962.
 Mr. Herman is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Doris Berkley; two daughters, Kathy Smiley of West Hartford, Conn., and Patricia McAnally of Glenmoore, Pa.; a son, Jeffrey, of Stockbridge, Mass.; and 11 grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Herman in 1960. (Photo by Eddie Hausner/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); ARMIES (86%); GOVERNORS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); CANCER (57%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



228 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: The Iraq Reconstruction Fiasco

 BODY:
Things have gone so obviously wrong with America's approach to rebuilding Iraq that even the Bush administration is now willing to listen to some informed advice. Before the invasion, the White House and Pentagon contemptuously ignored post-invasion planning memos drafted by State Department experts knowledgeable about Iraq, the Arab world and the broader problems of nation-building. Now some of those same State Department experts are quietly being called back to try to repair the damage. Their re-emergence is welcome, but late in the game. Winning back the good will and trust of ordinary Iraqis will be, at best, an uphill fight. 
 Almost a year after Congress approved an American contribution of more than $18 billion to rebuild Iraq, very little of this money has been spent. Very little has actually been built in Iraq, and most of what has been done has been paid for out of Iraq's own revenues. This is more than an embarrassing case of dysfunctional aid management and shifty accounting. It helps explain why so many Iraqis have come to resent the American occupation even though it removed a hated dictator and ended 13 years of punishing economic sanctions. Even people who initially welcomed the invasion have had a hard time understanding or accepting why, 16 months after American troops took Baghdad, electricity and clean water are only intermittently available and nearly half of employable Iraqis are without work. 
 Of the $18.4 billion Congress approved last fall, only about $600 million has actually been paid out. Billions more have been designated for giant projects still in the planning stage. Part of the blame rests with the Pentagon's planning failures and the occupation authority's reluctance to consult qualified Iraqis. Instead, the administration brought in American defense contractors who had little clue about what was most urgently needed or how to handle the unfamiliar and highly insecure climate.
 Occupation officials also felt free to tap into Iraqi revenues, which are subject to far less oversight and looser controls than Congressionally appropriated funds. Late last year, for example, the Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg, Brown & Root was awarded a no-bid contract out of Iraqi revenues. At the time, Congress might have balked at further dealings with a company facing questions about the inflated prices it charged for importing gasoline into Iraq and about a no-bid contract awarded by the Army Corps of Engineers just before the invasion. Last week, The Washington Post reported that almost $2 billion in Iraqi revenues had been awarded to American companies.
 State Department experts now suggest a switch to smaller-scale projects that can produce visible results more quickly. They are also talking about deeper Iraqi involvement in the planning and carrying out of American-financed reconstruction projects. Greater Iraqi involvement would spread public awareness of these projects, provide new jobs for Iraqis and drastically reduce costs. Iraqi construction labor costs about one-tenth of what is typically paid to foreign contractors. Closer consultation with the Baghdad ministries and local councils would also add some plausibility to Washington's claims that Iraqis now exercise sovereignty in their own country. Despite all it has gone through, Iraq remains one of the Arab world's most advanced societies, with considerable professional expertise that should be put to better use.
 All of this should have been done a year ago. It still needs to be done now. Iraq's reconstruction needs have only become more urgent and most of that huge appropriation is still unspent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); BUDGETS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (63%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%) Editorials; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances

COMPANY: KBR INC (52%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: State Department

TICKER: KBR (NYSE) (52%); WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (52%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%) Iraq; Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



229 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Water, and Competing Rural Interests, Everywhere; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Striving to Protect the Watershed, the City Assumes the Role of Country Land Baron

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Want to grow hay, log trees or tap maple syrup?
 Could be New York City is the place to start.
 Far from its skyscrapers and subways, the city has begun leasing hundreds of acres of farmland and forests around its drinking water reservoirs in the Catskills and the Hudson Valley for traditional rural uses. City officials are even considering marketing a line of maple candies, with the label ''made in the New York City watershed.''
 To promote the expanded usage, the city's Department of Environmental Protection, which oversees activities in the vast watershed, has dispatched its employees to town hall meetings and country fairs around the state. Last week, for instance, they set up a booth at the Ulster County Fair in New Paltz, handing out refrigerator magnets with scenic vistas of the reservoirs and fly swatters emblazoned with the D.E.P. logo. 
 New York City has been forced to assume the role of country squire at a time when it is rapidly becoming one of the largest landowners in upstate New York. It owns more than 103,000 acres of prime undeveloped land in the watershed, roughly half the size of the entire city. Of that, 58,639 acres were purchased since 1997, as part of a landmark agreement with the federal and state governments and the upstate communities. 
 Under that agreement, the city was able to avoid building a $6 billion filtration plant by agreeing to a host of water-quality initiatives, including upgrading sewage treatment plants and spending up to $250 million to buy land around the reservoirs to serve as buffer zones. (in all, $134.4 million has been spent so far.) Local communities, in turn, pledged to avoid large-scale development in exchange for recreational use of the lands and various forms of economic assistance from the city.
 ''This is one of the great social experiments in American history,'' said Christopher O. Ward, the city's environmental commissioner, who makes a point of trekking out to the region several times a month. ''It's linking an urban need for water quality with rural development.''
 Mr. Ward said the city's efforts to work with the upstate communities have progressed well beyond the original agreement. In response to requests from farmers, the city has leased 210 acres for hay fields in Delaware and Greene Counties, and 875 acres for logging and other forestry projects in those counties as well as in Ulster and Sullivan. Last winter, there were 2,650 taps from maple trees on city-owned property in Delaware, Sullivan and Schoharie Counties.
 Next month, the environmental department will sponsor a series of five hearings around the state on proposed rule changes intended to increase public access to its watershed lands. The department has issued more than 77,000 permits in the past three years for fishing, hiking, hunting and other approved recreational pastimes in the watershed. 
 Even so, the city's latest efforts have met with suspicion and outright hostility in many of the towns and villages that flank its upstate reservoirs. Some residents complain that the city, under the guise of friendship and assistance, has actually overstepped its authority and interfered with local development issues by imposing a permit system and other restrictions on lands that were once freely used.
 ''We'll have two or three months where upstate and downstate communities get along just fine, and then we'll hit a bump in the road and we're at each other's throats,'' said Alan Rosa, executive director of the Catskill Watershed Corporation, a private group that provides water protection and economic development programs. ''The '97 agreement was a shotgun marriage, so it's pretty much a shotgun relationship.''
 Things have grown particularly touchy, city officials and others say, because of a looming battle over a proposed luxury golf resort in the Catskills near the city's watershed. Backed by a well-known upstate developer, Dean Gitter, the $250 million complex near Belleayre Mountain has won support among local officials and residents eager to bring more revenue and jobs to the region. But its potential impact on the watershed has also stirred vigorous opposition among environmentalists and city officials.
 New York City's water system was pieced together in the early 1900's after state lawmakers authorized the city to purchase and, in some cases, appropriate upstate lands that were flooded to create a network of 19 reservoirs. It now supplies drinking water to nine million residents in New York City and surrounding areas.
 For most of that time, the reservoirs and their adjacent lands were largely kept off-limits to communities, except for some restricted recreational fishing and boating. But a cornerstone of the 1997 agreement was that as the city acquired more lands for the watershed, it would allow increased activities on them.
 Robert Cross Jr., the supervisor of the town of Shandaken, which has a population of just over 3,000, said that most of the city-owned property in his part of the Catskills remains unavailable for recreation -- a major problem for a town that relies heavily on tourism. ''We're waiting to see what the city's going to do to make things better,'' he said.
 City officials say that they have made it a priority to open more land for recreation, and to allow agriculture and forestry leases as a way to help the local economies. The environmental department shifted its staff and resources to manage its ever-growing land holdings. It has 45 full-time inspectors focusing on land management issues based in field offices throughout the region. It is distributing a newsletter, called ''Watershed Recreation,'' listing information about group hikes, cleanups and other events.
 And, for the first time, the department is proposing to allow people to use certain areas in the city's watershed, such as parking lots and scenic overlooks, without a permit as part of a series of changes that could take effect as early as October.
 ''It may seem as if the city is taking on additional responsibility by becoming land stewards in the watershed,'' said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that monitors the water system. ''But this is a crucial piece for protecting the city's single largest capital asset -- the reservoirs that provide drinking water to half of the state's population.''
 Still, many critics have countered that the city's efforts simply do not go far enough to help struggling towns and villages. While the city paid more than $83 million in local property taxes last year and provided millions more in other economic assistance, many upstate residents say they could reap far more benefits if the land were developed.
 In the case of the Belleayre golf resort, some residents have objected to what they see as the city's aligning itself with environmental advocates against the project, which is being reviewed by the state. ''We've seen little opportunity for a dialogue about the project, and that's the most frustrating part,'' said Daniel A. Ruzow, a lawyer who represents Mr. Gitter's development group, Crossroads Ventures.
 Mr. Ward said that while the city remains committed to economic development in the upstate communities, it has a responsibility to ensure that it takes place in an environmentally sensitive manner. 
 Declaring New York City to be ''a positive force and neighbor for upstate communities,'' he said city officials plan to expand farming, forestry and recreation opportunities on city lands, but are still working out the best way to do it. 
 ''The D.E.P., like any private landowner,'' he said, ''needs to understand who is on their property and what they're doing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Croton Reservoir, where Dean Meret of Putnam Valley was fishing, is part of the watershed system where officials are expanding recreational use. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Sue McBride of New Paltz gathered information on land usage and acquisition at the Ulster County Fair, where officials maintained a booth. (Photo by Tara Engberg for The New York Times)
 The number of small boats scattered along the shoreline of the Kensico Reservoir indicates the location's popularity among sportsmen who use the watershed. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HIKING (89%); HAY FARMING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); WATER QUALITY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); CONFECTIONERY (71%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%) Water; Agriculture; Maple Syrup and Sugar; Logging Industry; Walking; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport; Water

PERSON: Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



230 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Patents; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: The earliest U.S. patents went up in smoke. But a few are still being recovered, even 168 years after the fire.

BYLINE: By Sabra Chartrand

 BODY:
THE X-patents are out there -- it just takes a little faith and a lot of persistence to find them. 
 The Patent and Trademark Office has issued nearly seven million patents; the first 10,000 are known as the X-patents. They were issued from July 1790, when the United States patent system was created under an order signed by George Washington, to July 1836, when every one of them burned in a fire. Virtually every patent is available to the public on paper, microfiche, CD-ROM and the Internet -- except the X-patents. 
 In the 168 years since the fire, only about 2,800 have been recovered. Over time, the appearance of missing X-patents grew fewer and farther between, so that now no one at the patent agency, which does not have an official historian, can remember the last time it happened. 
 Until this spring, that is, when two lawyers with a passion for patent history uncovered a clue to several important patents from the 1790's -- including one from 1826 for the first internal combustion engine. Following the trail to Dartmouth College, they discovered inventor copies of 14 patents that had been written off as lost forever.
 ''We found them by accident,'' said Scott J. Asmus, a partner in the law firm of Maine & Asmus in Nashua, N.H., who found the documents with an associate, Andrew P. Cernota.
 When they told the Patent and Trademark Office what they had found, the agency was immediately interested in adding the documents to its archives.
 ''This isn't something that happens all the time,'' Brigid Quinn, chief spokeswoman for the agency, said. ''Our information service people, who keep track of this, were pretty excited.''
 In its first 46 years of existence, the Patent Office, as it was known then, issued the first patent received by a woman, and the first by an African-American. But all its records were lost when a fire gutted the building where the patents were being stored temporarily while a more modern, fireproof headquarters was under construction. There was a fire station right next door, but it was December, and in the frigid early morning hours the volunteer firefighters discovered their leather hoses were cracked and a pump did not work.
 No copies of the patent descriptions and drawings were kept anywhere else, and only a copy of the official patent certificate was sent to the inventor. Patents were not numbered then; they were referred to only by name and issue date.
 When the fire destroyed the originals, most of the patents seemed lost forever. Congress immediately passed a law allowing the patents to be reissued, and an effort was made to piece together the lost files. When the Patent Office began issuing patents again, it numbered them. Thus, Patent 1 was issued in 1837. As the patents lost in the fire were restored, they also were assigned sequential numbers starting with 1, and an ''X'' was added to distinguish them from the post-1836 patents. Some were recovered out of order, and when that happened, the recovered patent was given a fraction number, like Patent 127.5, to keep the patents in the proper sequence.
 Reconstituting the patents is difficult because, in many cases, the patent office cannot even name the inventors. 
 ''They lost everything in the fire and didn't know quite where to start,'' Ms. Quinn said. ''There weren't any other copies. Even finding out who the inventors were was difficult when all the records here were destroyed.''
 Mr. Asmus and Mr. Cernota were researching Samuel Morey, who holds the first patents issued to a New Hampshire resident. Ms. Quinn describes him as the inventor ''who arguably discovered the first internal combustion engine.'' Their search took them to Dartmouth's library. 
 ''Somewhere along the way, we saw a reference to Dartmouth College library,'' Mr. Asmus said. ''We were looking for Morey's patent on the patent Web site and couldn't find it. Then we saw something written about the patent in a handbook from the 1960's, and went to the library.''
 He and Mr. Cernota found references to Mr. Morey's papers in Dartmouth's online directory. They asked to see the documents, and knew they were real when they saw them, Mr. Asmus said. The two men found 14 lost patents at the library, 10 of which belonged to Morey. Apparently, his descendants donated the patents -- among them, one for an automatic spit roaster -- to the university sometime in the 1960's.
 ''We confirmed they were originals. They had big gold stickers and red stickers with wax on them,'' he said. Some of Mr. Morey's earliest patents were signed by George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, Mr. Asmus said. ''Those people signed all the patents then. They didn't have the volume they have today.'' 
 The Patent and Trademark Office knows of some missing patents that belong to historical archives and academic institutions. Mr. Asmus said the same trail that led to Mr. Morey's patents has led him to about a half-dozen other lost patents in university and private collections.
 ''As we found the first set of patents in an old college, we figured that there might be similar patents in the other old colleges,'' Mr. Asmus said. ''Sure enough, you can do an online search of the college library holdings and we identified at least a few others that describe 'letter patent' original prints'' and were located in special collections sections.
 Mr. Asmus is keen to recover the patents because he sees early American inventors as more than pioneers in their fields.
 ''As patent attorneys, technology is our bread and butter,'' he said. ''These older patents represent a renaissance in engineering from the mid-1800's onward. An enormous amount of intellectual property and wealth was developed in that period. By 1850, the internal combustion engine existed that is still in use today.
 ''If you look back, technology today is standing on the shoulders of giants,'' he said. ''We should recognize the contributions of those people. They did fascinating things with primitive instruments. Nowadays we just take existing technology and revamp it.''
 But Mr. Asmus's enthusiasm notwithstanding, Jim Davie, a patent examiner for 32 years and an agency history buff, said that the agency lost interest in filling the gap in its early records over the years.
 ''I thought it would be of at least historical interest to restore some of the lost patents to the P.T.O. records,'' said Mr. Davie, who is now retired, in an e-mail discussion of the X-patents. ''Let's just say that I found such a lack of enthusiasm for restoration of lost patents that I did not deem it worthwhile to pursue. I have information, files, contacts, etc., that would probably lead us to be able to recover perhaps a couple dozen lost patents.'' 
 Ms. Quinn said the patent agency was ''proud of its collection of nearly seven million patents, representing not only advancements in science and technology since 1790, but also the history of the American economy from its agrarian roots through today's information age.
 ''We are extremely interested in fully documenting this history,'' she added. ''If Mr. Davie has any information that would help fill the gaps, we welcome it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Asmus, left, and Andrew Cernota, who recently unearthed some long-lost patents of the inventor Samuel Morey, with a replica of his internal combustion engine. (Photo by Robert LaPree for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (94%); FIRES (90%); HISTORY (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); LAWYERS (69%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (64%); VOLUNTEERS (63%) Inventions and Patents; Biographical Information

COMPANY: MAINE & ASMUS (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (93%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%) Patent and Trademark Office

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: Scott J Asmus; Andrew P Cernota; Sabra Chartrand

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (54%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



231 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Just The Jobs Lost, But the Pay In the New Ones

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
The stunningly slow pace of job creation, which sank to growth of just 32,000 in July, has provided new ammunition in an intense political debate over job quality. 
 For months, Democrats have said that the long-delayed employment recovery was concentrated in low-wage jobs that paid far less than those that were lost. White House officials replied that the available data failed to settle the matter one way or the other.
 The data is still inconclusive. But the weakness in job creation and the apparent weakness in high-paying jobs may be opposite sides of a coin. Companies still seem cautious, relying on temporary workers and anxious about rising health care costs associated with full-time workers. Many economists say that over the long term, the most vulnerable positions are those at the low end of the wage scale that require fewer skills and are easily replicated. 
 Even now, at a time when a disproportionate number of new jobs appear to be lower-paying ones, there has been growth in some high-income occupations like accounting, architecture and software.
 Yet the earnings gap between the highest-paid employees and the rest of the work force is still widening, as it has over most of the last 30 years. The trend is most striking in factories, which accounted for the bulk of job losses in the last three years and tended to pay above-average wages. 
 In contrast to previous recoveries, when companies rehired a large proportion of laid-off workers, manufacturers have added only 91,000 jobs this year, having eliminated more than two million jobs in the previous three years.
 The largely permanent decline in manufacturing employment, which has been more acute after this recession than in previous ones, spans all levels from blue-collar workers through senior management. It has coincided with a bulge in the number of jobs in low-paying fields that are comparatively easy to enter: retail sales, hotel services and clerical work.
 The ragged pattern of the recovery has given rise to the political debate, with Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, saying that new jobs pay, on average, $9,000 a year less than the jobs that were lost.
 White House officials disagree, saying that such calculations are based on an erroneous comparison of median wages between industries that are expanding and contracting. The main error, they say, is that even low-wage industries like retailers and fast-food chains hire high-income executives and managers. 
 ''McDonald's has C.E.O.'s and accountants, and investment banks hire janitors,'' said N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers. ''Simply knowing what broad categories are rising and falling doesn't tell you anything about the jobs people are getting.''
 But a growing number of analysts say the evidence increasingly suggests that the current recovery has indeed been tilted toward lower-paying jobs. Industries ranked in the bottom fifth for wages and salaries have added 477,000 jobs since January, while industries in the top fifth for wages had no increase at all, according to an analysis of Labor Department payroll data by Economy.com, an economic research firm. 
 ''Since employment peaked, we've lost many more higher-paying jobs than lower-paying jobs,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. ''In recovery, we've created more lower-paying jobs than higher-paying jobs.'' 
 Though acknowledging that the payroll data was inconclusive, Mr. Zandi said that the pattern had become firmer over the last month and that it was increasingly similar to what had been found in the Labor Department's household survey, which categorizes work by occupation as well as industry.
 But many economists say the long-term pattern, and problem, are quite different. 
 Daniel Aaronson, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said the pattern of high-paying and low-paying jobs routinely fluctuates with economic cycles. ''When aggregate employment growth is strong,'' Mr. Aaronson said, ''you see more jobs created in higher-income sectors, and when employment growth is weak, the number of those jobs just tanks. We shouldn't be concerned about short-term wiggles in the data, but on the bigger issues of increasing productivity and increasing worker education.''
 Other economists say the more enduring pattern is the widening gap between people with different levels of education.
 ''You want to think of two job markets -- roughly speaking, one for college graduates and the other for high school graduates,'' said Frank Levy, professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an author of a new book on the subject, ''The New Division of Labor.'' 
 ''The market for college-grad jobs over the last four years has been expanding,'' Professor Levy said. ''But the market for high school graduates has been deteriorating, with production and clerical jobs shrinking and being replaced by lower-paying service sector jobs.''
 Other analysts say the long-term trend is more complicated, noting that real wages for middle-income workers have been losing ground to those in the top 10 percent of earners over most of the last 30 years. 
 The problem confronting President Bush is that job creation of all kinds has been slower in this recovery than in other ones, and White House officials acknowledged they were disappointed by Friday's report. 
 Employment finally seemed to surge in March and the economy added just over a million jobs in the first six months of the year. But the nation still has about 1.2 million fewer jobs than when Mr. Bush took office, and the work force has expanded by more than a million since that time. 
 Adjusted for inflation, average hourly wages have fallen slightly in the last year. And for many who have lost their jobs as a result of plant closings and layoffs, the impact has been more acute: a recent survey of displaced workers by the Labor Department found that 57 percent of those who had found work were earning less than they did in their old jobs. As of December, when the survey was taken, 4 of 10 displaced factory workers had yet to start a new job. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the number of new low-income jobs compared with high-income jobs misstated figures from an analysis of Labor Department payroll data conducted by Economy.com, an economic research firm. Since January, industries ranked in the bottom fifth in terms of median wages have generated 177,000 jobs, not 477,000. Industries in the top fifth generated 135,000 jobs, not zero. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (71%); RETAILERS (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); RETAIL SALES (61%); FAST FOOD (60%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (54%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Election Issues; Elections; Labor

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



232 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Rice Says Iran Must Not Be Allowed to Develop Nuclear Arms

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., Aug. 8 

 BODY:
President Bush's national security adviser said Sunday that the United States and its allies ''cannot allow the Iranians to develop a nuclear weapon'' and warned that President Bush would ''look at all the tools that are available to him'' to stop Iran's program.
 Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, said on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press'' that she expected that the International Atomic Energy Agency would make what she called ''a very strong statement'' in September forcing Iran to choose between isolation or the abandonment of its nuclear weapons efforts. But she stopped short of saying whether the United States could muster its allies to impose sanctions against Iran in the United Nations Security Council. 
 Until now, European powers and Russia have resisted American efforts to impose sanctions against Iran, which they see as a major trading partner. 
 Iran has insisted that its nuclear effort is entirely for the production of electric power, though the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations' nuclear monitoring agency, has found evidence of covert efforts, stretching back more than 18 years, to produce highly enriched uranium suitable primarily for weapons production.
 A week ago, Iran's foreign minister, Kamal Kharrazi, said his country would resume producing parts for centrifuges, the equipment needed to enrich uranium, because European nations had not brought the Atomic Energy Agency's investigations to a close.
 President Bush, who took a brief break from his re-election campaign to attend a family wedding here and visit his parents, said nothing in public on Sunday. He attended an early-morning church service, went fishing with members of his family and flew back to Washington, letting his aides take the questions about Iraq, terrorism, Iran and North Korea. 
 Ms. Rice was responding to an article in The New York Times on Sunday that said the Bush administration's flurry of diplomatic efforts during the past 20 months to stop the progress of nuclear weapons programs in Iran and North Korea had so far failed.
 In a veiled reference to the Clinton administration, Ms. Rice said ''these are problems that developed in 1990's.'' She contended that there had been ''diplomatic successes'' in organizing North Korea's neighbors to confront the problem and spurring action against Iran at the Vienna-based Atomic Energy Agency.
 ''It was, in fact, the president who really put this on the agenda in his State of the Union address, the famous 'axis of evil' address,'' Ms. Rice said. ''And our allies have really begun to respond.''
 She declined to say whether the United States would support action by Israel, which says Iran's program poses a particular threat to its national security, to attack Iran's facilities the way it attacked the Osirak reactor in Iraq in 1981. 
 ''I think that I don't want to get into hypotheticals on this,'' Ms. Rice said. ''I do think that there are very active efforts under way, for instance, to undermine the ability of the Iranians under the cover of civilian nuclear cooperation to get the components that would help them for nuclear weapons developments.''
 She said Russia had declared that it would provide help to Iran only if it returned its nuclear fuel to Russia so it could not be diverted for weapons. ''I think you cannot allow the Iranians to develop a nuclear weapon,'' she said. ''The international community has got to find a way to come together and to make certain that that does not happen.'' 
 Ms. Rice's answer about Israel was particularly notable because, in the period before the war in Iraq, she and other senior administration officials said history had vindicated the Israeli raid on Osirak. Had that attack not crippled Iraq's main nuclear reactor, they argued, Saddam Hussein might have had access to nuclear weapons before the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
 But it is unclear that Israel has the military capacity to reach Iran's nuclear sites, which are much farther away and well hidden among cities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); DISARMAMENT (74%); CENTRIFUGES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); TERRORISM (62%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations; International Atomic Energy Agency

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%) David E Sanger; Condoleezza Rice; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



233 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Arabs on the Verge of Democracy

BYLINE: By Danielle Pletka. 
Danielle Pletka is vice president of foreign and defense policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Early last month, John Kerry devoted 11 days to fleshing out his foreign policy priorities. Promoting democracy in the Middle East, he made clear, will not be high on his agenda. Sadly, Mr. Kerry's decision could not have come at a worse moment. For the first time in half a century, democracy is the talk of the Arab world. 
 Mr. Kerry has not been specific about many of his goals, but one thing he's gone out of his way to advertise is his distaste for pushing reform at the expense of ''stability'' in the Middle East. Sure, he's in favor of democracy in principle, but not as the centerpiece of his foreign policy agenda. ''Realism,'' in the fashion of Metternich and Kissinger, is his guiding light, Mr. Kerry told The New Yorker. 
 In this respect, Mr. Kerry echoes President George H.W. Bush and even his own father, Richard Kerry, a diplomat who once criticized the Reagan administration's ''fatal error of seeing U.S. security as dependent on illusions of propagating democracy'' in the Soviet bloc.
 Such ''realism,'' of course, was anything but. It failed to appreciate the real forces and opportunities at work in the world. The same is true today. The initial reviews of the current President Bush's push for reform in the Middle East may have been harsh, especially from the region's entrenched powers. Yet in the last few months, the debate, once confined to emigre papers published in London or Paris, has suddenly bubbled up onto the pages of the state-controlled press in the Arab world. 
 And what about the argument that democracy can't be ''imposed'' from the outside? That counsel of despair was knocked out of the park by the Palestinian scholar Daoud Kuttab, who wrote in the London-based Arabic daily Al Hayat that ''Arab democrats have failed to reach their goals through their own efforts'' and should welcome support from outside ''irrespective of the messenger.'' Naguib Mahfouz, the Egyptian Nobel laureate, went even further in Al Ahram, Egypt's main daily newspaper, warning that postponing reform would be ''playing with fire.''
 Mr. Kerry and his surrogates, meanwhile, worry about change that comes ''too quickly'' and breeds ''violence and repression,'' in the words of an old Kerry hand from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Jonathan Winer. 
 Arab democrats and their supporters abroad, however, might respond that the Arab world is hardly short of violence and repression as things now stand, and change that comes too slowly might prove the biggest danger. Indeed, the fruits of ''stability'' are hard to find in the latest Arab Human Development Report issued by the United Nations Development Program. It describes the Arab Middle East and North Africa as the least politically free region of the world. It also describes a region where 65 million adults are illiterate, almost two-thirds of them women, and where one in five citizens lives on less than $2 a day.
 At the same time, Arabs are increasingly exposed to the world through the electronic media, and likely to become more angry and frustrated about their degraded status in a globalizing world economy. You don't have to strain to see such forces at play in the blind rage of Islamic radicals, or to suspect that continued ''stability'' of the sort that has held the region's politics and economies in stagnation for the last 40 years will only make matters worse.
 In theory, the Broader Middle East and North Africa Initiative rolled out by President Bush at the Group of 8 summit meeting in June is aimed at addressing the roots of terrorism in the Middle East. In fact, the initiative has amounted to little more than a tepid cheer for Arab democracy, and the Bush administration has been less aggressive in following through on its modest proposals than many hoped. If American support for democracy is going to amount to anything, there's a lot more work to be done, especially among the skeptics inside the United States Foreign Service. And if Mr. Bush can't rally his own troops to the cause, he's unlikely to continue making headway overseas. 
 But make no mistake, he has made headway. Notwithstanding the administration's modest approach, democracy is now at the center of debate in Arab capitals. And while some in the United States continue to insist that Arab democracy is the fantasy of a discredited cabal in Washington, an effort to avoid what they assert should be America's only priority -- resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- Arab intellectuals don't necessarily agree. The director of Egypt's Al Ahram center for Political and Strategic Studies, Abdel Monem Said, took the issue on himself. ''Making reform and human rights contingent upon resolving the Palestinian problem,'' he said, ''confirms what the American neo-cons are saying, that the political regimes harming human rights are using the Palestinian problem in order to divert glances from their own behavior.''
 It's not 1989 in the Middle East, and a series of velvet revolutions aren't on tap for the immediate future. But the intellectual firepower that underlies any such revolution is growing; the region is in the throes of genuine pro-democratic ferment. And governments have taken note, admittedly in their own half-hearted fashion. The Arab League has embraced a series of self-serving reforms; the Saudis have announced plans for municipal elections starting in November; and the Bahrainis and Qataris are making real changes to their political systems. 
 Ferment is not change, but Mr. Kerry and his advisers may be kidding themselves that an incipient upheaval can be turned off just by Washington whistling another tune. More likely, without change, the United States will face one collapsing dictatorship after another and an instability much greater and more threatening than any that would come from an aggressive American push for democracy. Mr. Kerry would be wiser to try to see the world as it is -- and realize that hoping the United States can impose an unchanging ''stability'' on the Arab world may be the greatest unrealism of all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%) Danielle Pletka; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (71%) Middle East; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004



234 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Resolutions by Exchanges Of (Ooof! Kapow!) Ideas

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
J. David Brimmer and Christopher G. Roberts probably didn't expect their names to turn up in the first sentence of this review, but without ever setting foot on the stage they do some of the best work in ''Blue Collar,'' a pair of Israel Horovitz plays offered by the Barefoot Theater Company. Whether this is a good thing depends on how you like your theater.
 Mr. Brimmer and Mr. Roberts are the fight choreographers for, respectively, ''Sins of the Mother'' and ''North Shore Fish,'' two Horovitz plays about working men and women whose jobs are disappearing. Each play features a donnybrook, and the choreographers send their game actors crashing around the small 78th Street Theater Lab with a gusto that borders on frightening. 
 Yet plays that can resolve themselves only with a burst of fisticuffs often feel simplistic, and that pitfall is not entirely avoided in these works, which run through Aug. 22. Both stories are set in Gloucester, Mass., a place often under Mr. Horovitz's microscope. It is a city that has more problems than Stephen King's fictional Castle Rock, at least as served up by Mr. Horovitz, and unemployment may be the least of them.
 The first work on the bill, an excerpt of ''North Shore Fish,'' seems especially overstuffed with woe, perhaps because Barefoot's version is a truncation of a longer play first seen in 1986. A group of women working at a frozen-fish processing plant are trying to make the best of the drudgery, but when news comes that the plant is closing, all sorts of animosity and anguish surface, most of it involving the foreman, Sal (Gil Ron). Birth, death, sex and more are crammed into this eventful day; it's too much to be credible.
 Much more successful is ''Sins of the Mother,'' a new play in which Mr. Horovitz gives some lovely, witty dialogue to four men who have gathered at a shuttered fish-processing plant. Three are old friends, one a stranger, and Mr. Horovitz deftly trickles out the details of why they are there and how they are connected. 
 Francisco Solorzano, T.S. Joseph, Luca Pierucci and Gabe Fazio play it beautifully, and Mr. Horovitz sets himself up perfectly for some kind of subtle ending. Instead, though, he goes again for thrash and bash. Great if you like that sort of thing; a little unfulfilling if you don't.

BLUE COLLAR
The New York premiere of ''Sins of the Mother'' and an excerpt from ''North Shore Fish'' by Israel Horovitz. ''Sins'' directed by William Balzac; ''North'' directed by Francisco Solorzano. Sets and sound by John Beverly; lighting by Heekyung Ann; original music by Barry F. Wyner; costumes by Victoria Malvagno and Aldina Malvagno; light board operator, Sarah K. Conyers; fight choreography, ''Sins'' by J. David Brimmer, and ''North'' by Christopher G. Roberts. Presented by Barefoot Theater Company, Mr. Solorzano, artisic director; Ms. Malvagno, managing director. At the 78th Street Theater Lab, 236 West 78th Street, third floor, Manhattan.

WITH: Sabrina C. Catundella, AnaMaria Correa, Gabe Fazio, Nancy Harkins, Lisa Hickman, T.S. Joseph, Kendra Leigh Landon, Victoria Malvagno, Dolores McDougal, Luca Pierucci, Gil Ron, Francisco Solorzano and Chris Whalen.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Francisco Solorzano in ''Blue Collar,'' a program of two works by Israel Horovitz presented by the Barefoot Theater Company at the 78th Street Theater Lab. (Photo by Publicity Outfitters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (76%); WOMEN (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); FROZEN FOODS (70%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Barefoot Theater Co

PERSON: Neil Genzlinger; Israel Horovitz; William Balzac; Francisco Solorzano

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



235 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Crucial Unpaid Internships Increasingly Separate the Haves From the Have-Nots

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
Susan Lim, a 20-year-old Georgetown University student, is working 89 hours a week this summer: two part-time jobs and an unpaid internship offered through the Public Policy and International Affairs Program. 
 Her schedule -- working for money as a clerical assistant and a summer school resident adviser and without pay as a researcher at the public policy program -- is a sharp contrast to that of her Georgetown classmates. Many of them have parents who support them through unpaid summer internships, or they have qualified for paid internships because of experience as unpaid interns during high school. 
 ''I have to do the same things they do plus more to get to the same place,'' said Ms. Lim, whose mother and father each work two jobs, including running a Laundromat, to support a household of 14 people. But Ms. Lim says she has no choice on performing her summer juggling act, which includes taking a class at Georgetown, where she is studying at the School of Foreign Service. She believes she needs an internship to be competitive with her peers. ''If you go and apply for a job and/or apply for graduate school and all you have are grades, the next person has the same grades or better and has done other things,'' she said. 
 The focus on internships as a tool for professional success has never been greater, according to Mark Oldman, co-author of ''The Internship Bible'' and co-founder of Vault Inc., a career counseling company. About 80 percent of graduating college seniors now have done a paid or unpaid internship, according to surveys by Vault, compared with about 60 percent a decade ago. 
 ''The interest in internships is at a fever pitch,'' Mr. Oldman said. ''It used to be that internships used to be a useful enhancement to one's resume. Now it's universally perceived as an essential stepping stone to career success.'' 
 But as internships rise in importance as critical milestones along the path to success, questions are emerging about whether they are creating a class system that discriminates against students from less affluent families who have to turn down unpaid internships to earn money for college expenses.
 ''It's something that really makes me nuts,'' said Cokie Roberts, an ABC News correspondent who spoke out about the problem on Capitol Hill several weeks ago at a gathering of Congressional interns. ''By setting up unpaid internship programs, it seems to me that without completely recognizing it, it sets up a system where you are making it ever more difficult for people who don't have economic advantages to catch up.'' 
 Dalton Conley, a sociology professor at New York University who has studied how people get ahead, said: ''It moves the clock back when you need connections. It makes it doubly hard for social mobility and equal opportunity, because of the connections that it requires at an earlier age, the financial sacrifices and also the culture savoir-faire.''
 While half of internships nationwide are paid or have at least a small stipend, according to national surveys conducted by Vault, unpaid internships are concentrated in the most competitive fields, like politics, television and film.
 ''The more glamorous an internship, the less likely it is paid,'' Mr. Oldman said. ''Washington in general has high-demand internships. In most cases they don't have to pay or they don't have to pay much.'' 
 The White House does not pay the hundred-plus interns who work there during the summer. The Supreme Court does not pay its undergraduate interns, who work 12 to 16 weeks, although in some cases it will give a $1,000 scholarship. And a vast majority of Congressional offices do not pay the 4,000 summer interns who pass through Capitol Hill, though a few, mostly on the Senate side, provide a limited stipend. Congressional offices once each received $3,000 to pay summer interns, but the money was eliminated by budget cuts in the 1990's.
 And since Washington internships serve as a pipeline that brings policy makers into the nation's capital, some people fear that over the long term, internships will be another means, like the rising costs of college tuition, of squeezing voices from the working class and even the middle class out of high-level policy debates. 
 Adam King, 19, a student at Brown University who is an intern in a Senate office, said, ''Dealing with the interns of our office, they were of a class that was extremely privileged.'' Mr. King got into a heated debate with fellow interns who disputed Michael Moore's portrayal of military recruitment in disadvantaged neighborhoods in the film ''Fahrenheit 9/11.''
 ''They don't understand the issues, that the Army recruits poor people; there are Army recruiting people who say, 'Don't go to college, travel around the world,''' said Mr. King, who is working on Capitol Hill through a program that provides a stipend and housing. ''That combined with the fact that so many interns wind up back on the Hill makes me scared that these people could possibly be making policy without understanding where so many of their constituents are coming from.''
 In some cases, students who take the unpaid internships get financial help from their universities or other programs, like the Washington Center, a nonprofit organization that prepares college students for civic leadership. 
 But such programs always receive many more applications than they have available money. The University of Virginia student services center received 10 times as many applicants as it could give summer stipends to this year. ''It was heartbreaking because I couldn't give one to every student who applied,'' said Carrie Rudder, the university's senior assistant director for student services. The stipends are modest at best, often at most $2,000 or $3,000, which is less than students can earn in basic summer jobs.
 ''This program, it's a pay cut,'' Mr. King said. He is receiving $2,000, or $250 a week, for his internship, part of which he sends home to support his mother. ''I could make a lot more bartending or waiting tables or even in a supermarket,'' he said. 
 The high cost of housing in Washington helps widen the gap between the haves and have-nots in the internship world here.
 Some interns are able to live at home and commute. 
 Others find creative solutions. Wes McKain, a 19-year-old intern on Capitol Hill, lived free in housing belonging to the Church of the Nazarene in Washington in exchange for helping with chores.
 Mr. McKain, who is from Kansas City, was surprised by how expensive food is in Washington. He takes a one-hour bus ride to shop in Langley Park, Md., where he can buy a loaf of bread for 70 cents and a gallon of milk for $2.95. ''It's hard-core cheap,'' said Mr. McKain, whose father is a minister.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Lim works two part-time jobs and is an unpaid intern. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (96%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%) United States Politics and Government; Internships ; Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Politics and Government

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



236 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Four Workers Killed in Nuclear Plant Accident in Japan

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
Superheated steam erupted from the ceiling of a nuclear power plant north of Kyoto on Monday, killing four workers and severely burning five others. It was Japan's worst nuclear accident.
 Officials said the steam was not contaminated by radioactivity. No evacuations were ordered of the town of Mihama, where the plant is situated. The Sea of Japan port is about 40 miles north of Kyoto, the country's historic capital. 
 ''Radioactive materials weren't contained in the steam that leaked out,'' an official for the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said at a news conference here.
 The Kansai Electric Power Company, owner of the 28-year-old reactor at Mihama, said in a statement, ''This incident will have no radiation effect on the surrounding environment.'' 
 But the accident is likely to add to Japanese concerns about nuclear power, just as high oil prices and the war in Iraq make it more attractive to economic planners here. With the world's third largest nuclear power industry, after the United States and France, Japan relies on 52 nuclear power plants to generate almost one-third of the nation's electricity. But it has also been heavily dependent on oil imports from the Middle East and has worked aggressively with Russia over the last year to develop oil and gas deposits in Siberia.
 A government plan calls for building 11 more nuclear plants and raising the percentage of the nation's power supplied by nuclear energy to nearly 40 percent by 2010. But these plans have stalled as the public has become increasingly wary of nuclear power. Many towns have held referendums, voting against building nuclear plants.
 Wariness has been fueled by accidents and by a cover-up culture in which employees show far greater loyalty to their companies than to the public's right to know.
 Last summer, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, the nation's largest utility, was forced to close all 17 of its nuclear plants temporarily after admitting that it had faked safety reports for more than a decade.
 ''After the Tepco scandal of two years ago, today's accident would accelerate people's worry and suspicion about the safety management of the nuclear power plants,'' Satoshi Fujino, a staff member at Citizens' Nuclear Information Center, a private nuclear power watch organization, said in an interview. ''This plant is pretty old, and there are many plants even older.''
 While the accident on Monday appeared not to involve radioactive releases, the horrific nature of the deaths has augmented the publicity.
 ''Staff rushed in screaming,'' a 65-year-old company cafeteria worker told Kyodo News. ''I put in a container all the ice I could find and gave it.''
 Company officials said the accident took place in the turbine building of the No. 3 nuclear reactor in Mihama, which was scheduled to be closed Saturday for routine maintenance.
 About 200 workers were in the building at 3:30 p.m., when a two-foot-wide hole burst in a steel pipe that carried steam, pressurized and heated to as much as 400 degrees.
 All of the dead and injured men had been working in the second-floor room where the pipe burst.
 ''The ones who died had stark white faces,'' Yoshihiro Sugiura, a doctor who treated them, told The Associated Press. ''This shows they had rapidly been exposed to heat.''
 The United States had a similar accident at the Surry nuclear power plant in southern Virginia almost two decades ago, when an 18-inch steel pipe burst and released 30,000 gallons of boiling water and steam, killing four people.
 Japanese nuclear safety officials said it would be impossible for the leaked steam to contain radioactivity because the water in the steam turbines does not come in contact with water used as a coolant for the reactor.
 Kansai Electric said it closed the 826,000-kilowatt nuclear generation unit at the reactor and was not sure when it would be restarted.
 A Kansai Electric official said at the news conference that the company was trying to determine the cause of the accident, and that the other two reactors at the complex would continue running. 
 Yosaku Fuji, president of Kansai Electric, apologized and bowed deeply before reporters at the televised news conference.
 ''We are deeply sorry to have caused so much concern,'' he said. ''There is nothing we can say to the four who lost their lives. We pray for their souls from the bottom of our hearts and offer our condolences to their families. We are truly sorry.''
 With the accident occurring on the 59th anniversary of the nuclear bombing of Nagasaki, political and industry leaders were quick on Monday to assure the public that a thorough investigation would take place. 
 ''I think we must do our best to investigate the cause, to prevent a repeat, and to implement safety measures,'' said Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi. 
 Takuya Ito, the public relations director of the Federation of Electric Power Companies, expressed concern in an interview that the accident could further hurt popular trust in nuclear power ''because these are the first deaths from an accident in a nuclear power plant in operation.'' The most recent fatality in the nuclear power industry was in 1999, at a fuel-reprocessing plant in Tokaimura, northeast of Tokyo, when a radiation leak killed two workers, exposed 600 people to low levels of radiation, and caused the evacuation of thousands of residents. That accident was caused by three workers who tried to save time by mixing excessive amounts of uranium in buckets instead of using special mechanized tanks. Two of the workers who caused the disaster later died from their injuries. 
 More recently, in February, eight workers were exposed to low-level radiation at another power plant when they were accidentally sprayed with contaminated water. The doses were not considered dangerous. 
 On Monday, a small fire broke out at a nuclear facility in Shimane Prefecture, 375 miles southwest of Tokyo. No one was injured and it posed no threat of radiation leaks.
 ''A fire broke out at a waste processing site, where we also have a laundry facility. But it was quickly extinguished,'' said a spokesman for Chugoku Electric Power Company, which operates the site.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Akira Kokado, a vice director of the nuclear plant in Mihama, at a news conference this morning. (Photo by Associated Press)
 Steam billowed from the No. 3 reactor of the plant in Mihama, Japan, yesterday after a pipe burst. It was the country's worst nuclear accident. (Photo by Kyodo, via Associated Press)Map of Japan highlighting Mihama. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (95%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (94%); POWER PLANTS (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (92%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (91%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); REFERENDUMS (63%) Electric Light and Power; Accidents and Safety; Atomic Energy; Public Opinion; Steam; Factories and Industrial Plants; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (84%); KANSAI ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (71%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (84%); 9503 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) JAPAN (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) Japan; Mihama (Japan); France

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



237 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: an Update

BYLINE: By ADRIANA LINS de ALBUQUERQUE, MICHAEL OHANLON AND AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Adriana Lins de Albuquerque and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, senior research assistant and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
On June 28, the United States and its coalition partners transferred sovereign control of Iraq to an interim government headed by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. The transfer of sovereignty ended more than a year of American-led occupation, and put in place an Iraqi political process that is expected to lead to elections and a new Iraqi constitution next year. 
 Several weeks into this new phase in Iraq, how well can we say the American-led occupation went, and how are things going now? While we know that the situation is not going to change overnight, our measures do not show much improvement in the quality of life for Iraqis since our last report on this page in May. Though the unemployment rate appears to be dropping and electricity production is rising, the economy is still not much better than it was under Saddam Hussein. 
 The end of the occupation has, however, led to an improvement in Iraqi morale and hopefulness. That may in turn reduce the willingness of Iraqi citizens to join the resistance out of frustration or anger at the United States.
 But Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld probably spoke too soon when he suggested in late July that Iraq ''continues to calm down.'' Casualty levels remain high -- for Iraqis and foreigners, citizens and soldiers alike. Car bombings, rates of violent crime, and insurgent attacks on foreign and Iraqi security forces show no signs of abating. And according to the most recent American intelligence, the Iraqi resistance is now substantially larger than previously estimated. Fortunately, Iraqi security forces continue to grow in numbers and to improve in quality. But whether their abilities are growing fast enough to be able to secure the country for democracy remains an open question.


GRAPHIC: ChartChart shows a update of the state of Iraq in the following areas since April 10, 2004 through July 2004:SECURITYECONOMIC AND QUALITY OF LIFEIRAQI MORALE AND VIEWS OF THE U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); VIOLENT CRIME (65%) United States International Relations; Public Opinion; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government ; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Michael O'Hanlon; Amy Unikewicz; Adriana Lins de Albuquerque

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



238 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Artistic Enclave Gets Its Footing In Rhode Island

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: PAWTUCKET, R.I., Aug. 5 

 BODY:
When James Doyle was elected mayor of this gritty mill city on the Blackstone River, its abandoned textile mills seemed to have all the appeal of an open grave.
 Now, nearly seven years later, he salutes them as the lure that drew an influx of artists seeking cheap studio space within driving distance of Boston and New York, bringing new life to the buildings and to the city itself. 
 ''We had all noticed to a great degree how the city had gotten kind of rundown, and the downtown became moribund,'' Mr. Doyle said. ''We were looking for ways, and goodness, here we are.'' 
 For years a handful of artists had been working in Pawtucket's old mills, but in the late 1990's word began to spread among artists that within the 70 or so abandoned mills lay the promise of spacious urban-style lofts. The city began courting artists and cultural organizations in 1999, selling the area as a creative enclave that has room to grow and yet a desire to stay small. Pawtucket, which calls itself the birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution, having built the nation's first cotton mill in 1790, was ready for a renaissance.
 While transforming mill buildings into art space is not a novel idea, some say Pawtucket is different in that it created a concentrated 307-acre arts district out of 23 mills. 
 There are about 100 arts districts nationwide, according to a spokeswoman for Americans for the Arts, a nonprofit organization. Under a Rhode Island law passed in 1999, artists who live or work within a designated arts district are not required to pay state taxes on sales of original work.
 Artists say Pawtucket offers small-town friendliness and accessibility cloaked in industrial urban grit, and the type of space usually available only for exorbitant prices in large cities: open lofts with wooden floors, high ceilings, large windows and copious lighting. The city is now providing lists of available properties and economic and benefits, like tax incentives, to prospective residents. Nineteen artists, including 10 here, had taken advantage of state's tax incentives as of this week.
 Ranne Warner, owner of Riverfront Lofts, a former mill being turned into condominiums, said that about 80 percent of the development's 60 units have been sold, and that the first tenants will start moving in this month.
 Artists also say the city, while cultivating its own creative community, affords easy access to the art world of neighboring Providence and is only 50 minutes from Boston. (New York is about a two-and-a-half-hour drive.) The city also has plenty of parking, accessibility to industrial materials and easy highway access, things that caused the well-known glass sculptor Howard Ben Tre to relocate from New York, moving his studio to Pawtucket in 1984.
 There are downsides, residents say, particularly a downtown that remains stagnant. And Sue Plamondon, 49, who owns the Colonial Flower Shop, said the arts could actually drive a wedge between artists and the city's working class.
 ''How can people afford to go to the theater?'' she said. ''I don't know about this. People here are reluctant to change.''
 Meanwhile artists who have worked in Pawtucket for years worry that the feeling of isolation they sought in moving here might be lost. Those moving in say the granting of permits and other municipal processes are slower than one would expect in a city that claims to be on the fast track to change.
 Another potential problem lies with longtime residents reluctant to see the city's blue collar turn bohemian. 
 ''I think there are people who might not understand the connective link,'' Mr. Doyle said. ''They look at it just as the artists' community and not as encouraging small business and taxes.''
 In creating the Pawtucket arts area, city officials were hoping to lure people like Joe Haskett, 33, an architect, and his girlfriend, Kirsten Murphy, 34, a graphic designer. Mr. Haskett, who spent part of the 1990's living in Milan, Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio, arrived at Providence's Rhode Island School of Design for graduate school in 1999. Ms. Murphy soon followed from Manhattan. The couple lived in Providence after he graduated in 2002 but grew tired of renting a tiny apartment. Last year they bought a 7,500-square-foot building in Pawtucket, an old shoe store, and transformed it into live-work space, something Mr. Haskett said the couple could not have afforded anywhere else. 
 ''It's a different feel, it's a different vibe,'' Mr. Haskett said. ''The feeling we have is, we're on the ground level of something that could be very cool. That is a scary feeling, but it's a great feeling as well.''
 Pat Zacks, a longtime resident and camera store owner who founded the Pawtucket Arts Collaborative in 1999 to connect the community with local artists, said the city's dynamics were changing faster than anyone imagined. Local artists barely knew one another a few years ago; today they and a spate of newcomers are gelling into a community, she said. 
 ''Over the past two years it's been very, very active, almost to the point of crazy,'' she said. A lot of people are hearing about the city and want to be included.''
 The city is trying to lure arts businesses and organizations as well. The Gamm Theater, a Providence repertory company, moved here last year, as did Mirror Image, a textile printing company from Cambridge, Mass. Tony Estrella, artistic director of the Gamm, said that the theater had outgrown its space and was having trouble keeping up with Providence's rising rents and property taxes. 
 ''There was some squawking about it, people saying, 'I don't know about Pawtucket, I don't know if we'll work over there,' '' he said. ''The exact opposite has happened. Once they take a look and see what we have, they're more often than not bound to come back.''
 A loan program is being offered to restaurateurs willing to move into the downtown area, which has just one sit-down restaurant, the China Inn. The Pawtucket Armory is being turned into an arts complex that will house the state's first arts high school.
 While the city is marketing itself as friendly toward developers and artists, Peter Gill Case, a Providence architect who bought a mill for $1 in 2001 and is converting it into 25 live-work condominiums, said Pawtucket operates with a good deal of red tape.
 ''As much as Pawtucket has helped in terms of incentives such as selling the building for $1, there was a lot of political stuff,'' he said, citing a drawn-out fracas with the city and a neighbor to create a parking lot for the building. ''It being a smaller city, you'd think there would be smoother and there would be less bureaucracy, but there wasn't.''
 Barney Warner, the city's assistant director of planning and redevelopment, said the parking lot took so long to put together because it involved creating an oddly laid-out plan that had to satisfy five businesses.
 Pawtucket also faces the ''SoHo effect,'' where artists move in, drive up property values and eventually price out those the district was created to attract. But city officials say they are determined not to let that happen, insisting their development strategy is one of long-term sustainability for artists.
 Mr. Doyle said that creativity had become this city's panacea.
 ''It's part of the big turnaround we're looking for,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Joe Haskett and Kirsten Murphy bought this former store in Pawtucket, R.I., last year and remade into a space for living and working.
 Mayor James Doyle in front of Pawtucket's mill district, which the city has been transforming into a haven for artists. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. E5)Map of Rhode Island highlighting Pawtucket. (pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILE MFG (90%); TEXTILES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (86%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); MAYORS (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); LEGISLATION (50%) Art; Factories and Industrial Plants

PERSON: Katie Zezima

GEOGRAPHIC: PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (72%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) Pawtucket (Ri)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



239 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Why Joggers Labor And Olympians Fly; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: The Science of the Long-Distance Runner

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
The marathon at the Olympics in Athens this month is fearsome, so grueling that even an elite athlete is liable to feel at least a moment of trepidation. The 26-mile, 385-yard course includes, among other body-bashing stretches, a 13-mile hill so steep it has been described as the equivalent of running up a five-story building every mile.
 Your everyday, normal sort of runner, like me, will be breathless just watching. But many of the Olympic runners will make it look easy. 
 I can run up that mountain only in my dreams, no matter how hard I work. The difference between me and them is so great that I find myself consumed with curiosity over exactly how much of running fast and far is innate, and how much can be attributed to training, motivation and technique. 
 I wonder how those remarkable athletes got to be who they are. And I wonder what they know, and what, if anything, people like me can learn to be more accomplished.
 I have learned a thing or two close to home. I watched as my son took off like a gazelle when he was in middle school, uncoached and untrained, and went on to be a high school track and cross country star, and then to run on the varsity teams at a Division I university. He gave me tips -- relax your upper body, run on your mid-foot, raise your knees -- and they helped. But I always knew that there was a fundamental difference between him and me when it came to running far and fast. We still run together, but all that means is that we start out at the same place and end up at the same place. In between, he loses me.
 On the other hand, my son learned in college that there also was a noticeable difference between him and the runners who went on to become national champions. And it was not a matter of trying harder.
 Researchers say elite distance runners share several inborn physiological traits, including large hearts, an efficient way of moving and an ability to keep running when they are exerting so much effort that they are panting for breath, that make them faster than most recreational runners. 
 They also naturally avoid the sort of errors in technique that Dr. Robert Fitts, an exercise physiologist and competitive runner at Marquette University, sees in recreational athletes who run in 5- and 10-kilometer road races.
 For example, Dr. Fitts says, many recreational runners turn their feet out to the side rather than keeping them in a straight line. That wastes energy and slows runners down.
 ''Your feet should go out one in front of the other,'' Dr. Fitts explained. ''It is not very difficult to learn. I used to run along the line that is painted on a track and I would concentrate on both feet hitting that line.''
 Stride length, Dr. Fitts said, is also important.
 ''If you have the proper stride length when you push off, then you get the proper extension and flexion,'' he said. ''If you take too short of a stride, you look like a shuffler. If it is too long, you look like you are bouncing. A good runner should almost be able to run with an apple on their head.'' 
 Finally, Dr. Fitts advised, many people hold their arms too high, making their shoulder muscles work while they run. ''It is better to hold your arms along your waist, with bent elbows,'' he said. 
 He added that these are all errors that can be corrected.
 ''Most people don't know these things just because they start to run,'' he said ''Somebody has to tell you. But most people at these road races are very inefficient. They never were taught at all.''
 With elite runners, the question is not so much technique but rather the tiny physiological differences that make one smooth, relaxed, fast runner win every race while another, who looks equally good, falls behind.
 Exercise physiologists say there are three components to great running: A high VO2 max, the volume of oxygen an athlete can consume at maximum exertion; great running efficiency, a measurement of the energy used to run at a particular pace; and an ability to keep going at a high level of exertion for a long time, expressed as the percentage of VO2 max that can be sustained during a run.
 Athletes with a high VO2 max can pump large volumes of blood to their muscles, usually because they have large and powerful hearts, said Dr. Paul Ribisl, an exercise physiologist and a runner at Wake Forest University. The heart of an average adult pumps about 15 liters a minute. The heart of an elite distance runner typically pumps at least twice that amount. 
 VO2 max increases with training, as a person goes from physically unfit to physically fit. But, physiologists say, even when elite runners are out of training -- when they have not run for months or longer -- they have a VO2 max substantially higher than that of a recreational runner. 
 Competitive runners are also efficient, exerting themselves less than those with less talent.
 Conventional wisdom says the energy required to run a mile is the same, no matter whether you are fast or slow. But it turns out that elite runners simply do not work as hard as the less able.
 In a study of elite runners, good runners and untrained, but equally physically fit runners, Dr. Don Morgan, an exercise physiologist and recreational runner at Middle Tennessee State University, and his colleagues found that the better the runners were, the less effort they exerted running at a particular pace. 
 But within a group of equally good runners, there were profound differences in efficiency. In treadmill tests, Dr. Morgan found that one runner could end up burning 20 percent more calories than another running the same distance at the same speed.
 The inefficient runners were not necessarily those who looked more awkward as they ran. 
 ''Some runners in our lab don't look good when they run, but they are very economical,'' Dr. Morgan said. ''Others are aesthetically beautiful but are not economical.'' 
 Exercise physiologists are focusing on ways to make runners more efficient. They speculate that a number of factors might determine efficiency, and that some, like the biochemistry of the runner's muscles or the structure of the runner's body, are simply innate. But one factor, stride length, might be amenable to change.
 About 20 percent of the competitive runners that Dr. Morgan and his colleagues tested were overstriding, or taking steps too large for maximum efficiency. None were taking steps that were too small. The researchers set out to train the overstriders to take shorter steps.
 For three weeks, five times a week, the athletes ran on treadmills at the physiology lab, their pace set by the beat of a metronome. That rhythm forced the runners to shorten their strides, and, as a consequence, they ran about 3 percent faster.
 ''For someone like me, it wouldn't make any difference,'' Dr. Morgan said. ''But for an elite runner, that small percentage change could mean a big deal.''
 The third characteristic that elite runners have, but that can also improve with training, is an ability to continue running for long times at a high level of exertion, the so-called anerobic threshold. That pace, said Dr. David Martin, an exercise physiologist at Georgia State University, is ''when the conversation stops and the work begins.'' If you can carry on a conversation while you are running, he said, you have not reached it.
 For runners to increase the amount of time they can run at their anerobic threshold, they have to run at that level in training, exercise physiologists say.
 ''Good American runners do train at an anerobic threshold pace,'' Dr. Martin said. ''But sometimes these runners, they're little studs. They get out there running, but, they say: 'This feels so easy. I know the coach said 10 miles at anerobic threshold, but I'll just pick up the pace.' Then they are overtraining.''
 The result, he said, is poor performance.
 While a high VO2 max, great efficiency and an ability to run long distances at the anerobic threshold are common in elite distance runners, few excel at all three.
 Dr. Morgan and Dr. Jack Daniels at the State University of New York at Cortland, for example, studied elite runners who were equally fast. Some would have a high VO2 max, but lower economy than their peers, or vice versa. 
 As for the rest of the population, improvement is possible, but no amount of training can turn a person who is not gifted into an elite athlete. This became clear to one researcher, Dr. Robert R. Wolfe, when, in graduate school, he began running with Brook Thomas, a friend who had come in fourth in the Olympic trials.
 Dr. Wolfe, now the director of the metabolism branch at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, had run competitively in college. But running with his friend, he always lagged behind.
 At one point, Mr. Thomas was injured, and he did not run for five months. When he was ready to return to running, he called Dr. Wolfe and suggested they run together.
 They set off at a fast clip, with Mr. Thomas setting a five-and-a-half minute-per-mile pace.
 ''I was just dying, trying to keep up,'' Dr. Wolfe recalled. 
 He accosted Mr. Thomas. How could it be that after all those months away from running, he could cruise along at such a speed, with no apparent effort? Mr. Thomas replied that he had always been able to run at that pace.
 ''That was a watershed for me,'' Dr. Wolfe said. ''That's when I realized that no matter how hard I train, I will never get to that level.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Aug. 10 about running techniques misstated the achievements of one runner, Brook Thomas. Mr. Thomas was an all-American while running for Stanford University in cross country, and competed in the Olympic marathon trial in 1972, but dropped out before the finish. He did not come in fourth. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Culpepper training in Boulder, Colo. Elite distance runners have physiological traits that make them faster than the rest of us. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
Dr. Robert Fitts demonstrating his running technique. From left, his feet go one in front of the other while running in a straight line
his knee is raised with no shuffling
he maintains an efficient stride with no bouncing
 and his arms are kept close to his sides, not pointing outward. (Photographs by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (72%) GREECE (88%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



240 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: Civil Rights Battlegrounds Enter World of Tourism

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
One of the great peculiarities of the South is the exhaustive celebration of its own defeat. Equestrian statues, battle flags and stolid historical markers commemorate seemingly every shot fired in the Civil War. 
 Now, the victories of another war -- against white supremacy, Jim Crow and lynchings -- are starting to get equal billing.
 A surge of interest in the civil rights movement has dislodged lingering discomfort with the past, bringing new attention to the lunch counters, bus terminals and churches that were the movement's battlegrounds. Suddenly, events both major and minor are being memorialized; the projects under way range from full-blown tourist attractions to an attempt to name a Georgia highway for a black G.I. killed by Klansmen. 
 In Greensboro, N.C., the Woolworth where the sit-in movement began will become a museum. In Mississippi, Neshoba County published a civil rights tour guide this summer showing the site where three civil rights workers were killed 40 years ago. In Alabama, the National Park Service will break ground in March on the first of three visitor centers along the route of the Selma-to-Montgomery voting rights march.
 It has not been easy for communities to embrace a past laced with shame and violence. ''Tourism has been forced on these places,'' said Jim Carrier, a writer from Montgomery, Ala., whose ''Traveler's Guide to the Civil Rights Movement'' was published by Harcourt in January. ''It's not like they put out a sign one day and said, 'Come on down and see our civil rights history.' It's in response to people coming down here, lugging big history books, looking for these places.''
 The lure of tourism money has helped overcome the shame. More urgently, the approach of benchmark anniversaries, like the 40th birthday of the voting rights march next spring, has guaranteed a re-examination of the past, whether locals like it or not. Furthermore, economic development officials have begun to preach that acknowledging the past is necessary to show the world that things have changed. 
 Still, the response has been gradual. Until 1993, there was not so much as a sign marking the bus stop in Montgomery where Rosa Parks was arrested. The organizers of the new memorials and museums say that they are the fruit of a shift in attitude, as the first generation of people raised in an integrated society has matured, and resistance to the changes wrought in the 60's has eroded. At the same time, black political power has grown, influencing how history is publicly recounted.
 In Alabama, even towns with no more than a tenuous connection to the movement have asked to be included on a new state civil rights trail, said Lee Sentell, the state tourism director. ''People want to have their contribution to civil rights progress connected with their hometown,'' Mr. Sentell said. ''That's a change. People are seeing this as more mainstream than people have in the past.'' 
 Part of that, he said, is because of the success of the first major civil rights museums, in Birmingham and Memphis, each about a dozen years old. Each attracts about 150,000 people a year. The Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site in Atlanta is one of the South's most popular tourist attractions, with more than 650,000 visitors last year.
 Their popularity has shown that the history of the 50's and 60's is a valuable commodity. ''There are so many desperately poor communities and a lot of what they have going for them is their civil rights history,'' said Susan Glisson, director of the William Winter Institute for Racial Reconciliation at the University of Mississippi in Oxford.
 Yet resistance persists, particularly among whites who see no reason to dredge up the painful past or who fear that the motive is to assign blame. 
 In Greensboro, the Woolworth where four black college freshmen dared to sit at the whites-only lunch counter on Feb. 1, 1960, was to be replaced by a parking garage before it was bought by two local black politicians, Earl Young and Skip Alston, a decade ago. They announced plans to turn it into a museum. 
 In 1999, a bond referendum that would have given the project $3 million failed by a narrow margin. The vote split on racial lines, said McArthur Davis, a stockbroker who until recently was the project's executive director, with 85 percent of blacks in favor and 75 percent of whites against. That year a headless skunk was hung on the Woolworth's door.
 But the project gained momentum. At presentations to white audiences, Mr. Davis would tell the story of three white women who took seats, then told the waitress to serve the blacks first. ''When you told that story, and the only story they've ever heard was about the four black guys, they said, 'Hey, we did something too,''' Mr. Davis said. Then he added, ''I would also tell blacks that, because many of them didn't know either.'' 
 The students' former school, the North Carolina A&T State University, embraced the project in 2001, lending its vice chancellor for development to help raise money. American Express gave $500,000. And Action Greensboro, the city's downtown development group, pledged $4 million. The museum expects to attract at least 100,000 visitors to Greensboro yearly and create more than 300 jobs. Last month, the legislature allotted $1.5 million for the project.
 Inside the Woolworth, the terrazzo floor is finally emerging from layers of grime. The stainless steel behind the lunch counter gleams as if the last hot dog was sold yesterday. Called the International Civil Rights Center and Museum, it is scheduled to open in 2005, the 45th anniversary of the sit-in.
 Franklin McCain, one of the four students who began the sit-in, thought people had forgotten what happened until the museum plan emerged. All the hurdles over the years were a bit painful, said Mr. McCain, who is 63 and lives in Charlotte, N.C. ''I saw it as a just kind of growing pain, or a situation where no one actually knew the way, and they were plowing new ground,'' Mr. McCain said. 
 In other places, examinations of the not-so-distant past have occasioned long bouts of municipal soul-searching. Many residents of Neshoba County, Miss., believe justice was never served in the case of the three civil rights workers who were killed and buried with a bulldozer. 
 The state did not prosecute anyone for the deaths, yet it was the state Development Authority that first suggested to the predominantly white tourism board that the event warranted public acknowledgement; for years, inquiring tourists received only a handmade flier with directions to the Mount Zion Church, which holds an annual memorial service for the three men.
 Some blacks were initially skeptical of the county's motives, but eventually a multiracial group was formed to research the history and create a tour guide, wrestling with such delicate matters as whether to name the sheriff who arrested the three workers. He is dead, but his son still lives in the community. In the end, the sheriff was not named. ''You have to balance being honest and being respectful of someone whose fault it wasn't,'' said Dr. Glisson, who was called in to mediate.
 David Vowell, the president of the Community Development Partnership, said he was nervous when the process began. ''I wasn't apprehensive about whether or not we were doing the right thing,'' he said. ''We just supposed that there were people out there that wouldn't be receptive to it.''
 In the end, he said, the guide was a big success. But things did not end there; its publication was accompanied by a ''call for justice'' on the 40th anniversary of the deaths. The state has since asked the federal government for help investigating the killings.
 In some communities, history is in danger of disappearing altogether. In Madison County, Ga., a white woman named Dena Chandler was haunted by a story she remembered from childhood, of a black veteran and Army reservist named Lemuel Penn who was killed by Klansmen on his way home from Fort Benning on July 11, 1964. The suspects were acquitted by an all-white jury.
 When Ms. Chandler looked for more information, she found that a book about the case had been repeatedly stolen from local libraries. ''A lot of people had forgotten about Lemuel Penn,'' she said. ''And a lot of the younger people -- and this is what really disturbed me -- had never heard of him. That death shaped their world in ways that they don't know and don't understand unless they know about it.'' 
 Together with a black preacher and his wife, Ms. Chandler organized a gospel concert that raised enough money for a historical marker. The group is also trying to have Highway 172 renamed in Colonel Penn's honor. 
 Although many preservation efforts have been led by multiracial groups, some blacks fear that whites will reap most of the profits. Neatly packaging the past can give the false impression that racism is over, some say of the efforts.
 Mississippi officials ''are trying to use our history to cover up their sins,'' said Curtis Muhammad, a former member of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. ''Not just their past sins, but their present sins.''
 Some say the interest in civil rights is simply an outgrowth of the burgeoning heritage tourism industry. Frances Smiley, who put together the first black heritage guide to Alabama more than two decades ago and still works for the state tourism bureau, sees some truth in that. 
 ''I've had people want to do Civil War and civil rights together,'' Ms. Smiley said. ''And I never imagined that happening.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about tourism at civil rights-era sites misstated the surname of a Greensboro, N.C., politician who helped turn the Woolworth where the sit-in movement began into a museum, and misstated the year a bond referendum for the project failed. He is Earl Jones, not Young. The referendum was defeated in 2000, not 1999. The article also misstated in some copies the name of the college of the four black students who defied a whites-only rule at the Woolworth lunch counter. It is North Carolina A&T State University, not the University of North Carolina A&T. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Greensboro, N.C., the Woolworth where lunch-counter sit-ins began in 1960 is to become a museum. (Photo by John Loomis for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Visitors at a civil rights memorial in Montgomery, Ala., designed by Maya Lin, who also designed the Vietnam memorial in Washington. (Photo by Gary Tramontina for The New York Times)
Elsie Hall and Dena Chandler at the site where Lemuel Penn died. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Jack Moebes/Associated Press)(pg. A19)Map of United States highlighting the South: Cities and counties throughout the South are starting projects to commemorate important moments in the civil rights movement, like the sit-in at Woolworth by four black college students in 1960. (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); CIVIL WAR (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); TOURISM (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); WRITERS (73%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); RIOTS (65%); ARRESTS (50%) Blacks; Travel and Vacations; Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom and Human Rights; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%) National Park Service; Woolworth, F W, Corp

PERSON: Shaila K Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (93%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Southern States (US); Greensboro (Nc); Alabama; Selma (Ala); Montgomery (Ala); Neshoba County (Miss); Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



241 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: Job Numbers in an Election Year

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I wonder whether employers would be hiring more workers if, instead of a tax cut, we had used our surplus to finance new initiatives in basic and catastrophic health care.
 It is not a secret that employers now strive to avoid the costly burden of more employees to insure by stretching existing workers with overtime and by otherwise filling in with uninsured part-time workers.
 The question I weigh is, Which approach would have provided more long-term and broad-based economic benefits to the entire country?

Dewey P. Clark
Madison, N.J., Aug. 8, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (86%); OVERTIME (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment

PERSON: Dewey P Clark

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



242 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Job Numbers in an Election Year

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The seeming contradiction between low job gain in the establishment job survey and declining unemployment rate in the household survey is connected to the increasing aging of the population. 
 Most voluntary retirements and many involuntary retirements among the upper age groups result in withdrawal from the labor force. Others in these groups, because of fundamental changes in the economy, continue work as independents (not included in the establishment survey). Most of the upper age groups don't go into unemployment.
 A result is that the number of employed measured in the establishment survey goes up slowly (despite the increase in population), while the unemployment rate from the household survey goes down, and the number of independent workers, as well as the totals in the household survey, go up faster.

Peter Gutmann
New York, Aug. 7, 2004

The writer is a professor of economics at Baruch College, CUNY.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); AGING TRENDS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment

PERSON: Peter (Prof) Gutmann

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



243 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Songs of Alaska, From Sea to Shining Sea

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Born and raised in Fairbanks, Alaska, I have now lived in New York City for 12 years. As a result, I feel compelled and, as a registered Republican, entitled to respond to one of Doug Isaacson's comments in your article about his coming visit to Manhattan for the Republican National Convention.
 New Yorkers and others who don't themselves live in Alaska have every right to work to protect Alaska's wilderness. Having spent much time in the Alaskan wilderness, I know that this unique habitat exists almost nowhere else. In the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, I saw tire tracks still pressed into the delicate tundra left behind by military vehicles passing through during World War II.
 All Americans have a responsibility to ensure that at least some spots like this remain unspoiled and can be experienced by future generations.

Kristopher Brown
New York, Aug. 6, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (86%); WILDERNESS (86%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); WILDLIFE (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Area Planning and Renewal; Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: Doug Isaacson; Kristopher Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (78%) Alaska

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



244 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: German Banks Avoid Swirl of Transactions

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
From Madrid to London and Tokyo to Beijing, banking deals have become the flavor of the summer. Everywhere, that is, but Germany, where the financial capital, Frankfurt, has settled into its dog days without a significant merger or takeover to its credit.
 On Monday, Commerzbank called off talks to buy BHF-Bank, a small bank based in Frankfurt that is owned by the ING Group of the Netherlands. The deal would hardly have been a blockbuster: BHF, with 2,600 employees, 15 branches and a book value of 1.2 billion euros ($1.4 billion), would have been an easy lunch for Commerzbank, Germany's fourth-largest commercial bank. 
 That Commerzbank scotched the takeover -- it said it could not squeeze enough from a merger to justify the cost -- attests to the difficulty of making almost any deal in Europe's largest, most atomized banking industry.
 ''We couldn't find profitable reasons to do it,'' said Ulrich Ramm, Commerzbank's executive vice president. ''It was quite clear to us that it would be impossible to meet our medium-term targets for a return.''
 BHF, he said, would not have brought Commerzbank enough new customers to offset the cost of laying off redundant employees. The job losses, which could have totaled more than half of BHF's staff, had generated stiff opposition from employees and some senior executives.
 In the United States, Britain and elsewhere, such layoffs are a routine, if not welcome, result of bank mergers. In Germany, with its strict labor laws and strong unions, they can be a deal breaker.
 Layoffs are only one of several hurdles. German banks have been stymied by low profit margins; wobbly balance sheets, because of bad loans and deteriorating assets; a fragmented market; and the dominant role of the government, which owns about half the banks, directly or indirectly. 
 Together, Germany's four biggest commercial banks -- Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank, HVB Group, and Commerzbank -- account for only 16 percent of the industry's total assets, 14 percent of customer deposits, and 13 percent of retail loans, according to the German Bundesbank.
 ''I sometimes say Germany has the largest public-sector banking market behind North Korea,'' Mr. Ramm said.
 For would-be buyers, foreign or domestic, that means precious few options. As a result, even Germany's flagship institution, Deutsche Bank, has been on the sidelines in the most recent skein of deals.
 A Spanish bank, Banco Santander Central Hispano, announced in late July the largest cross-border banking acquisition in European history, an $:8.5 billion ($15.6 billion) bid for Abbey National of Britain.
 London's traders are buzzing with speculation of competing bids, as well as offers for other British banks. Recent speculation has had Citigroup taking over Barclays in a deal worth up to $:45 billion ($82 billion).
 A few months ago, Frankfurt was crackling with the words that Citigroup might buy Deutsche Bank. Although the two conducted exploratory talks in January, Citigroup moved on to Asia, where the market is growing more quickly than in Germany.
 Even in Japan, where the banks spent much of the last decade buried under debt, the industry is coming to life. The Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group of Tokyo announced in late July that it would bid for UFJ Holdings, setting up a battle with the Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group to create a rival to Citigroup.
 In Germany, the talk is of tidying balance sheets, restoring profit margins, and resuscitating share prices.
 HVB, a Munich bank, recorded a profit in the second quarter, after a loss last year. It trimmed costs, disposed of industrial holdings, and took public a 22.5 percent stake in Bank Austria Creditanstalt. Yet its chief executive, Dieter Rampl, said last week that he saw no big deal on the horizon.
 ''European consolidation is moving forward,'' Mr. Rampl said. ''But we have to concentrate on growth by drawing on our own strength.''
 Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank made similar vows. In Deutsche Bank's case, its flexibility was constrained by the six-month corruption trial of its chief executive, Josef Ackermann. He was acquitted last month, and some analysts now expect to see Deutsche Bank re-enter the fray.
 A delayed entry could have its advantages, analysts said. With stronger balance sheets and share prices, Germany's banks would be better equipped to compete with foreign rivals for deals. As the country's economy revives, prospective sellers would also fetch higher prices.
 BHF's owner expressed little alarm at losing the Commerzbank deal. ING, which is based in Amsterdam, said it was in talks with other potential buyers. Some bankers here speculated that Commerzbank might revisit a deal if ING cut BHF's costs, as it has signaled it would.
 ''It would make sense to let ING do the dirty work, and look at it again later,'' a Frankfurt banker said, on condition of anonymity.
 For all the expressions of confidence, there is a palpable fear in Germany that unless the country's leading banks start cutting deals soon, they could end up not as predators, but as prey.
 ''As consolidation goes on in our neighboring countries, their banks are becoming larger and larger,'' Mr. Ramm said. ''That makes them difficult targets for us. Perhaps we are the easier target for them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dieter Rampl, HVB chief, saw no big deals on the horizon. (Photo by Wolfgang von Brauchitsch/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HISTORY (50%) Banks and Banking

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (92%); ING GROEP NV (90%); BHF-BANK INTERNATIONAL SA (58%); UNICREDIT BANK AG (58%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (58%); ING BHF-BANK AG (58%); BHF-BANK SCHWEIZ AG (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); SANTANDER UK PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Bhf-Bank Ag ; Commerzbank; Ing Group (Internationale Nederlanden Groep Nv); Hvb Group

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (92%); CBK (FRA) (92%); INGA (BIT) (90%); INGA (AMS) (90%); ING (NYSE) (90%); SANT (LIS) (58%); SANT (BIT) (58%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (58%); SAN (NYSE) (58%); SAN (MCE) (58%); SAN (BMV) (58%); BNC (LSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (50%)

PERSON: Mark Landler; Ulrich Ramm; Dieter Rampl

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); EUROPE (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Germany 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



245 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Lingering Woes Take Some Shine Off Disney's Gains

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
When the Walt Disney Company announces its third-quarter results on Tuesday, investors are expected to receive the good news that the company is on track to deliver on its promise of an increase in earnings of more than 40 percent this year.
 But summertime optimism could be tempered this fall as Disney faces jockeying over a new board member, a potentially embarrassing trial in a shareholder lawsuit, testy negotiations over its art-house studio and continued questions about its growth prospects.
 Disney's chief executive, Michael D. Eisner, who was stripped of his chairman's title at March's annual board election after an unusual no-confidence vote by shareholders, is sure to come under fire again as two dissident investors and former board members, Stanley Gold and Roy Disney, the nephew of the company's founder, are expected to propose a slate of directors to replace Mr. Eisner and others. 
 ''Investors want to know what's coming down the road and are things headed in the right direction,'' said Ann Yerger, deputy director of the Council of Institutional Investors, which advises large institutional investors on corporate governance issues. 
 Disney has come a long way since its share price hit an eight-year low of $13.77 in August 2002. For the 2004 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, many Wall Street analysts expect the company to earn $1.04 a share, well above the 66 cents a share it earned in the previous fiscal year. In addition, the company has said it will recommend a dividend increase to the board, a boon for investors.
 And Disney's stock price has gained over the last two years -- outperforming the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- closing on Monday at $21.94, down 5 cents, though that is nearly 23 percent off its 52-week high of $28.41.
 The steady stream of criticism of Mr. Eisner in the first half of this year, when the company also battled a takeover offer from Comcast, has quieted, too, a shift that analysts chalk up to the company's improving fortunes, investor fatigue and Wall Street's preoccupation with the growth of the economy and the possibility of terrorist attacks.
 Disney executives and board members declined to comment or did not return phone calls. But long-term investors and analysts, despite recent encouraging news, are concerned about what will happen in the 2005 fiscal year and beyond. ''Ultimately management's success is all going to hinge on the performance, the quality of Disney's earnings and their sustainability,'' Ms. Yerger said.
 One concern is that Disney has not been able to turn around the ABC network. And there is a perception that Disney's other businesses could grow more slowly compared with their rivals.
 In July, Richard Bilotti, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, lowered his 2005 earnings forecast for the company to $1.15 a share from $1.19, citing weaker DVD sales for movies as a result of the recent poor showing in the film division, including ''The Alamo'' and ''Home on the Range.'' He predicted theme park performance, which has historically been a major driver of revenue, will slow from 2005 to 2009. And he warned that Disney's long-term growth is largely tied to the performance of one division, the cable networks group, which includes the highly profitable ESPN and Disney Channel. 
 Questions loom, too, over what will happen with Miramax, the art-house studio that was started by Harvey and Bob Weinstein, as well as Disney's storied animation division. Miramax's co-founders are renegotiating their employment agreements with Disney and a deal could be reached that would allow Harvey Weinstein to become an independent producer while Bob Weinstein would stay at Disney. 
 In animation, Disney continues to lag behind in the popular computer-generated film genre, trailing peers like DreamWorks Animation, which announced recently that it would sell shares to the public, and Pixar Animation Studios, which will end its highly profitable joint venture with Disney next year. Disney has two coming computer-generated movies planned, the direct-to-video release ''Twice Upon a Christmas'' with Mickey Mouse, which will come out this year, and ''Chicken Little,'' which will be released in theaters next year. Richard Greenfield, an analyst at Fulcrum Global Partners, said investors would be watching how Disney succeeded in animation on its own without Pixar.
 Corporate governance issues are likely to continue to pester Disney's board. In October, a shareholder lawsuit is set to go to trial over the controversial $140 million severance package paid to Michael Ovitz, the Hollywood agent Mr. Eisner hired as Disney's president. The trial could dredge up old information that is embarrassing to Mr. Eisner. Already some highly personal letters from Mr. Eisner to Mr. Ovitz have made it around Hollywood and in the news media.
 Disney is also seeking a new independent director, and a group of some of the nation's largest pension plans have been interviewing potential candidates in recent weeks, hoping that Disney will appoint one of them. The group is expected to propose a series of candidates ahead of a board meeting in September.
 ''At this point we are engaging the board; we are having a dialogue,'' said Christy Wood, a senior investment officer for global equities at the California Public Employee Retirement System, which last March called for Mr. Eisner's departure. ''We are heading down a path of working with them.''
 But the real drama to be watched is how much noise Mr. Gold and Mr. Disney, who last year campaigned to oust Mr. Eisner, make ahead of Disney's annual meeting in March. The two have yet to announce who they want to nominate to the board, and many on Wall Street are preparing for what could be a long and bitter proxy fight.
 Ultimately, Mr. Gold's and Mr. Disney's success, or lack of it, will depend on the success that management has in turning the company around.
 ''If it is good, the board doesn't have to do anything,'' Mr. Greenfield said. ''If it is not, they do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Disney's chief executive, Michael D. Eisner, spoke in Los Angeles yesterday as Donald Duck received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. (Photo by Armando Arorizo/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD CHANGES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DIVIDENDS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LITIGATION (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%)

PERSON: Laura M Holson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



246 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Markets Hold Steady as Traders Watch Oil and the Fed

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Shares were little changed yesterday, failing to rebound from last week's sharp declines as investors showed concern about record-high oil prices and an expected interest rate increase today.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.67 point, or 0.01 percent, to 9,814.66. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.25 points, or 0.12 percent, to 1,065.22. The Nasdaq composite index lost 2.25 points, or 0.13 percent, to 1,774.64. The oil companies Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips helped push up the S.&P. 500 after oil prices rose by more than a dollar to $44.98 a barrel before slipping back slightly. Exxon Mobil was up 44 cents, to $45.56, and ConocoPhillips rose $1.17, to $75.09. The S.&P. Integrated Oil and Gas index rose 1.12 percent. 
 The department store chain Dillard's Inc. rose $1.22, or 5.7 percent, to $22.70 on news that it would sell its credit card subsidiary to the GE Consumer Finance unit of General Electric for about $1.25 billion. 
 Citigroup Inc. was also higher, after it said it would buy the derivatives business of Knight Trading Group Inc. for $225 million in cash. Citigroup's stock rose 28 cents, to $43.47. Knight rose 47 cents, or 5.7 percent, to $8.76.
 Investors were cautious about dipping back into the market after last week's sharp declines, which came amid high oil prices and a weak jobs report. They were also awaiting today's expected quarter-point interest rate increase from the Federal Reserve.
 ''Everyone is waiting to see what the Fed is going to do,'' said Victor Pugliese, managing director at the First Albany Corporation. ''Are they really going to raise by a quarter-point? Or if they don't raise, then people will say, what do they see that we don't see?'' 
 Trading was light, with 1.09 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, well below the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. About 1.26 billion shares were traded on Nasdaq, below the 1.69-billion daily average last year.
 Decliners slightly outnumbered advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and beat advancers by about 3 to 2 on the Nasdaq.
 United States Treasury prices slipped as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates and as a sale of new three-year notes drew only modest demand. The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 10/32 to 103 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.26 percent, from 4.22 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills and three-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.624	99.158	High Rate	1.470	1.665	Investment Rate	1.497	1.703	Low Rate	1.440	1.630	Median Rate	1.455	1.650	Total applied for	$42,417,918	$36,377,236	Accepted	$25,690,383	$23,497,976	Noncompetitive	$1,423,490	$1,137,753	

Both issues are dated Aug. 12, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 12, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 10, 2005.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.737
High Yield: 2.842
Low Yield: 2.798
Median Yield: 2.830
Total applied for: 47,144,547
Accepted: 24,668,396
Noncompetitive: 276,025
Interest set at: 2 3/4

The 3-year notes mature August 15, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from April, 2004 to August, 2004. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); AUCTIONS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); DIVESTITURES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); RETAILERS (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (93%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (83%); DILLARD'S INC (69%); KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (68%); GLEACHER & CO INC (65%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); GNE (PAR) (83%); GEC (LSE) (83%); GE (SWX) (83%); GE (NYSE) (83%); DL7A (FRA) (69%); DDS (NYSE) (69%); KCG (PAR) (68%); KCG (NYSE) (68%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (65%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (69%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



247 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Perelman Seeks Controlling Stake in Maker of Hummer

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Ronald O. Perelman, the financier who owns Revlon, is near a deal to buy control of AM General, the maker of Hummer sport utility vehicles and military Humvees, in a complex deal worth more than $930 million, executives close to the deal said yesterday. 
 The transaction, which is expected to be completed as early as today, will put Mr. Perelman in partnership with Ira L. Rennert, who bought AM General out of bankruptcy for $133 million in 1992 and who will maintain a stake in the business after selling control to Mr. Perelman, the executives said. 
 The deal would end a nearly two-year-long auction for AM General. Mr. Rennert put the automaker up for sale hoping to take advantage of the increasing popularity of Hummer and robust sales of the Humvee, which was deployed by the United States military in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 The Hummer line of vehicles marketed to civilians is sold through General Motors as part of a marketing deal struck between AM General and G.M. in 1999.
 Under the terms of the agreement, G.M. designs and markets the Hummer while AM General makes the vehicle. 
 While sales of Hummers were brisk when the auction for the company first began, they have slowed since then, falling 22 percent this year, through July, in part because the novelty of the Hummer H2, a more plush version of its boxy sibling, appears to have run its course.
 The companies recently introduced a pickup version of the H2 and plan a smaller, less expensive Hummer next year, the H3.
 Still, the company is expected to grow through orders from the military, which represents more than two-thirds of sales, the executives said.
 A $400 billion military appropriations bill signed by President Bush last week included hundreds of millions of dollars for new Humvees.
 For Mr. Perelman, a frequent bold-faced name in the gossip pages, the deal represents his latest foray into a business with celebrity cachet. (Hummers originally became popular among the public after celebrities like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Andre Agassi drove them.)
 Besides Revlon, which he bought in 1985 for $1.8 billion after a long hostile takeover battle that put him on corporate America's map as a tenacious investor to be feared, he has made investments in varied businesses like Marvel Entertainment, Sunbeam, M&F Worldwide and Panavision.
 The deal for AM General, which is based in South Bend, Ind., and traces its roots back to the early 1900's, is being structured as a complex joint venture in which Mr. Perelman will control the partnership and Mr. Rennert will continue to own a stake that gives him revenue tied directly to certain products, the executives said.
 Exact terms of the deal, which will not be disclosed when the private transaction is announced, could not be determined.
 Citigroup is underwriting a $600 million loan to Mr. Perelman's company, MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings, to finance the transaction, the executives said.
 The auction for AM General is being run by J.P. Morgan and Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft. MacAndrews & Forbes was advised by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.
 Hummers weigh so much that they are exempt from federal fuel economy regulations as well as many federal crash and safety tests.
 They also are eligible for special tax breaks originally conceived for pickup trucks but now applied to the heaviest sport utility vehicles.
 For environmental groups, the Hummer has become the symbol of the nation's dependence on foreign oil and lack of progress in improving fuel economy. 
 The Sierra Club runs a satirical Web site, www.hummerdinger.com, that lampoons the vehicle and its audience, while other sites offer more vulgar criticism.
 Earth Liberation Front, a militant environmentalist group, has been linked to the arson of a Hummer dealership in West Covina, Calif., last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); DEFENSE ORDERS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (68%); LEGISLATION (63%) Automobiles; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); MACANDREWS & FORBES HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Am General

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (52%) Ronald O Perelman; Ira Rennert; Andrew Ross Sorkin; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (51%) INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



248 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Spin The Payrolls

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When Friday's dismal job report was released, traders in the Chicago pit began chanting, ''Kerry, Kerry.'' But apologists for President Bush's economic policies are frantically spinning the bad news. Here's a guide to their techniques.
 First, they talk about recent increases in the number of jobs, not the fact that payroll employment is still far below its previous peak, and even further below anything one could call full employment. Because job growth has finally turned positive, some economists (who probably know better) claim that prosperity has returned -- and some partisans have even claimed that we have the best economy in 20 years. 
 But job growth, by itself, says nothing about prosperity: growth can be higher in a bad year than a good year, if the bad year follows a terrible year while the good year follows another good year. I've drawn a chart of job growth for the 1930's; there was rapid nonfarm job growth (8.1 percent) in 1934, a year of mass unemployment and widespread misery -- but that year was slightly less terrible than 1933. 
 So have we returned to prosperity? No: jobs are harder to find, by any measure, than they were at any point during Bill Clinton's second term. The job situation might have improved somewhat in the past year, but it's still not good.
 Second, the apologists give numbers without context. President Bush boasts about 1.5 million new jobs over the past 11 months. Yet this was barely enough to keep up with population growth, and it's worse than any 11-month stretch during the Clinton years.
 Third, they cherry-pick any good numbers they can find.
 The shocking news that the economy added only 32,000 jobs in July comes from payroll data. Experts say what Alan Greenspan said in February: ''Everything we've looked at suggests that it's the payroll data which are the series which you have to follow.'' Another measure of employment, from the household survey, fluctuates erratically; for example, it fell by 265,000 in February, a result nobody believes. Yet because July's household number was good, suddenly administration officials were telling reporters to look at that number, not the more reliable payroll data.
 By the way, over the longer term all the available data tell the same story: the job situation deteriorated drastically between early 2001 and the summer of 2003, and has, at best, improved modestly since then.
 Fourth, apologists try to shift the blame. Officials often claim, falsely, that the 2001 recession began under Bill Clinton, or at least that it was somehow his fault. But even if you attribute the eight-month recession that began in March 2001 to Mr. Clinton -- a very dubious proposition -- job loss during the recession wasn't exceptionally severe. The reason the employment picture looks so bad now is the unprecedented weakness of job growth in the subsequent recovery.
 Nor is it plausible to continue attributing poor economic performance to terrorism, three years after 9/11. Bear in mind that in the 2002 Economic Report of the President, the administration's own economists predicted full recovery by 2004, with payroll employment rising to 138 million, 7 million more than the actual number.
 Finally, many apologists have returned to that old standby: the claim that presidents don't control the economy. But that's not what the administration said when selling its tax policies. Last year's tax cut was officially named the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 -- and administration economists provided a glowing projection of the job growth that would follow the bill's passage. That projection has, needless to say, proved to be wildly overoptimistic. 
 What we've just seen is as clear a test of trickledown economics as we're ever likely to get. Twice, in 2001 and in 2003, the administration insisted that a tax cut heavily tilted toward the affluent was just what the economy needed. Officials brushed aside pleas to give relief instead to lower- and middle-income families, who would be more likely to spend the money, and to cash-strapped state and local governments. Given the actual results -- huge deficits, but minimal job growth -- don't you wish the administration had listened to that advice? 
 Oh, and on a nonpolitical note: even before Friday's grim report on jobs, I was puzzled by Mr. Greenspan's eagerness to start raising interest rates. Now I don't understand his policy at all.

David Brooks is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Labor

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



249 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Trump Hotels Plans to Seek Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, the centerpiece of Donald J. Trump's faltering casino holdings, said last night that it planned to file for bankruptcy protection by the end of September. The company hopes the move will allow it to reorganize under new management and with new financing that will ease its $1.8 billion debt burden.
 Under the terms of the agreement reached with Trump Hotels' bondholders, Mr. Trump will step aside as chief executive and his 56 percent equity stake will be reduced to about 25 percent. For Mr. Trump to hold onto that stake, he will be required to make a series of investments in the company, including a $55 million cash investment and an exchange of Trump Hotels debt that he owns. 
 Mr. Trump will remain as chairman and, in a nod to the marketing muscle retained by the host of the television show ''The Apprentice,'' cede to the recapitalized company ''a perpetual and exclusive worldwide trademark license, royalty free, to use his name and likeness and all related marks and intellectual property rights.''
 The prospective bankruptcy filing is a stunning comedown for a man who helped reignite the gambling boom in Atlantic City about two decades ago and whose name has become synonymous with business savvy, even though his casinos have never been profitable since first going public in 1995 and have been widely criticized by analysts as poorly run.
 Credit Suisse First Boston, the investment bank that has been working on a restructuring of Trump Hotels for several months, plans to invest $345 million in the reorganized company. Trump Hotels said that if all elements of the reorganization fell into place, Trump Hotels' publicly traded debt would drop to about $1.25 billion from $1.8 billion and its interest rates on that debt would be reduced to an annual rate of 7.875 percent from 12 percent. 
 The company said debt restructuring would reduce its annual interest payments by about $110.2 million -- much needed financial breathing room for a company increasingly short on cash and surrounded by better-financed and better-managed competitors. Trump Hotels also said it planned to arrange for up to $100 million in debtor-in-possession financing once the company files for bankruptcy.
 Trump Hotels said it planned to file for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11, which, unlike a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, does not mean the company is going out of business. Rather, a Chapter 11 filing gives a company that still holds potential promise an opportunity to right itself. 
 Trump Hotels said it expected its recapitalization plan to be completed by the first quarter of 2005.
 ''I have had a wonderful longstanding working relationship with CSFB, and I am proud to be able to partner with them,'' Mr. Trump said in a statement last night. ''I look forward to our recapitalized company being a major player in the evolving gaming industry.''
 Under the agreement, one group of Mr. Trump's bondholders would exchange $1.3 billion in debt for about $228.2 million in cash, about $852 million in new debt and about $107 million in the reorganized company's stock. Another group of bondholders would exchange about $406 million in debt for about $56 million in cash and $350 million in new notes. Yet a third group would swap $68.8 million in debt for about $500,000 in cash, $48 million in new notes, and $15.7 million in the reorganized company's stock.
 Trump Hotels recently reported a second-quarter loss of $17.6 million, or 59 cents a share, compared with a loss of $10 million, or 46 cents a share, in the period a year earlier -- one yardstick of just how badly the company has been performing. Moreover, Trump Hotels' cash reserves are shrinking. The company said in its quarterly filing that it has $81.1 million on hand, down from $124.3 million in the first quarter of the year. The company had $106 million in cash on hand at the end of the second quarter last year.
 In an interview last night, Scott C. Butera, executive vice president of Trump Hotels, declined to say exactly when a reorganization agreement was reached with bondholders but said that disclosure of the agreement was made in a timely fashion consistent with regulatory requirements.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); CASINOS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); RESORTS (90%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); TRADEMARKS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); BONDS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Hotels and Motels; Casinos; Bankruptcies; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (96%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts Inc

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (96%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%) Donald Trump; Timothy O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



250 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Job Numbers in an Election Year

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''A Job Picture Painted With Different Brushes'' (Business Day, Aug. 7), you observe that it is possible to reach different conclusions on the same subject depending on the survey used to collect data.
 What is true from either survey is that George W. Bush's presidency has been the worst in terms of job growth in more than 50 years. 
 Your data also show an even more interesting result: for the last 54 years, spanning 14 presidential terms and 11 different presidents, six of the top seven job-growth terms were presided over by Democrats, while Republican presidents were in office for all seven of the lowest job-growth terms.
 Is there a lesson to be learned from this for the working men and women of America?

Peter Limon
Naperville, Ill., Aug. 7, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Peter Limon

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



251 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Job Numbers in an Election Year

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In response to July's tepid payroll numbers, the administration continued to defend its singular focus on tax cuts as the best response to America's employment woes (''Low Numbers, New Problem,'' news analysis, front page, Aug. 7).
 President Bush's tax-cutting agenda has come at the expense of two critical sources of job creation: education and basic research. Instead of working to strengthen our economy's competitiveness, Washington has largely ignored state cutbacks in K-12 and higher education. Likewise, financing for non-defense research faces increased pressure. 
 Such an unbalanced approach to job creation represents yet another example of how ideology has come to replace sound policy making in the Bush administration.

Neil Mehrotra
Brooklyn, Aug. 7, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Taxation; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Neil Mehrota; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004



252 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Much Of Bordeaux Goes Begging

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL; Sylvie Rais contributed reporting from Paris for this article.

DATELINE: BORDEAUX, France 

 BODY:
WITH their elegant gardens in the English style, their placid swans, their manicured lawns and their meticulously trimmed vines spreading to the horizon, the great wine chateaus of Bordeaux are pictures of prosperity. The 2002 vintage has just been bottled, and the small, uneven 2003 vintage, most of it already sold at double the 2002 prices, is maturing in oak barrels.
 But these great estates, most of them members of the prestigious Union des Grands Crus, account for barely 5 percent of Bordeaux's production. For the 95 percent outside this magic circle in what was once the undisputed capital of the wine world, life has grown grim. Their vineyards are in what may be the deepest crisis since the phylloxera aphid devastated Bordeaux's vines a century ago.
 For the French wine industry as a whole, these are tough times. Domestic consumption is down, foreign competition and the weak dollar have battered exports, overproduction is rampant and needed changes are thwarted by obsolete rules. Bordeaux has been hit particularly hard because it is the largest of the country's wine regions and wine is central to its economy. The Bordeaux appellation comprises well over 10,000 wine properties, most of them small -- 20 acres or less -- and many of them in trouble. Privately, industry figures here predict that 600 to 1,000 smaller producers may be forced to close over the next few years. 
 Patrick Tauzin is a small producer in the quiet southernmost reaches of the Bordeaux region. He has never dined with the Rothschilds at Lafite, but he is a Bordeaux winemaker nonetheless. He farms about 88 acres of grapes at St.-Pierre d'Aurillac, 35 miles southeast of the city of Bordeaux. He produces about 16,000 cases a year. He is 44 years old, has a wife and two children and cannot make a living from his wine.
 ''My wife works full time outside our business here,'' he said, ''and I spend hours on the telephone every day with my creditors. Right now, we are scrambling for money.''
 Bordeaux is used to a boom and bust cycle, but the crisis of the past few years has reached staggering proportions.
 ''I've seen growers in tears,'' said Christian Moueix, a prominent winemaker and shipper. ''They will sell their wine at any price, and no one wants it. It's very sad.''
 Mr. Moueix owns the fabled Petrus vineyard in Pomerol and half a dozen other famous Bordeaux chateaus, along with Dominus, a winery in California. But through his family business, Jean-Pierre Moueix, he is also a buyer and shipper of generic Bordeaux. Earlier this year his cellars in Libourne, near St.-Emilion, held some 5 million bottles of wine that was not moving. ''Only by reducing prices 30 to 40 percent were we able to sell any of it,'' he said.
 The abyss between the generic business and the tight, small world of the famous classified growths is vast. ''There are two Bordeaux,'' said Jean-Guillaume Prats, the managing director of the renowned Chateau Cos d'Estournel, in the commune of St.-Estephe. The top chateau owners, he said, ''sold out our 2003's at outrageous prices, while right next door there are people who are not surviving.'' Staring glumly out a window at the chateau's vines stretching down to the muddy Gironde River, he said one case of his wines sold for as much as 100 cases of generic Bordeaux. (In New York, futures for the 2003 Cos are now bringing $165 a bottle.) And even then, he said, ''there is no interest in the generic wine.'' 
 Mr. Tauzin said many young winemakers borrowed to buy vineyard land back in 2000, at peak prices. ''Some of them have huge debts,'' he said. ''They are about to lose everything, including their houses.''
 Three months ago, Mr. Tauzin and other owners of small and average-size vineyards organized to press the government and Bordeaux's main promotional association, the Bordeaux Wine Council, to help them through the crisis. They demanded a guaranteed minimum price for their wine and an easing of government regulations that prevent them from, among other things, blending wines from other regions with their own, adding wood chips for oaky flavor and irrigating. The growers want to be able to use grape names, like merlot and chardonnay, on their wines, as is done in the rest of the world, rather than just the obscure local place names they must use now.
 In July, French officials agreed to most of those demands, but only for the cheapest wines, vins de pays, or country wines. ''We reject this,'' Mr. Tauzin said. ''We are proud of the wines we make, genuine Bordeaux appellation wines, and we want the restrictions lifted for them as well.''
 Smaller producers like Mr. Tauzin are not the only ones seeking to uncomplicate Bordeaux. ''Bordeaux is too rigid, too complex,'' Mr. Moueix said. ''We have 10,000 chateaus, some of them little more than barns, each with two or three wine labels. We have 14 Chateaux Belairs, we have 151 chateaus with Figeac in their name.''
 Bordeaux's wine region is immense. With some 190,000 acres of vineyard land, it is 10 times as large as Burgundy, 3 times as large as Champagne and more than twice the size of the Napa Valley. Even with its serious overproduction, the area under vines in Bordeaux has increased modestly over the years, 1 to 2 percent a year, compared with more than 76 percent over the past five years in Australia, said Sichel, president of Maison Sichel, a major wine shipping firm. But, he added in his annual vintage report, ''the best vineyard land in Bordeaux is already taken, and we cannot continue planting, even at this modest rate.''
 Wine consumption in France, which has been falling slowly but steadily since World War II, dropped a full 5 percent in 2003, government figures show. In the 1960's, the French drank, on average, about 120 liters of wine a year each; last year, the figure was 58. And France has always been Bordeaux's chief market. Fewer than half of the French drink any wine at all and, according to Omnivin, a trade group, fewer and fewer French under 35 show any interest in wine at all, with many drawn to the wide variety of other beverages now available.
 Wine consumption in French restaurants dropped 15 to 20 percent last year, according to another trade group, mostly because of a tough campaign against drinking and driving begun by Nicolas Sarkozy, the finance minister. Stringent laws have also limited advertising and billboard promotions. The industry and its supporters are seeking to circumvent the laws and the driving regulations by trying to have wine classified as a food.
 Overproduction is a worldwide phenomenon that is particularly painful in Bordeaux. When 30,000 acres of vines were pulled out in California, most came from corporate-owned vineyards in the Central Valley. In Bordeaux, much of the overplanting has been by small landholders who depend on their vines for their living. ''It is painful to see those vineyards destroyed,'' said Patrick Maroteaux, owner of Chateau Branaire-Ducru and president of the Union des Grands Crus. ''But there is no choice.''
 Mr. Maroteaux is pessimistic about any quick recovery for Bordeaux. ''It will take us 10 years,'' he predicted.
 While most generic Bordeaux wines stay at home in France, they are not unknown in the United States. Mouton Cadet, probably the best known, is a blended bulk wine bottled and sold under the auspices of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild. It and other generics like it have been overtaken in world markets by inexpensive wines from California and especially Australia. Many people prefer the softer, richer wines from those places and from Chile and South Africa.
 For many years, Bordeaux dictated what wines should taste like, but, led by wine critics, consumers have begun to reject the sharper, more tannic style Bordeaux represents. Growers and shippers say exports of French wines, including Bordeaux, dropped 5 percent in 2003, while exports from the United States rose 17 percent and from Australia 25 percent. Australia edged out France as the principal wine exporter to Britain for the first time last year.
 Bordeaux wine producers who once scoffed at upstart winemakers in the United States and the rest of what they still call the New World look with envy at the marketing skills and aggressiveness of American and Australian wine producers. They talk with awe of the explosion in the American market of the Australian label Yellow Tail, whose sales in the United States have gone from 200,000 cases in 2001 to a projected seven million this year. They cautiously await the appearance of E.&J. Gallo's Red Bicyclette, a brand from the Languedoc region of France; 500,000 cases are to go on sale in the United States this fall.
 While winemakers are pulling up vineyards, both to reduce production and to concentrate on better-quality wines, the Bordeaux Wine Council, which includes both the world-famous chateaus and the independent producers, said in June that its members would voluntarily hold wine off the market in an effort to push up prices for less expensive wines. The volume of the 2004 vintage sold would be cut by up to 35 percent, compared with 2003.
 The unsold wine would be stored until conditions improve, Jean-Louis Trocard, a former president of the wine council, said.
 Why higher prices would help when demand is already low is not clear.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HARD TIMES -- Patrick Tauzin, center, makes wine and fights creditors in St.-Pierre d'Aurillac. (Photo by Frederic Desmesure/Editing, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); WINERIES (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); FAMILY (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); US DOLLAR (71%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); CONSUMPTION (70%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Industry Profiles; Alcoholic Beverages

PERSON: Frank J Prial

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT-PIERRE, SAINT PIERRE & MIQUELON (70%) AQUITAINE, FRANCE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (70%) Bordeaux (France); France

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



253 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Mapuche Indians in Chile Struggle to Take Back Forests

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: TRAIGUEN, Chile 

 BODY:
Before the conquistadors arrived, and even for centuries afterward, the lush, verdant forests of southern Chile belonged to the Mapuche people. Today, though, tree farms stretch in all directions here, property of timber companies that supply lumber to the United States, Japan and Europe.
 But now the Mapuches, complaining of false land titles and damage to the environment and their traditional way of life, are struggling to take back the land they say is still theirs. As their confrontation with corporate interests has grown more violent, Chile's nominally Socialist government has sought to blunt the indigenous movement by invoking a modified version of an antiterrorist law that dates from the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, 1973 to 1990.
 Despite international protests, 18 Mapuche leaders are scheduled to go on trial soon, accused under a statute that prohibits ''generating fear among sectors of the population.'' The charges stem from a series of incidents during the past seven years in which groups of Mapuches have burned forests or farmhouses or destroyed forestry equipment and trucks. 
 ''Clearly, this is a conflict in which some fairly serious crimes have been committed,'' said Sebastian Brett, a representative of Human Rights Watch in Chile. ''But that does not mean you can call the people involved terrorists. These are crimes, not against human life or liberty, but basically against property, and they stem from a wide sense of grievance among the Mapuches that they have illegally been deprived of their lands.''
 To many Mapuches, the current dispute is merely the continuation of a conflict that has existed since the arrival of the conquistadors in the 16th century. Retreating south of the Bio-Bio River, they succeeded not only in fending off Spanish control but also in having their independence formally recognized in treaties, and were only incorporated into the Chilean state in the 1880's as the result of a series of violent military expeditions.
 After that, in a conscious imitation of the American method of dealing with indigenous peoples, Chile put the Mapuches onto reservations so that German, Italian and Swiss colonists could settle in the region. But by the 1920's, policies had changed, and the Mapuches lost title to all but a tiny fragment of their ancestral lands through procedures they now describe as illegal.
 ''From the moment the Chilean state annexed Mapuche territory, and used violence to do so, the rule of law has never existed south of the Bio-Bio,'' said Aucan Huilcaman, a leader of the Council of All Lands, a Mapuche group based in the city of Temuco, south of here. ''The state refuses to recognize that we are a people with rights that were in force even before Chile existed as a nation and which remain in force today.''
 During the past decade, ''the Mapuches have seen this country's economy growing rapidly'' as the result of free market policies that have led to an export boom, said Jose Bengoa, Chile's leading historian of the Mapuche, who account for one million of Chile's 15 million people. ''But they are themselves in a state of misery, with an awareness of their situation that drives them to desperation and exasperation.''
 Though Japanese and Swiss interests are active here in the region that the Mapuches call ''Araucania,'' both of the main forestry companies are Chilean-owned. On land the Mapuches claim is theirs, the firms have planted hundreds of thousands of acres with Monterey pine and eucalyptus trees, species that are not native to the region and that consume large amounts of water and fertilizer.
 ''Many Mapuche communities have risen up and said, 'We don't want any more tree farms here,''' said Alfredo Seguel, a leader of a group of young Mapuche professionals called Konapewman. ''Productive fields have been turned over to a monoculture that hurts other activities, helps destroy the land, employs very few people and pays low wages.''
 Yet the signs of a landscape transformed are everywhere here. Highways with billboards that proclaim, ''If the forest grows, Chile grows; obey the forestry law,'' run for mile after mile past fragrant groves of trees that are uniformly spaced and nearly identical in height.
 Chilean exports of wood to the United States, almost all of which come from this southern region, are about $600 million a year and rising. Though an international campaign led by the conservation group Forest Ethics resulted in the Home Depot chain and other leading wood importers agreeing late last year to revise their purchasing policies, to ''provide for the protection of native forests in Chile,'' some militant Mapuche leaders are not satisfied.
 ''The big companies and the big landowners are usurpers who profit at our expense, and we want them to leave,'' complained Jose Huenchunao, a Mapuche leader in an area east of here who is among the 18 scheduled to go on trial. ''We are a people who have been defrauded, who have exhausted every legal means of attaining redress, and we have the right to recover what was stolen from us, even if that means incorporating violence within our struggle.''
 In an effort to defuse tensions, a special government body, the Commission for Historical Truth and New Treatment, issued a report late last year calling for drastic changes in Chile's treatment of its indigenous people, more than 80 percent of whom are Mapuches. The recommendations included the formal recognition of political and ''territorial'' rights for Indian peoples, as well as efforts to promote their cultural identity.
 President Ricardo Lagos has hailed the document as an effort to ''correct the errors, at times inevitable, that the Chilean state committed in its treatment of ethnicities.'' But neither Mapuche leaders nor forestry interests seem satisfied, and despite Mr. Lagos's promise to push for adoption of the measures, the Chilean Congress has taken no action.
 Some Mapuche leaders, including Mr. Huilcaman, who was a member of the commission, oppose the report because they think it ''a colonialist document'' that does not go far enough. But landowners believe that the self-determination provisions of the plan will encourage Indian uprisings like the one in Chiapas, in Mexico, or even lead to separatist Indian movements like those that have sprung up in neighboring Bolivia, Peru and Ecuador.
 ''Carried to an extreme, this could lead to the dismemberment of the Chilean state,'' said Juan Agustin Figueroa, a former agriculture minister and Supreme Court justice who is a leading spokesman for property holders in this region. ''National unity is a great achievement, won at great cost, and it is folly to talk of granting autonomy to 'Mapuche territory.'''
 Mr. Figueroa's family has owned a 3,000-acre farm here since the 1940's and he said that ''we always had a good neighbor policy with the Mapuches.'' But late in 2001, after what he described as ''first threats and then forest fires, a group of radical Mapuches burned down'' a manor house on the property.
 Though he said he recognized that Mapuche organizations had nothing in common with ''groups like Al Qaeda or those in Iraq,'' Mr. Figueroa argued that use of the antiterrorism statute against them was appropriate on both judicial and political grounds. But it is precisely that two-pronged campaign against the Mapuches that worries their advocates.
 ''In the 1990's, the Mapuche cause had more support among the Chilean population than it does today,'' said Rodrigo Lillo, a lawyer who has defended Mapuche leaders in military tribunals. ''By using the terrorist law, the government has not only succeeded in disarticulating Mapuche groups, it has also robbed them of the moral prestige and sympathy they once enjoyed.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Mapuche Indians carrying lances demonstrated in June against the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Pucon, Chile. The forests in the south once belonged to them, but now they are filled with tree farms supplying lumber to United States, Japan and Europe, and the Mapuches are trying to reclaim them, employing tactics some say verge on terrorism. At left, the aftermath of a fire that destroyed the house of a former minister of agriculture. (Photo by Santiago Llanquin/Associated Press)
 (Photo by El Mercurio)Map of Chile highlighting Traiguen: The Mapuches owned the forests around Traiguen until the 1880's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (90%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); FOREST FIRES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (58%) Forests and Forestry; Mapuche Indians ; International Trade and World Market; Terrorism; Forests and Forestry

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%)

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (78%) Chile

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



254 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Increase in Productivity Slows

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
The productivity of American workers rose at an annual pace of 2.9 percent in the second quarter, the slowest increase since late in 2002, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The rise followed a 3.7 percent rate of increase in the first quarter.
 It was the smallest gain since productivity rose at an annual pace of 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002. Analysts had predicted an even greater drop-off, to around 2 percent, reflecting the notable slowing of economic growth last quarter. 
 Unit labor costs increased at an annual pace of 1.9 percent in the second quarter, the biggest rise in two years, after a 0.3 percent advance in the first quarter.
 Many analysts noted that even though unit labor costs accelerated, the rise for the last 12 months was only 0.2 percent, indicating that wage pressures remained almost nonexistent. ''The fact that unit labor costs remained well contained suggests that the inflation outlook will remain benign,'' said Ron Wexler, a Merrill Lynch economist.
 Productivity, which measures the output of workers for each hour worked, showed weak gains for about two decades until the mid-90's. Since then, the gains have accelerated amid major investments in productivity-enhancing equipment like advanced computer systems.
 But these gains have had a downside in weak job growth as employers were able to increase production without hiring new workers.
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, has said that productivity increases are likely to slow in coming months as employers exhaust their ability to increase output with existing employees and will have to begin hiring.
 Employment growth, which began showing signs of real recovery this spring, has slowed sharply in the last two months. The Labor Department reported Friday that businesses added 32,000 workers to their payrolls last month, far below the 200,000-plus gain economists had been expecting.
 Later this week, the Labor and Commerce Departments will release new figures on initial claims for jobless benefits, retail sales, wholesale prices and trade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (94%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RETAIL SALES (61%) Labor; Productivity

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



255 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Fed Increases Interest Rates Quarter-Point

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve increased short-term interest rates on Tuesday by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 1.5 percent, and strongly implied that it would keep raising rates modestly but regularly in the months ahead.
 Analysts had almost uniformly expected the increase, the second such move since June 30.
 But the Fed, the nation's central bank, was tougher in a statement issued after the meeting than some had thought it would be, and this increased the prospects that policy makers would follow up with an additional rate rise at their next meeting in September, less than six weeks before the election.
 In the statement, the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee acknowledged that economic growth and job creation had both slowed but said that the economy ''nevertheless appears poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion.''
 The Fed also reiterated statements pointing to a series of small rate increases that are widely expected to stretch over the next year or so. And it raised another benchmark interest rate, the discount rate on loans to big banks, also by a quarter-point, to 2.5 percent. 
 ''We read it as pretty hawkish,'' said William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman, Sachs, the Wall Street investment bank. ''There was no hint here that the Fed is inclined to stop. They could have left open an escape hatch, but I don't see any escape hatch here.''
 Though investors often sell stocks when they see interest rates rising, the stock market reacted positively to the Fed's statement that it expects economic growth to rebound soon. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broad measure of the performance of large stocks, rose 1.3 percent yesterday, as did the Dow Jones industrial average, which advanced just over 130 points, to 9,944.67. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index closed up 1.9 percent, at 1,808.70.
 Investors appear not only to have been encouraged by the Federal Reserve's positive outlook on the economy but may have been reassured that policy makers demonstrated steadiness rather than anxiety in carrying out their plans.
 ''The markets are more optimistic because they are reflecting the optimism of the Fed's economic forecast,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and president of Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm in St. Louis. 
 Fed officials, after making clear their intention to start raising interest rates, have been watching as economic growth and job creation have slowed unexpectedly over the last three months, partly because rising gasoline prices have forced consumers to spend less on other things and partly because the stimulus effect of home refinancing and tax cuts has begun to ebb.
 Economic growth slowed to a 3 percent annual pace in the second quarter of this year, down from a 4.5 percent pace in the first quarter, and the surge in job creation that accelerated last spring all but came to a halt in July. 
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, predicted last month that the economy's ''soft patch'' would prove temporary and said that the expansion was still ''self-sustaining'' -- a signal that policy makers intended to adhere to their goal of gradually raising rates from the lowest levels since the late 1950's.
 In starting to raise rates now, even in the face of weak job growth and only modest price increases, the Fed seems intent on nipping any threat of inflation before it can flower.
 At 1.5 percent, the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks is below the rate of inflation, putting the ''real'' rate of such borrowing below zero. Mr. Greenspan has warned for months that interest rates are too low to be sustainable, because the flood of cheap money will eventually provoke a cycle of rising prices. But the Fed did not actually reverse its easy monetary policies until the economy had begun to weaken.
 Fed officials may have little room for maneuver. Despite signs of sluggish growth, consumer prices are climbing faster than the central bankers would like to see, and the cost of oil, which has contributed to previous rounds of inflation, has surged. And even though wages have been lagging behind prices, total labor costs are rising, in large part because of higher health care costs. 
 On Tuesday, hours before the Fed announced its decision, the Labor Department reported that productivity growth slowed to 2.9 percent in the three months from April through June, the slowest pace in a quarter since late 2002. Unit labor costs, the cost of labor for a given amount of production, climbed at an annual pace of 1.9 percent.
 Fed officials have closely watched labor costs, which they regard as one of the most important indicators of a fundamental rise in inflation.
 The big question ahead is oil prices, which have climbed more than 30 percent this year and briefly touched a record of $45.02 a barrel on Tuesday before easing back to settle in New York at $44.52. 
 The Fed attributes much of the blame for the recent economic slowdown to the rise in oil prices, as do many private economists. And its optimistic outlook is based in part on the assumption that crude oil prices will decline to more typical levels.
 Mr. Greenspan has studied the oil markets for decades, to the point of being able to recite from memory the details of major oil fields in the Persian Gulf region. Yet he and other top Fed officials argue that oil price increases still fall into the category of transitory events. 
 Several analysts said Fed policy makers could pause in their rate increases at their meeting in September, if the next rounds of data on consumer spending and business investment were weaker than expected. 
 ''We honestly believe that the Fed is unsure as to whether the economic glass is half-full or half-empty,'' wrote Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research, who predicted that the Fed would wait until after the presidential election to raise rates again. ''The economy is undoubtedly on a prosperous path; it's just that some unforeseen obstacles have surfaced in recent weeks.''
 But many investors took a different view. If the Fed had wanted to hint at the possibility of slower rate increases, this line of reasoning went, it could have modified its statement to allow for the possibility of a change in its stance if growth or employment stalled. 
 Instead, it emphasized that its monetary policy remains ''accommodative,'' meaning one that is based on cheap money, even after the latest rate increase. And though the Fed said it would still adjust its policy in response to changes in economic prospects, it said it would do so to fulfill its obligations to maintain price stability, and it remained silent about responding to slumping growth or employment.
 Richard Berner, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley, said the Federal Reserve would ultimately chart its course on the basis of the economic data in the next few months. But nothing it has seen in the latest reports of weakness has yet swayed it from its intended course.
 ''There is no change in the game plan,'' Mr. Berner said. ''The communication process is far from perfect, but people from Wall Street to Main Street should be getting the same message.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bond traders at the Chicago Board of Trade signaling yesterday as the Federal Reserve announced a quarter-point increase in interest rates. (Photo by John Zich/Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



256 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

U.S. Troops Fight Rebels In Najaf and Baghdad
American troops fought simultaneous battles with rebel Shiite militiamen in Najaf and Sadr City. American commanders appeared to have deferred a decision to mount all-out assaults while weighing the consequences for their wider aim of bringing stability to Iraq. A1

Sudan Said to Seize Critics
A human rights group accused the Sudanese authorities of rounding up scores of people in the conflict-torn Darfur region because they had spoken to visiting officials about the dire situation there. A5

Japan Nuclear Plant Faulted
A section of steam pipe that blew out and killed four workers at a Japanese nuclear power plant had not been inspected in 28 years. A6

Libya to Pay More Victims
Libya agreed to pay $35 million to victims of a bombing at a Berlin disco nearly two decades ago, taking another step to rebuild relations with the West. A6

Chirac Condemns Desecrations
President Jacques Chirac condemned the desecration of 60 Jewish graves in the city of Lyon, the latest in a wave of attacks on Jewish and Muslim cemeteries in France. A7

Terror Suspect Retried
A German court began a retrial of Mounir el-Motassadeq, the only person convicted to date for involvement in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, with the disclosure that the United States will for the first time share evidence about the plot. A12

Chalabi to Give Defense
Ahmad Chalabi, the former Iraqi exile leader who faces criminal charges in his homeland, said he would return to Iraq to defend himself against what he denounced as an American-influenced attempt to prevent him from playing a political role there. A10

NATIONAL A13-17

Bush Nominates Lawmaker To Lead the C.I.A.
President Bush nominated Representative Porter J. Goss, the longtime chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, to lead the Central Intelligence Agency at a moment of heated debate about the agency's shortcomings. A1

More Power for Border Patrol
The Department of Homeland Security plans to give border patrol agents sweeping new powers to deport illegal aliens from the frontiers with Mexico and Canada. A1

The federal authorities are investigating an illegal immigrant from Pakistan found with videotapes of downtown buildings and transit systems in four Southern states and of a dam in Texas. A12

Suit Filed Against Bryant
The woman who has accused Kobe Bryant of rape sued him for monetary damages, providing a sharp twist to the criminal trial. A13

Vermont to Sue F.D.A.
Vermont will become the first state to sue the Food and Drug Administration for rejecting a plan to import prescription drugs from Canada, the state's governor and attorney general said. A13

Suspect's Lover Takes Stand
Amber Frey, the onetime mistress of Scott Peterson, testified that he romanced her with gifts in the weeks leading to the disappearance of his wife, Laci. A17

Faults Cited in Medicare Law
A survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation suggests that the number of Medicare beneficiaries with negative views of the new prescription drug law far exceeds the number with positive views. A17

I.R.S. Widens Charity Inquiry
The Internal Revenue Service said it had broadened its inquiry into the compensation practices and policies of nonprofit organizations. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Fire and Police Unions Hint at Convention Strikes
Officials of New York City's firefighter and police unions said they would not rule out strikes or other work stoppages during the Republican National Convention, raising the stakes in their battles for new contracts. B1

Organizers of the largest protest planned for the convention backed out of an agreement with the city to rally along the West Side Highway, and said they would push to hold the event in Central Park. B1

Bail Denied in Fake Plot Case
A federal judge denied bail for two men from Albany charged in a fake plot set up by federal investigators to assassinate a Pakistani diplomat. B5

EDUCATION B7

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Bombings Rattle Olympians
Two small bombs thought to be the work of Kurdish separatists exploded seven miles from the United States men's Olympic basketball team's hotel in Istanbul, killing two people, wounding 11 and unnerving the players and their families. The team went on to beat Turkey, 80-68. D1

DINING IN F1-12

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES C13

David Raksin
A movie and television score composer remembered as the author of the haunting theme for the 1944 movie, ''Laura,'' he was 92. C13

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Fed Raises Benchmark Rate
The Federal Reserve raised a key short-term interest rate by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 1.5 percent, and it implied that it would keep raising rates modestly but regularly in the months ahead. A1

Caution From Cisco Chief
Cisco Systems posted solid quarterly earnings in line with Wall Street expectations. But John T. Chambers, the company's chief executive, suggested that economic conditions remain uncertain. C1

Google Proceeds Toward Offer
Google said it would end the registration period for its widely anticipated initial public offering by early Friday and start the bidding ''soon thereafter,'' defying those who had predicted the company might postpone the offer. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Sidestepping reform at the C.I.A.; journalists face jail time; make mine rainwater; three lawyers in a room.

Column: Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E9
TV Listings E10
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VANDALISM (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (86%); INSPECTIONS (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); DAMAGES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); CEMETERIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); GOVERNORS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (66%); KOBE BRYANT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LYON, FRANCE (55%) UNITED STATES (98%); SUDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



257 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Signs Environment Bill, but Environmentalists Stay Away

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

DATELINE: WANAQUE, N.J., Aug 10. 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey signed legislation on Tuesday that will protect more than 400,000 acres of land as well as drinking water for more than 5.4 million state residents. 
 While Mr. McGreevey heralded the signing as an important day for the state's environmental future, most of New Jersey's prominent environmental groups did not attend the bill signing, choosing to hold their own event to criticize the governor for approving a second bill that will expedite development throughout the state. 
 At the urging of state environmental groups, Mr. McGreevey spent the last year working on the Highlands water protection and planning act, which was approved by the Legislature in June. But Mr. McGreevey lost favor with the groups a week later when the Legislature approved a hastily prepared fast-track development bill. 
 Now, more than 90 environmental groups throughout the state that once praised Mr. McGreevey as one of the state's most environmentally friendly governors have banded together and are preparing to file a lawsuit to block the fast-track legislation. 
 ''I am saddened and disconcerted not to be able to attend the Highlands bill signing,'' said Marie Curtis, executive director of the New Jersey Environmental Lobby. ''Disconcerted because what is given with the Highlands bill is taken away with the fast-track law.''
 The Highlands bill will prevent construction within 300 feet of lakes, streams and all other bodies of water, thus protecting drinking-water sources. The law will also restrict construction on steep slopes and limit the construction of new water and sewer lines in the Highlands region, and will ban new development in wooded areas.
 The New Jersey Highlands is a 1,000-square-mile area in northwestern New Jersey that encompasses parts of Bergen, Hunterdon, Morris, Passaic, Somerset, Sussex and Warren Counties. Approximately 5.4 million people in New Jersey receive their water from the Highlands region.
 The fast-track law will expedite the environmental permit process in about one-third of the state that has been deemed suitable for development. State officials will have 45 days to review building applications and another 45 days to grant or deny permits. Under the measure, an application would be approved if the state did not seek additional information. The law also establishes a state ombudsman, who will serve as an advocate for builders, to oversee state growth.
 Critics say the law will harm the environment by removing local oversight and allowing potentially harmful construction to move ahead without proper studies.
 ''This law is basically a selling-out of 30 years of environmental protection in New Jersey,'' said Jeff Tittel, the executive director of the New Jersey Sierra Club, at a news conference in an abandoned parking lot less than a mile from where Mr. McGreevey signed the law. ''Fast-track is about paving over the rest of New Jersey,'' he added.
 David S. Pringle, the campaign director of the New Jersey Environmental Federation, said: ''It is unfortunate that such a great initiative has the dark cloud of fast-track hanging over it.''
 A short time later, Mr. McGreevey, smiling broadly stood at the top of the Wanaque Reservoir Dam, flanked by his predecessors Brendan T. Byrne and Jim Florio, members of his cabinet, local officials and Girl Scouts. He had no criticism for environmentalists and would not comment on their absence.
 ''This is a great day to celebrate,'' he said. ''We took a discernible step forward and we need to understand, for all of us as New Jerseyans -- Republicans and Democrats -- we did something good today. Obviously this isn't perfection, but it is pretty darn good and this is a pretty significant achievement.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WATER QUALITY (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (69%); TRENDS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%); LITIGATION (52%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Law and Legislation; Area Planning and Renewal; Water; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: John Holl; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey; Highlands Region (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



258 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM THE MIDDLE EAST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Political Reform? See the Grim Reaper

BYLINE: By Neil MacFarquhar

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Conducting his first news conference, Egypt's new tourism minister deeply tanned, his salt and pepper fringe neatly trimmed, an expensive blue silk tie patterned with giraffes sharply knotted at his throat -- tried, one day in July, to duck a question about whether reform here should include sweeping changes like direct presidential elections. 
 Before Washington started talking about political reform in the Middle East, even raising the topic of such elections was considered taboo because it implied criticism of the aging president, Hosni Mubarak, for clinging to the job for 23 years and showing no signs of bowing out gracefully. 
 Yet the climate has shifted, however slightly, and these days the subject emerges occasionally, to the evident consternation of technocrats like the tourism minister, Ahmed el-Maghraby, a 49-year-old tycoon. 
 ''I am not a political minister,'' said Mr. Maghraby, whose family interests include the largest hotel management group in the country, a famous chain of eyeglass stores and Egypt's most renowned brand of jam. ''Although my political education is not yet fully completed, I intend to be politically indoctrinated in the shortest possible time and have ready answers for political questions.'' 
 He then proved that the aforementioned education had, in fact, started, by echoing remarks from his new boss about how Egypt must avoid changing too fast lest it hit sudden turbulence. 
 Political change in the Middle East might have better prospects of gaining traction in Egypt than say, Iraq, regional analysts believe, because the necessary institutions have long existed, albeit now in anemic form. The generally unspoken subtext -- which Al Masri al Yom, a new independent daily launched in June actually had the gumption to say in print -- is that all important decisions go back to Mr. Mubarak. So any political reform will almost certainly be confined to the margins as long as he remains president. 
 Pessimists in Egypt (some say realists) look around and see a political system barely altered since the 1952 revolution, when a group of army officers tossed out the monarchy and asphyxiated the democratic system slowly emerging from Britain's colonial tutelage. President Gamal Abdel Nasser was a military autocrat, followed by another, Anwar el-Sadat, followed by a third, Mr. Mubarak, now 76. 
 Until the Constitution that granted the presidency such sweeping powers is replaced and longstanding emergency laws are rescinded, the pessimists say, there is no hope for Egypt to join the club of truly free countries. 
 Optimists spy the glimmerings of change, however, pushed not least by the fact that Mr. Mubarak's handsome, 40-year-old son, Gamal, harbors presidential ambitions. Given his absence of a military background, the sole route left open is to cast himself as a reformer. Yet, having nothing more than a shadowy, ill-defined presence within the ruling party, he has no real record that can be assessed and it remains unclear how he might change Egypt. 
 The most public test of his abilities started in July with the naming of a new cabinet. Just 14 of the 34 ministers were changed and no one expects any radical break with the past. But two party dinosaurs -- the minister of information and the minister of agriculture, each in their posts for more than two decades -- were replaced. More important, some seven members of Gamal's kitchen cabinet, the policy committee of the almost-a-monopoly National Democratic Party, were awarded ministries concentrated in economic portfolios. 
 Political handicappers say that the appointments were made literally in the kitchen of the Mubarak household, with Gamal and his mother pushing the president to act to salvage a legacy fading in the face of Egypt's political and economic torpor. (Foreign leaders who visit Mr. Mubarak say he appears in good health, but since what was announced as back surgery in Germany in June, he seems somewhat tired, often greeting visiting leaders at his house.) 
 After any important decision is announced, little of the reasoning behind it escapes from that home kitchen, but occasional hints get sprinkled onto the pages of the daily newspaper Al Ahram, the main government voice. 
 A column signed by the editor in chief earlier this year suggested that changing the Constitution -- code for directly electing the president -- remains problematic, but allowing a few new political parties to express the ideas of a new generation seems a splendid notion. 
 The men, no longer young, who have been sitting in dilapidated, slightly grimy Cairo offices for a decade or so, dreaming about finally getting a party license, are itchy with anticipation. One was so thrilled that seven months later he still carries a copy of the column in his briefcase. 
 Their optimism was slightly tempered in July, however, when the committee that must approve all political parties -- yes, the government chooses its own opposition -- rejected the application of Al Ghad (Tomorrow), a liberal party. But political activists note that in recent memory only one new party made it past the committee. The other 16 or so were granted licenses by a special appeals court. Needless to say, no existing party represents any serious challenge to the government. 
 Actually, the three main groups that are renewing their requests for a party license this year reflect a certain peculiarity of Egyptian politics. Only the grave forces retirement. 
 So the new groups are mostly offshoots of the old, run by men who were young party Turks in the 1970's and now find themselves in their late 40's or 50's still squirming under the instructions of their elders. 
 The government decisions on allowing two of the parties -- Karama, a Nasserite offshoot, and Wasat, a moderate group of Muslims and Coptic Christians -- are due in September. Leaders of both hope that this time around Egypt's desire to be seen carrying out even the most timid political reforms will produce a different outcome. 
 ''In our first attempt we were facing a wall which we knew we couldn't move,'' says Hamdeen Sabahy, a boyish, 50-year-old member of the People's Assembly, Egypt's rubber-stamp Parliament, and a leader of the effort to form the Karama Party. ''This time we feel we are facing a closed door that if we push enough, may open. A door is better than a wall.''
 Still, behind that door they know stands the apparently immovable presence of Mr. Mubarak, expected to seek a fifth, unopposed presidential term next year. Washington, by raising the issue of wider public participation, has given some greater latitude to the discussion of change, activists note, but the unruliness in Iraq provides a certain breathing space for autocrats, a sense that business as usual can endure.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cairo in 1999, when Hosni Mubarak won his fourth term as Egypt's president. Now he's expected to run for a fifth. (Photo by Marwan Naamani/Agence France-Presse)
 Gamal Mubarak, 40, the president's son, in January 2003. He harbors ambitions. (Photo by Amr Nabil/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); ARMIES (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (53%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Constitutions; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (90%) Hosni (Pres) Mubarak; Gamal Mubarak; Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) EGYPT (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Egypt; Egypt

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



259 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; OLYMPICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Russians' Expectations Are Still High

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: PODOLSK, Russia, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
As she prepared to swing the wire and ball of the hammer throw, Yelena Konevstova gestured to the tattered backstop where she stood and warned: ''You better not stand here. There are holes in the net.''
 She swung the hammer around her head before whirling and hurling it toward her trainer on the far side of a weedy lot, where broken sticks marked her previous efforts. This field, like most of the buildings here at the Podolsk Sportbaza, one of Russia's principal Olympic training centers, just south of Moscow, shows the disrepair typical of post-Soviet Russia and its once-vaunted state sports machine. 
 Yet when the 2004 Games begin in Athens and the medals are counted, Russia is almost certain to be one of the top teams in the standing. It has remained there despite the dissolution of the Soviet Union and more than a decade of economic and social upheaval. 
 Senior officials -- not only in the sports world but also in the government -- confidently predict that Russia will match the 32 gold and 88 medals over all that its athletes won in the 2000 Sydney Olympics, second to only the United States' 40 gold and 97 over all. There are even brash predictions that Russia will surpass the United States, and every other team.
 ''We are very ambitious, like the Americans, the Chinese, the Germans,'' said Vyacheslav Fetisov, who took over the state sports committee, now known as the Agency for Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, in 2002. Before that, he spent 14 seasons as a player and coach in the National Hockey League, mostly with the Devils.
 It may be too soon to declare the return of a Soviet-like machine, which was created and lavishly supported during the cold war to demonstrate the supremacy of the Soviet system. But renewed attention and money from the country's most prominent sports patron, President Vladimir V. Putin, has rekindled Russia's Olympic aspirations. Federal and city officials are even expressing hope that a strong performance will bolster Moscow's campaign to be the host city for the 2012 Summer Games.
 The Olympic team has once again become a vehicle for the country's national pride, still deeply conflicted after nearly 13 years of post-Soviet transition.
 The government sent off the team with official farewell ceremonies last week in Red Square and in Victory Park in Moscow, with the Russian Orthodox Church even dispatching an icon of St. George with them to Athens.
 To sweeten the incentive, the government has also promised tax-free bonuses, of $50,000 for gold medalists, $20,000 for silver and $10,000 for bronze. They are not as lucrative as the array of benefits lavished on Soviet champions, but they are staggering sums in a country where the average annual income remains less than $3,000.
 The 467 Russian athletes headed to Athens are widely considered the strongest national team since 1992, when Russia participated in Barcelona, Spain, as part of a unified team of former Soviet republics. That team that topped the medal standing with 45 gold and 111 medals over all.
 With athletes from Ukraine, Belarus and other former republics having left for their own national teams, and with still more departing for the United States and Europe, Russia dropped to third over all in Atlanta in 1996 before bouncing back in Sydney, Australia. In Athens, the Russians are expected to contend not only in the country's traditional strengths, like gymnastics, but also in sports in which they have recently fared poorly, like track and field and swimming.
 ''We are going to tear them apart,'' Svetlana Krivelyova, the gold medalist in women's shot-put in Barcelona, said after finishing a late-afternoon workout here.
 Krivelyova, who finished 10th in Atlanta and 4th in Sydney, has been in competition long enough to have benefited from the Soviet Union's elaborate state network of sports schools and training centers, which she credits for her longevity in the sport.
 She also experienced the system's decay in the 1990's, when the state money evaporated. For an athlete, especially an Olympian, she said, things are worse today than before, but some of the national enthusiasm has returned.
 ''Of course, compared to the American camps, our facilities are worse,'' she said. ''But there is a slogan in Russian, 'The worse, the better.'''
 The new attention on Olympic sports in Russia reflects the country's comparative stability and wealth after the chaos of the 1990's. Russia endured a financial crisis in 1998 that left the government struggling to pay for wages and pensions, let alone sports programs. It also reflects the personality of Putin, who carefully cultivates his public image as a sportsman (judo and skiing) and has often urged Russians to become healthier and more fit.
 Since Fetisov took over the sports agency, Putin's government has tripled spending on sports, to roughly $200 million. The money, Fetisov said, has gone to new facilities, sports clubs and training programs across Russia, and in many places it was their first infusion of cash since Soviet times.
 The national Olympic committee and the federations representing each sport have also turned to Russia's new companies for sponsorship, similar to what is done in the United States. Sponsors include the country's biggest companies, like Aeroflot, Lukoil, Sberbank and Gazprom. In the last two years, Putin has also paid 3,000 Olympic athletes a monthly stipend of $500; those interviewed here called it little more than subsistence, but welcome nonetheless.
 Fetisov, in an interview in his office inside a partly crumbling and partly restored 18th-century mansion in Moscow, said Russia still had a long way to go. ''We don't have enough swimming pools,'' he said, adding that the country's pool of talent has never really dried up. ''We're still producing young, talented athletes.''
 The distance the Soviet machine has fallen, and the distance the new Russian machine has to go, is evident at Podolsk Sportbaza, or Podolsk Sports Base. A former country estate, the base was a hospital during World War II before the Soviet Union turned it into one of its Olympic training camps in 1952.
 Athletes and coaches praised its location, nestled in a birch forest 20 miles south of Moscow's outer ring, for its tranquility and fresh air, but some high schools in the United States have better facilities.
 The running track has a new surface, but it is surrounded by rusted bleachers and twisted fences. The stucco of every building is crumbling. Much of the grounds is overgrown with grass and weeds.
 Still, with the opening ceremony only days away, 280 athletes and coaches from track and field, weight lifting, wrestling, and men's and women's judo have filled it for a last round of training. The government is paying the tab of $30 a day per person for room and board.
 ''We do not need much,'' said Gogi Koguashvili, a native Georgian and naturalized Russian who won a bronze medal in Greco-Roman wrestling in 1992. ''We need a room, something to eat and a place to wrestle.''
 When state support of sports withered in the 1990's, he said, the result was felt in many ways, including a dearth of coaches and even young prospects to serve as sparring partners.
 ''Nobody wanted to take care of sports then,'' he said. ''It was a very difficult time.''
 The state, though, gave him an apartment in Moscow, among the few benefits the new Russia could offer its citizens. And like many athletes at the time, he made enough of a living to allow him to devote his time to training. He won five world championships in the light-heavyweight division from 1993 to 1999.
 In his case, money came from unofficial sponsors, which he declined to identify, except to say that they were friends and other fans of the sport. That is now supplemented by Putin's grant of $500.
 ''At this moment, I work only at sport,'' he said. ''I do not have to worry about money.''
 Aleksandr Karelin, the superheavyweight Olympic and world champion wrestler -- who lost to the Rulon Gardner of the United States in Sydney in one of the sport's greatest upsets -- said in an interview that the core of the old system remained in place despite all the changes Russia has gone through. He cited the training methods, the coaches and ultimately the desire to perform on behalf of the country.
 Karelin, revered in Soviet and now Russian sports history, was elected to the country's lower house of parliament last year as a member of United Russia, the pro-Putin political party that has sought to revive aspects of the country's Soviet past.
 ''A lot has changed,'' Karelin said outside the wrestling team's evening training session on Monday, ''but not the spirit of the team. We all represent Russians' hopes. Every time, we have to give them reason to be proud.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Aleksandr Karelin, right, meeting with another champion wrestler, Varteres Samurgashev, at the training facility in Podolsk, Russia. (Photo by Sergei Kivrin for The New York Times)
During a ceremony at St. George Cathedral in Moscow on Thursday, the Russian Orthodox Church gave the Olympic team an icon of St. George to take to Athens. (Photo by Alexander Zemlianichenko/Associated Press)(pg. D1)
 Members of Russia's synchronized swimming team receiving farewell wishes at a send-off ceremony in Red Square in Moscow on Friday. (Photo by Sergei Kivrin for The New York Times)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (75%); COLD WAR (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICS (61%); CITIES (61%); RELIGION (60%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Politics and Government

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%) Steven Lee Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



260 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Health Plan That Cuts Costs Raises Doctors' Ire

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

DATELINE: BELLINGHAM, Wash. 

 BODY:
Elbert Littlefield, 76 and seriously ill with diabetes and congestive heart failure, had all but given up trying to take care of himself. 
 With three doctors and with 24 pills in the morning and 14 at night, he was never sure if he had taken his medications correctly and could not even list what they were. He was repeatedly rushed to the emergency room and asked for his diagnoses and a list of his medications, though, he said, ''there was no way in the world I could remember.''
 Now all that has changed through an innovative program that has lowered costs by, among other things, assigning nurses and creating electronic records for some patients in Bellingham and surrounding Whatcom County, in northwest Washington. 
 With a nurse's help, Mr. Littlefield, of Lynden, Wash., has learned to follow instructions and take his medications properly. And his record is in a computer file, so when he sees a new doctor or goes to the emergency room, he no longer has to try to remember diagnoses or the names of drugs he cannot even pronounce. 
 ''All I have to tell them is that I'm on the shared care plan,'' Mr. Littlefield said, referring to the name of the electronic record. ''There's no more questions asked.''
 But there is a catch. When, as with the Whatcom County program, medical care is improved, and money saved, there are winners: in this case, insurers, including Medicare, which could save millions, and pharmaceutical companies. And there are losers: general practitioners and hospitals, with each doctor standing to lose at least $2,000 a year, according to projections, and some doctors reporting that their costs are already much higher.
 The program, which is considered a model for how health care can be improved, so far involves patients with just two diseases: diabetes and congestive heart failure. And though the organizers hoped to get doctors excited enough to make financial sacrifices to join, they were not entirely successful. Many did enlist, but one group of 60 doctors, the Madrona Medical Group of Bellingham, took part in the planning but chose not to participate in the program.
 ''We were seduced by the concept,'' said Dr. Erick Laine, Madrona's chief executive. ''But it doesn't work.'' 
 The doctors were expected to purchase electronic medical records systems and to provide services that substituted for individual doctor visits, like e-mailing with patients.
 The problem, said Dr. David Reuben, chief of the geriatrics division at the University of California, Los Angeles, medical school, is that ''we have a health care financing system where the incentives are totally misaligned.'' 
 ''Let's say you do a really good job of keeping somebody out of the hospital,'' Dr. Reuben said. ''Or let's say you spare someone a physician's visit. You save the system money, but nobody benefits from the savings.''
 Or as Dr. Laine said: ''The concern we had was that in a system that requires substantial investment, the benefits that accrue to the system need to accrue back to those making the investment. Unless that happens, the system is not credible and it is not sustainable.'' 
 His reaction, said Dr. Donald M. Berwick, president and chief executive of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, a nonprofit group in Newton, Mass., illustrates why overhauling health care is so difficult in the United States. 
 ''We could get the same or better results with half the money, but the flows of money do not allow you to find the waste and reinvest it,'' said Dr. Berwick, who is also a co-director of Pursuing Perfection, a program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The foundation made a $1.9 million, three-year grant that helped pay for the Whatcom County project's expenses, like training.
 Yet the project has attracted attention.
 ''I think it's very promising,'' said Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which oversees Medicare. 
 Medicare is starting studies along similar lines, he said. But he is aware of the economic conundrums.
 ''Often financial incentives are set up to reward more office visits and more complications,'' Dr. McClellan said. ''We will have a lot easier time if we can improve our financial incentives.''
 The program that helped Mr. Littlefield shows what is possible, Dr. McClellan said. ''For people who doubt that these kinds of care improvement programs can have an impact on health care costs, this is pretty convincing evidence that they can.''
 The Whatcom County project began in 2001, focusing on chronic illnesses, which account for more than 75 percent of all medical expenses in the nation. The planners asked patients to join the conversation.
 ''That changed everything,'' said Dr. Marc Pierson, the project executive and an administrator at PeaceHealth St. Joseph Hospital in Bellingham.
 They heard from people like Rebecca Bryson, a 47-year-old Bellingham resident with congestive heart failure and diabetes. She saw 14 doctors and took 42 medications.
 Ms. Bryson said that the burden was on her to keep everyone informed of her medications and complications, and that she always worried she had forgotten something.
 Just getting a doctor's appointment could be an effort.
 Her lungs would be filling with fluid, she would feel as if she were drowning, and she would have to call her doctor's office and tell the receptionist to leave a note for the nurse. It may take an hour, it may take a day or more for the nurse to call. Then she had to persuade the nurse that she needed to see a doctor.
 The solutions, which transformed Ms. Bryson's life, are the shared care plan and help from a nurse, a clinical care specialist. 
 Under the shared care plan, doctors and patients and their families have access to the computerized medical records. Patients can note changes in their reactions to medications, for instance, and every doctor can see the updated information.
 The highly knowledgeable clinical care specialists serve as personal assistants to severely ill patients, going with them to doctors' offices, being available by cellphone to answer questions and teaching them to manage their diseases.
 Their efforts have reduced doctor visits and medical complications. Patients with diabetes have lower glucose levels; those with congestive heart failure have remained stable rather than getting worse. And money is saved.
 For example, in just two months, in January and February, the two nurses, seeing 70 patients, reported seven incidents in which they prevented costly options like calls to 911, emergency room visits and emergency visits to a doctor's office. 
 Ms. Bryson said her clinical care specialist, Nancy Stothart, helped her avoid doctor visits through simple steps like taking her blood pressure. Ms. Stothart also recognized serious problems when Ms. Bryson did not. Once it was severe dehydration; another time it was a pacemaker wire that had been dislodged.
 ''Nancy saved my life -- twice,'' Ms. Bryson said.
 Mr. Littlefield was one of those needy patients who ended up with a clinical care specialist because doctors were at their wits' end. These patients, the doctors said, were simply not following instructions.
 Connie Golas, the specialist who worked with Mr. Littlefield, said doctors sometimes do not realize the patients' problems. It is not that the patients refused to follow instructions; it is that they did not know how.
 Ms. Golas sees this, for example, when she visits patients and asks to look at their medications. 
 ''They bring out this box or basket or shoebox and they pull out all these medications,'' Ms. Golas said. ''They pull out one -- it was from two years ago. They say, 'I guess I shouldn't be taking this now.'''
 But Ms. Golas also understands the doctor's perspective. When patients say they cannot make a doctor understand, it may be that they did not really explain what was wrong. 
 ''A seasoned nurse or receptionist will screen the pile of messages,'' Ms. Golas said. ''If the patient doesn't know how to communicate, if he says, 'Well, I'm coughing a little more than usual,' instead of 'I can't breathe and have to sit up at night,' then that message may be put in among the calls about the snotty noses. The patient may not get a call for three days.''
 Doctors often have no idea that happens, said Dr. Bertha Safford, a family care physician in Ferndale, Wash., whose practice is part of a 41-doctor group.
 ''We recently had a meeting with clinical care specialists and patients,'' Dr. Safford said. ''I was just horrified to hear their tales, and I took it back to the doctors. I told them, 'We have a serious problem. Patients can't get through.' The doctors said, 'Not at my office.' Every single doctor said that.''
 Dr. Safford was quick to sign on to the Whatcom County program. 
 She said she knew what would help her patients with chronic diseases: she and her colleagues ought to keep in contact with patients, they ought to send reminder notices about checkups and return visits if test results indicate a problem.
 ''It takes a whole different mind-set that it is our responsibility to do callbacks and reminders and to organize their care,'' Dr. Safford said.
 ''Patients rarely come in with a pure problem in primary care,'' she added. ''It is the rare patient who comes in and says, 'I'm here to follow up on diabetes.' Instead, there is a new skin rash or a worry about arthritis. And then, 'Oh, by the way, I've got diabetes.' The chart's this thick and by the time I deal with all of their immediate concerns, the chronic condition is last on the list and it's very easy to forget things.''
 But participating in the program is costing each doctor in the group $500 a month for four years for the electronic medical record system. Other innovations, like group office visits and e-mailing with patients, are poorly compensated, if at all. Nor are the follow-up calls by a nurse checking on patients when a doctor changes a medication or recommends a different regimen. 
 ''I've been in practice for 25 years and I've made less money this year than I ever did before,'' Dr. Safford said.
 But, she said, she will not return to her old ways when the county's grant ends this year and will accept less income if she has to. ''We made the culture change and there's no going back,'' Dr. Safford said. ''It changes everything. I look at this as a wonderful blessing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elbert Littlefield was confused about his medication before he received help through a new program.
 Dr. Bertha Safford signed onto the Whatcom County project even though it meant less income. (Photographs by Gary Settle for The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); DIABETES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); MEDICARE (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); INSURANCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Medicine and Health; Nursing and Nurses; Finances; Computers and the Internet; Diabetes; Heart; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Doctors; Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Grants (Corporate and Foundation)

ORGANIZATION: Johnson, Robert Wood, Foundation

PERSON: Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Whatcom County (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



261 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: A Neglected Neighborhood Builds Itself a Village

BYLINE: By MORRIS NEWMAN

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
Fruitvale Village may startle some visitors who see it for the first time from the platform of the BART train station. From that vantage, the festive ''village'' looks very much like an upscale suburban shopping center, set incongruously amid the brick buildings and dilapidated wooden houses of a once-fearsome neighborhood. 
 Beyond its good looks, the $60 million mixed-use development is also playing a catalytic role in one of the poorest neighborhoods of this Bay Area city, directly east of San Francisco.
 Even before it was completed in May, Fruitvale Village -- with 45,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space, a nonprofit clinic, a child-care center for 300 children, a public library, 47 apartments for both low-income and market-rate renters and 45,000 square feet of office space -- had already primed a depressed and neglected neighborhood for a blast of new development, according to Ignacio De La Fuente, the Oakland city councilman who represents the area. 
 ''The village is already a success,'' said the councilman, who has championed the project in the neighborhood known locally as the Fruitvale. 
 City officials also report that the Fruitvale, a densely populated, largely Latino neighborhood of 53,000 people amid a city of 400,000 residents, now produces the second-highest level of sales tax among Oakland's neighborhoods, exceeded only by affluent Rockridge.
 Along International Boulevard, the street that borders the 13-acre development, the vacancy rate in commercial buildings is 1 percent. About a decade ago, it was 40 percent. 
 In its boom period during the first half of the 20th century, Fruitvale was the industrial center of Oakland. Just a few miles from the city's port, the area was a hive of canneries owned by the Del Monte Corporation and others, before the industry moved out in the 1960's and 70's in search of larger plants in cheaper suburban areas. 
 Arabella Martinez, who grew up in the neighborhood, said she remembered the acrid smell of tomatoes being canned in the summer. ''It was pungent,'' she said. 
 The Fruitvale Village project grew out of a spontaneous neighborhood protest in 1991, when BART -- Bay Area Rapid Transit -- proposed building a 541-car parking garage next to the Fruitvale station. Local residents particularly objected to the garage plan, calling it a bleak structure that would wall off the neighborhood from the commuter train. 
 As the founder of a group known as the Spanish Speaking Unity Council, Ms. Martinez, who was assistant secretary of the Department of Health in the Carter administration, began a series of talks with neighborhood groups, designers and city officials on the future of a two-block stretch between the BART station and the Fruitvale district's languishing commercial area.
 In 1992, Ms. Martinez and her group began to conceive of a development that would provide badly needed new stores and housing for the neighborhood, while at the same time serving as a kind of pathway to the neighborhood's most commercial intersection, 34th Avenue and 14th Street (now called International Boulevard).
 ''We have a double bottom line,'' said Ms. Martinez, a white-haired woman with a firm grasp of real estate and public finance. The village, she said, had to be a success in itself, but it also had to bring success to the surrounding neighborhood. ''After all,'' she added, ''that was the whole point of it.''
 The project also had to be large enough to change the direction of the community. ''If we were going to stop businesses from moving away, we had to build a project of scale,'' she said. 
 In 1992, the Unity Council decided to become a nonprofit developer and build the unusual project in partnership with BART and the City of Oakland. Even with those partners, Fruitvale Village was a complex undertaking for a novice developer. 
 ''We had never done a mixed-use project before, and we were taking a real risk in doing this,'' Ms. Martinez acknowledged.
 BART officials were not receptive at first to the idea of letting the group develop the area because its policy is never to sell land or use it for purposes unrelated to transit. Eventually, Ms. Martinez persuaded the transit officials to lease the land to the Unity Council, after the group found some nearby land for BART riders to park their cars.
 Much of the complexity of Fruitvale Village lies in the financing, which came from nearly 30 different sources, including grants from private foundations and public money from the city, state and federal levels. 
 In one creative financial arrangement, the city agreed to rent nearly all the nonretail space in the project for 20 years and to pay for it up front -- giving the Unity Council the cash it needed to qualify for a construction loan.
 Eventually, Citibank agreed to provide both a construction loan and a mortgage, and construction started in 1999. 
 The design, by McLarand Vasquez Emsiek & Partners of Irvine, Calif., is centered on a walkway running between a pair of two-story buildings containing a total of 255,000 square feet of space. Lined at street level with shops on either side, the walkway, or paseo, leads from the train platform to the stores on International Boulevard. The library, apartments and office space are on the second level. At the center of the paseo is a fountain, playfully named for Mr. De La Fuente, whose name means fountain in Spanish.
 The Unity Council has taken what it calls extraordinary measures to maintain the village, including regular cleaning crews and volunteers, known as Fruitvale Ambassadors, who field complaints from tenants and shoppers. 
 Among the first retail tenants of Fruitvale Village were a husband and wife, Genesta and Payam Irani, who opened an optometry office in May. Their decision was questioned by friends, according to Mrs. Irani. ''They said to us, 'Fruitvale? What are you thinking?''' she recalled. 
 So far, the couple sounds optimistic, but sober, about the prospects for Fruitvale Village. Business, Mr. Irani said, is ''meeting or exceeding expectations, and the foot traffic is excellent.'' 
 Still, Mrs. Irani said, ''it is a very difficult thing to revitalize a community that has had problems, but it is much more difficult to change its reputation.'' 
 And life is not entirely free from peril in Fruitvale Village; a mugging occurred in July in a nearby parking lot. The Iranis, who also live in the area, said they planned to stay. ''If you want to create change,'' Mrs. Irani said, ''you must accept a certain amount of risk and still continue to believe'' in the value of investing in the neighborhood.
 The Unity Council, meanwhile, is planning a second phase of development with housing for the elderly on an adjoining site.
 Land values have shot up sharply as the Fruitvale begins to attract urban pioneers seeking comparatively affordable apartments and lofts amid the stratospheric housing prices of the Bay Area. 
 ''If we had bought our property in '93, we would have been rich,'' Ms. Martinez said. On the other hand, she added, ''nobody would have helped us with developing this site.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fruitvale Village in Oakland, Calif., grew out of a neighborhood protest over plans for a parking garage. A nonprofit group developed the mixed-use project, which has helped the surrounding area recover from a long slump. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); TRAINS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); CITIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); TRENDS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); SALES TAX (69%); CHILD CARE (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%) Area Planning and Renewal; Transit Systems; Parking Garages and Lots; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: DEL MONTE FOODS CO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Bay Area Rapid Transit System

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (65%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (65%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (65%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (65%)

PERSON: Morris Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Oakland (Calif); Fruitvale Village (Oakland, Calif); Oakland (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



262 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Thai as Theater, Restaurant as Stage

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
IN Kittichai's liberally and fantastically interpreted Thailand, the orchids do not bloom in vases on the tables. They twist in an ersatz spider web above a dark reflecting pool in the center of the dining room. Buoyant votive candles skitter across the pool's surface, unless the manufactured currents are not working right. In that case, a server or a manager pokes and prods the recalcitrant props into action.
 Dinner here is not so much like a night in Bangkok as a night in Bangkok in a David Lynch movie. That maple bird cage next to the host's station, just a few steps inside the entrance? Look closer: it is actually a fish tank. Look closer still: its eight inhabitants are no garden-variety species. They are red caps, so named for a manner of freakish plumage that resembles external brains. 
 The meal commences, and its components arrive on bowls, plates and saucers that are disconcertingly asymmetrical, the lip on one side lower than the lip on the other or the central dimple not quite in the center. The ''crispy whole fish'' comes -- on this night, it is branzino -- and instead of being laid out flat, it is twisted with toothpicks into an S-shaped squiggle, as if it were about to squirm away. A version of tapioca pudding has iridescent green and red pearls.
 Protein as diorama, dessert as decor: Kittichai, in SoHo, is staking its claim on the same turf that other new restaurants -- Megu in TriBeCa and Spice Market and Matsuri in the meatpacking district -- inhabit. In that surreal and sexy place, which is more often than not downtown, upscale dining meets assiduously eccentric theater. The tantalizing seasonings of a distant land encounter the cheeky attitude of our own. The Manhattan economy may have its discontents, but an ebbing of pose-striking, scene-stealing Manhattan restaurants is not among them. That is very lucky for us, because the gustatory pleasures of Kittichai (pronounced kitty-chai) rise almost to the level of the visual ones.
 The restaurant's Thai soul asserts itself through the recurrence, in dish after dish, of kaffir lime and lemon grass, Thai basil and Thai chili peppers, coriander and coconut. Its Thai chef, Ian Chalermkittichai, for whom the restaurant is named, grew up in Bangkok. But he worked and cooked in London and Sydney, Australia, and then, as the executive chef at the Four Seasons hotel in Bangkok, supervised not just a Thai restaurant but also Italian and Japanese ones. Small wonder, then, that boundaries blur in his kitchen and he readily makes concessions to the habits of New Yorkers and the culinary fads of the moment.
 Monkfish provides the supple flesh in a sublime yellow curry. Short ribs get the attention of an equally sublime green curry. And that trusted warhorse of Thai cuisine, seared Hudson Valley foie gras, claims a place among the appetizers. The only Siamese spin on it is an accompanying relish of pineapple.
 Mr. Chalermkittichai also makes concessions to the whims of his own imagination. He uses cocoa powder, apple butter and A1 steak sauce for a glaze on baby back ribs, which he unabashedly advertises as ''chocolate back ribs.'' Do not cringe: when I had them, they were delightful, because the meat really did fall from the bones and the hint of chocolate was just that, a hint, not an emphatic statement.
 In fact, some of the best dishes on this broad menu, which emphasizes small plates by having both tapas and appetizer categories, reflect the chef's determination to find a balance of sweet, sour, salty and hotly spicy. Although he occasionally overemphasizes sweetness, he often hits his mark. Those curries are an example. So is this restaurant's exalted version of the chicken, lemon grass and coconut soup that almost every Thai takeout place offers. Here it is a gorgeous pale red, reflecting the inclusion of roasted red chili paste among other ingredients like galangal and kaffir lime.
 Familiar Thai spices appear with the kind and quality of meats that your neighborhood Thai restaurant may not have. Among the best entrees is a divinely moist Chilean sea bass under a caramelized sheen of palm sugar and red curry paste. I also liked the loin of lamb, served with a Thai basil pesto, and the Cornish hen, flanked by a turmeric emulsion.
 Kittichai's menu is not one of uniform excellence, so a road map is in order. The entrees to steer away from are the prawns, which were unpleasantly salty, and the duck, which was tough. No-go appetizers include a frenetically busy Thai fruit and vegetable salad, an almost-as-busy prawn and citrus salad and a carpaccio of bluefin tuna, which was simply ordinary. Instead try the crispy rock shrimp, the marinated monkfish in pandan leaves or the Kittichai fish cakes. For dessert, give first consideration to the kaffir lime tart, the Champagne mango with sticky rice and the flourless chocolate cake.
 Give some thought, too, to cocktails instead of wine or beer, because Kittichai has delicious, colorful creations, some in ribbed martini shakers that look like metallic beehives. They are carried by servers who wear fetching pajamalike black outfits and are themselves quite fetching. Kittichai cares about eye candy.
 The Rockwell Group did the design, which deftly downplays the fact that the dining room is a low-ceilinged windowless rectangle deep inside the Sixty Thompson Hotel. The pool helps. So do the regal silk curtains -- in crimson, gold and plum -- that cover the walls. Kittichai's publicity materials announce that all of this is blessed by a feng shui master and that the dim lighting is calibrated to make everyone look good. Inner peace, outer prettiness and wok-fired vegetables in a red curry sauce -- that's a fusion New Yorkers are bound to embrace.

Kittichai
**
[Rating: two stars]
60 Thompson Street (Broome Street), SoHo; (212) 219-2000.

ATMOSPHERE -- A dark, sexy room with a reflecting pool and walls lined by plush drapes in regal colors.
SERVICE -- Attentive and extremely good-looking.
SOUND LEVEL -- Fairly loud.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Marinated monkfish in pandan leaves; galangal and coconut soup with chicken; crispy rock shrimp; steamed mussels; banana blossom salad; chocolate ribs; Chilean sea bass; loin of lamb; Cornish hen; short ribs in green curry; monkfish in yellow curry; kaffir lime tart; Champagne mango with sticky rice.
WINE LIST -- Brief but diverse, with selections from many countries and continents. More impressive are the specialty cocktails, including a slushy watermelon cooler and mango, mandarin, kumquat and Asian pear martinis.
PRICE RANGE -- Thai tapas and appetizers, $6 to $18; entrees, $14 to $27; desserts, $7 to $9.
HOURS -- Dinner, Sunday through Thursday 6 to 11 p.m., Friday and Saturday until midnight. Beginning late August, lunch daily from noon to 3 p.m.
RESERVATIONS -- Call two or more weeks in advance for prime times.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Accessible.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics: nytimes.com/dining


GRAPHIC: Photo: FOLLOW THE CANDLELIGHT -- Kittichai, in the Sixty Thompson Hotel in SoHo, has its own take on Thai food. (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FISHES (88%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%) Restaurants; Reviews 

ORGANIZATION: Kittichai (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Frank Bruni

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (67%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



263 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Fed Message Lifts Markets and the Dollar

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stocks and the dollar rallied yesterday and bond prices fell after Federal Reserve policy makers said the economy would soon return to a stronger pace of growth. 
 The message from the Fed struck a note of cautious optimism after Friday's unemployment report, which showed that only 32,000 jobs were created in July, intensifying fears about slowing economic growth.
 The three main stock market gauges were up 1.3 percent or more, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average erasing almost all their Friday losses.
 But many individual stocks rose much more as they rebounded from the pounding they had taken Friday. Doing particularly well were economically sensitive stocks that suffer when growth slows, with some up 5 percent for the day. Technology stocks also rebounded sharply after leading the recent downturn. 
 The dollar jumped 0.6 percent against the euro after the Fed announcement. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose as high as 4.30 percent, from 4.24 percent before the Fed news.
 The price of crude oil, which had only 15 minutes of regular trading after the announcement, slipped 0.7 percent for the day, but is still above $44 a barrel.
 But while the news from the Fed was positive, the rally in stocks and the dollar was also tied to how sharply the two markets had fallen recently on news that the economy slowed in June and, apparently, in July. The same, but in reverse, was true for the bond market.
 ''The Fed was very confident on the outlook for the economy,'' said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors, a money management firm. ''But the stock market,'' he added, ''was very oversold.''
 The crucial part of the afternoon announcement was expected, with policy makers raising their benchmark short-term interest rate a quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent, the second quarter-point move since June.
 In the statement accompanying the rate increase, the Fed did acknowledge that the pace of growth had moderated, chiefly because of the rise in energy prices.
 But policy makers gave no indication that the moderation in growth would lead them to slow the pace of future rate increases. Some bond investors had hoped for such a signal, analysts said.
 Instead, Fed policy makers stuck to the language of their June statement, which said that the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks, the Fed benchmark, could be raised ''at a pace that is likely to be measured.''
 The Fed's apparent confidence in the resumption of sustained growth was bad for bonds, which had rallied sharply since July 27 on the assumption that crude oil prices of $40 a barrel or higher would slow economic growth.
 For the day, the 10-year yield wound up at 4.29 percent in late trading, up from 4.26 percent Monday, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 9/32 to 103 20/32.
 But for stocks, a rebound in growth is good for future corporate earnings. The Dow Jones industrial average, which was up about 80 points before the Fed announcement, finished the day up 130.01 points, or 1.3 percent, to 9,944.67. The Dow was led higher by J.P. Morgan Chase, up 2.6 percent; Honeywell, up 2.5 percent; and Walt Disney, up 2.3 percent. But the average is still below 10,000 and is still down 4.9 percent for the year.
 After the market closed, Disney reported that it earned 29 cents a share in the quarter ended June 30, 2 cents better than forecasts. 
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 34.06 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,808.70. It was up about 19 points before the announcement but is still down 9.7 percent for the year. It was led higher by Yahoo, up 5.6 percent; Amazon.com, up 5 percent; and Apple Computer, up 4 percent.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up about 8 points before the Fed's action and finished the day at 1,079.04, up 13.8 points or 1.3 percent. It was led higher by Gateway, up 7.3 percent, and by two economically sensitive stocks, Goodyear, up 5.4 percent, and U.S. Steel, up 5.4 percent.
 Mr. Kleintop of PNC Advisors said that despite the Fed's confidence in economic growth, he did not think the stock market could break out of its rut, which began in February, until this fall. By then, he said, the price of oil might have slipped lower after a decline in summer demand. There may be a clear leader in the presidential race and the threat of terrorism may have subsided a bit after the Olympics and the Republican National Convention, he said.
 The euro was worth $1.2231 in afternoon trading against the dollar, down from $1.2275 on Monday. Before the Fed announcement, the euro was up to $1.2309. The price of crude oil for September delivery fell 32 cents to $44.52 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.891
High Rate: 1.400
Coupon Yield: 1.422
Low Rate: 1.385
Median Rate: 1.395
Total applied for: $53,592,656
Accepted: $28,237,101
Noncompetitive: $52,187
The four-week bills mature Sept. 09, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cautious optimism at the Fed encouraged traders at the New York Stock Exchange. (Photo by Mary Altaffer/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
The New York Stock Exchange yesterday before the Fed raised rates a quarter of a percentage point. Policy makers gave no indication that a moderation in growth would lead them to slow the pace of rate increases. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)(pg. C8)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C8)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks Treasury securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)Graphs track inflation
year-over-year change, oil prices
 near-month contract and fed funds target rate, since 2002.Graphs track the S.&P. 500 and the NASDAQ since May. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); EURO (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Currency; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



264 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Text of Fed Statement on Rate Decision

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter point: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 11/2 percent. 
 The committee believes that even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. In recent months, output growth has moderated and the pace of improvement in labor market conditions has slowed. This softness likely owes importantly to the substantial rise in energy prices. The economy nevertheless appears poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion going forward. Inflation has been somewhat elevated this year, though a portion of the rise in prices seems to reflect transitory factors. 
 The committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters are roughly equal. With underlying inflation still expected to be relatively low, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability. 
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Cathy E. Minehan; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and William Poole. 
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate, to 21/2 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



265 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN BRIEFING: THE CONVENTIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: REVENUE LOWER THAN EXPECTED

BYLINE: By Matt Viser (NYT)

 BODY:
The Democratic National Convention last month gave Boston's economy only a $14.8 million lift, far short of the $154 million that city officials had projected, a study by a research organization, the Beacon Hill Institute, has found. 
The institute, which is affiliated with Suffolk University, had originally forecast that the convention would result in an $8.2 million net loss. The event brought in $156.7 million, the group estimates, but that was offset by $141.9 million in lost business from those who avoided the city during the convention. Matt Viser (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CITIES (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (86%); TRENDS (86%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Economic Conditions and Trends; Conventions, National (US)

ORGANIZATION: Beacon Hill Institute

PERSON: Matt Viser

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



266 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Private Banking Fees Drive Profit at UBS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: ZURICH, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
UBS, the world's biggest money manager for the rich, said on Tuesday that its second-quarter profit rose 28 percent, largely because of private banking fees. 
 Revenue may decline in the second half, the bank said, as directionless stock markets curb trading income.
 Net income in the second quarter rose to 1.97 billion Swiss francs ($1.57 billion), or 1.78 francs a share, from 1.54 billion francs, or 1.33 francs a share, a year ago, UBS said in a statement. Revenue fell 8 percent from the first quarter, to 9.48 billion francs. 
 The result ''was about the best one could expect,'' said Dieter Buchholz, a fund manager at BNP Paribas Private Bank in Zurich, which oversees $2.9 billion and is recommending UBS shares. The private banking unit can count on repeat business, he said, adding, ''That's their stability.''
 Revenue from buying and selling stocks and bonds is falling at UBS and competitors, including Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank, as trading volumes drop.
 Elections in the United States, forecasts for rising interest rates and concerns about geopolitical risks may ''create an environment where markets move sideways'' in the second half, Clive Standish, chief financial officer of UBS, said at a presentation.
 UBS, led by Peter A. Wuffli, its chief executive, makes half its earnings from its securities unit and half from money management.
 Created in the 1998 merger of the Swiss Bank Corporation and Union Bank of Switzerland, UBS is the world's biggest money manager for rich individuals, based on the $1.03 trillion it oversaw at the end of 2003, according to a survey by the Scorpio Partnership. Merrill Lynch is second and the Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group, Switzerland's No.2 bank, is third.
 Profit at UBS's private bank, which is run by Marcel Rohner, 39, increased 34 percent in the second quarter, to 881 million francs, from 656 million francs a year earlier.
 A strong European stock market fueled that performance: the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index of European shares gained 19 percent in the year through June 30, increasing the value of assets managed for rich clients and bringing in more fees. 
 Total fee and commission income at UBS rose 12 percent in the quarter, to 4.84 billion francs.
 Clients added 8.2 billion francs more than they withdrew in the second quarter, down from a record 16.2 billion francs in the first quarter. The private bank had 750 billion francs under management at the end of June. 
 UBS's private banking clients typically have more than $1 million to invest. Its United States brokerage firm caters to people with at least $500,000 and has a new unit that focuses on individuals with more than $10 million in assets.
 ''Strong asset-based fees from our wealth management and asset management franchises, alongside the progress of our corporate client franchise, have helped us to balance lower securities revenue,'' Mr. Standish said. 
 At the UBS investment bank, led by John Costas, 47, second-quarter pretax profit fell 8 percent from a year ago, to 923 million francs. Earnings declined 45 percent from the first quarter's record 1.67 billion francs, reflecting costs for a fine in the United States over bank note trading and reduced trading opportunities in less active markets.
 UBS paid a $100 million fine levied by the Federal Reserve in May for transferring United States currency to Cuba, Iran, the former Yugoslavia and other nations subject to American trade sanctions.
 UBS has since ended its United States bank-note trading business outside Switzerland and has fired and disciplined several employees. 
 The investment bank also set aside an unspecified amount of money to cover a shortfall in United States tax payments after UBS discovered it had not withheld enough tax for some clients. 
 Revenue from investment banking rose 5 percent from a year ago but fell 20 percent from the first quarter, to 3.96 billion francs, hurt by a 23 percent drop in revenue from fixed income, rates and currencies and a 19 percent decline in equities revenue, UBS said.
 ''The outlook is clouded,'' Mr. Standish said. ''We are being deliberately cautious on this. There are lower levels of volatility and turnover in the marketplace,'' making it ''more difficult for our investment banking and trading operations.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter A. Wuffli, right, the chief executive of UBS, and Clive Standish, the chief financial officer, presented second-quarter results yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE BANKING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); COUNTRY RISK (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MERGERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Company Reports ; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: UBS AG (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (84%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ubs Ag

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (94%); UBS (NYSE) (94%); CSGN (SWX) (84%); CS (NYSE) (84%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Peter A Wuffli; Clive Standish

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (93%) SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



267 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Stumping Bush Calls Kerry A Reluctant Ally on Iraq

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Jodi Wilgoren contributed reporting from Las Vegas for this article.

DATELINE: NICEVILLE, Fla., Aug. 10 

 BODY:
Traveling here through Florida's conservative Panhandle, President Bush told supporters Tuesday that he had a new backer for his decision to invade Iraq: Senator John Kerry.
 Mr. Bush and allies seized on Mr. Kerry's remark of Monday that he would have voted to grant authority for the war even if he had known no weapons of mass destruction would be found. The Republicans said the comment amounted to what they described as another shift in position by the Democratic presidential nominee and an acknowledgement that administration policy on a crucial national security matter was correct after all. 
 ''After months of questioning my motives and even my credibility, Senator Kerry now agrees with me that even though we have not found the stockpile of weapons we all believe were there, knowing everything we know today, he would have voted to go into Iraq and remove Saddam Hussein from power,'' Mr. Bush told a cheering crowd in Pensacola as he began a five-day cross-country campaign swing. ''I want to thank Senator Kerry for clearing that up.''
 Mr. Kerry has long maintained that his vote in favor of authorizing force in Iraq, a vote cast five months before the war began, in no way signaled his favoring the way the president ultimately acted: without reaching out, in the senator's view, to sufficient numbers of American partners and failing to exhaust all alternatives. He has also argued that the Senate vote was necessary if the president was to be armed with enough credibility to deal with Saddam Hussein.
 At a rally Tuesday night in Las Vegas, Mr. Kerry said he had been ''consistent all along,'' and added: ''I thought the United States needed to stand up to Saddam Hussein, and I voted to stand up to Saddam Hussein. But I thought we ought to do it right.''
 Earlier in the day, Rand Beers, the senator's national security adviser, issued a statement posing questions to Mr. Bush: ''Mr. President, knowing what you know now, do you still believe you made no mistakes in how you took the country to war? Do you really have no regrets about sending our troops into battle without body armor to save their lives?'' 
 Added to the charges and countercharges over Iraq was sniping between the two campaigns over the economy.
 The Kerry campaign issued a new paper that blamed Mr. Bush's tax cuts for drastically increasing the federal budget deficit without creating a significant number of new jobs.
 But the Bush campaign, which has repeatedly charged that Mr. Kerry's own fiscal plans would actually make the deficit worse, fired back. It noted that he had made no plans to pay for his pledge to preserve tax cuts for middle-income families and that he had similarly left out the cost of many of his proposals.
 Mr. Bush came to Florida with Senator John McCain, who has been an occasional thorn in the side of the administration but has also campaigned vigorously for the president this year, introducing him Tuesday as strong on national security.
 ''The president took the fight to the enemy,'' the senator told the hundreds of people crowded into the Pensacola Civic Center for the first of three events in the region.
 Setting out on one of his most extended tours of the campaign season, Mr. Bush touched on frequent domestic topics, covering tax cuts, education programs and job retraining.
 But he and other administration officials were clearly trying to capitalize on Mr. Kerry's remark on Iraq, which the president described as a ''new nuance.''
 Mr. Bush also criticized, by name, Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, for their votes against $87 billion that helped finance combat and reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 In Niceville, Mr. Bush's appearance took on the air of a revival meeting as the audience chanted affirmation to his description of the rationale for his antiterror efforts and roared at any religious reference. Gary Walby, a resident of nearby Destin, told the president during a question-and-answer session that though he always voted Republican, ''this is the very first time I felt God was in the White House.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carrying his campaign to the Florida Panhandle, President Bush was joined at a rally in Pensacola yesterday by Senator John McCain. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (84%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); TAX LAW (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); FAMILY (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; Election Issues ; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Law and Legislation; Foreign Aid 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%) Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush; John S (Sen) Mccain; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Florida; Iraq; United States; Afghanistan; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



268 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Reports Strong Revenue In 4th Quarter

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
Cisco Systems, the maker of Internet networking equipment, posted solid quarterly earnings on Tuesday that were squarely in line with Wall Street expectations. But John T. Chambers, the company's chief executive, suggested that economic conditions remain jittery, even more so than they were three months ago.
 Mr. Chambers, whose sales efforts put him in contact with the country's most powerful executives, said he was hearing less optimism than he had three months earlier. While not necessarily expecting the economy to sour, customers have reverted to expressing a more cautious outlook, he said. 
 Three months ago, when Cisco last held a quarterly conference call with investors, Mr. Chambers said he was as enthusiastic as he had been in several years. On Tuesday, Mr. Chambers was more measured.
 ''Most of the C.E.O.'s I talk with,'' Mr. Chambers said, ''view the economy as growing at a modest level and are a little more cautious in their outlook than they were a quarter ago.''
 However, he said he was heartened by the fact that demand for Cisco products from United States companies continued to rise and that, of particular note, orders from telecommunications service providers were the highest in three years.
 For the quarter ended July 31, the company's fourth, Cisco had net income of $1.38 billion, or 20 cents a share, up 41 percent from $982 million, or 14 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
 Cisco had revenue of $5.9 billion, compared with $4.7 billion in the period a year earlier and $5.62 billion in the previous quarter. Analysts had expected Cisco to post sales of $5.88 billion.
 On a pro forma basis, the company had earnings of 21 cents a share, compared with analysts' estimates of 20 cents. 
 The earnings news from Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., comes several weeks after two other technology industry bellwethers, I.B.M. and Microsoft, each posted solid quarterly results. However, their reports were also tempered, with Microsoft remaining cautious in its own outlook and I.B.M. reporting that it had noticed some pause in corporate technology spending.
 The fourth quarter rounded out something of a rebuilding fiscal year for Cisco. Rebounding from the fallout of the dot-com collapse and the continued sluggishness in the telecommunications market, the company posted annual sales of $22 billion and earnings of 76 cents a share, compared with revenue of $18.9 billion and earnings of 59 cents a share in the 2003 fiscal year.
 Steve Kamman, a network industry analyst with CIBC World Markets, said that if investors had foreseen the results a year ago, they ''would have been absolutely thrilled.'' But he added that investor expectations had changed and that the market was ''less enthusiastic across the board.''
 Before Cisco announced its results, its shares closed at $20.46, up 41 cents. They fell as low as $19.90 after hours. 
 Mr. Kamman said that Cisco's fourth-quarter earnings were strong but not remarkable. ''They're delivering well, but there are no fireworks,'' he said. ''The questions now are when do they step on the accelerator and how would they do that?''
 Within the broad brush strokes of Cisco's report, the finer points appeared to offer both cause for optimism and some mild concern for investors.
 One potential trouble spot for Cisco, several industry analysts said, is that its inventories have been creeping up. That can be cause for concern because it can signal that the company has overestimated demand.
 In Cisco's third fiscal quarter, inventory was $1.1 billion, up from $933 million in the second quarter. In the fourth quarter, it rose to $1.2 billion.
 Mr. Chambers took pains during a conference call with analysts and reporters to allay any concern. He and Dennis Powell, the chief financial officer, attributed the rising inventories to a calculated effort to have the right level of supply to meet seasonal demand, particularly of back-to-school products. 
 ''We're not losing sleep over this at all,'' he said. ''This is an issue we'd view as secondary, and not a primary issue at all.''
 There was also a slight decrease in gross margin, which measures sales minus the cost of producing goods. Mr. Powell attributed the drop -- to 68.4 percent from 68.8 percent in the third quarter -- to some discounted prices and higher inventory. 
 On a potentially positive note for investors, the demand that Mr. Chambers said he was seeing from telecommunications service providers may be more than a revival in spending from those companies. It may indicate some success in Cisco's strategy of re-establishing ties with those companies after a fallout with some service providers during the dot-com boom.
 For his part, Mr. Chambers received a personal financial gain, the company disclosed during its earnings conference call. Since April 2001, Mr. Chambers -- at his own request -- forfeited his salary and bonus, though he did continue to collect stock options potentially worth tens of millions of dollars.
 However, the company said its board had approved paying Mr. Chambers $350,000 in annual salary, the same as he was receiving before the cutback in his pay.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco Systems, says his customers have grown less optimistic about the economy in recent months. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); SALES & SELLING (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) Company Reports; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%); CISCO SYSTEMS FRANCE (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Cisco Systems

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (93%) Matt Richtel; John T Chambers

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



269 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: COMBAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TROOPS FIGHT IRAQ MILITIAMEN ON TWO FRONTS

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and ALEX BERENSON; John F. Burns reported from Baghdad for this article and Alex Berenson from Najaf.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
American troops fought simultaneous battles on Tuesday with rebel Shiite militiamen in Najaf and the Baghdad slum of Sadr City. But American commanders, preparing new battle orders, appeared to have deferred for the time being any decision to mount full-scale assaults on the rebels, weighing the consequences for their wider aim of bringing stability to Iraq.
 On the sixth day since fighters loyal to the rebel Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr renewed their challenge to the American presence here, American units showed signs of rising impatience. In Najaf, loudspeakers atop patrolling Humvees urged residents to evacuate the city and warned Mr. Sadr's fighters to ''leave the city, or you will die.'' As night fell in Sadr City, tanks and attack helicopters moved into militia-controlled neighborhoods, and American attack jets and pilotless Predator drones patrolled overhead.
 Faced with the uprisings in Najaf and Sadr City, and rebel attacks in Basra and other southern cities, the new Iraqi-American hierarchy in Baghdad -- Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, Ambassador John D. Negroponte and Gen. George W. Casey, the military commander --appeared to have reached a watershed as critical as any since American troops toppled Saddam Hussein's government in April 2003. 
 With elections planned by the end of January, many Americans and Iraqis here say that Mr. Sadr's challenge offers a difficult choice. Either it will have to be answered with force now, at the risk of igniting an explosion of anger among Iraq's majority Shiite population, or with negotiation as it was at the time of Mr. Sadr's last lengthy uprising in the spring, with consequences that could cause the election plans and much that lies beyond them to unravel. 
 When he emerged from hiding on Monday to speak to reporters at Najaf's Imam Ali shrine, the holiest in Shiite Islam, Mr. Sadr rejected Dr. Allawi's urging over the weekend that he take part in the elections. Mr. Sadr said efforts to build a democracy in Iraq could begin only after American troops leave.
 Perhaps the biggest threat posed by the rebels, to shut down oil exports flowing from the country's richest southern oil fields, appeared to have receded for the moment with the announcement by the Oil Ministry in Baghdad that full production resumed on Tuesday after quick repairs to a pipeline that was blown up by saboteurs on Monday. An official said the two main export pipelines flowing to shipping terminals from oil fields near Basra were pumping again, though the risk of renewed rebel attacks remained high.
 For days, American troops had avoided plunging into Sadr City, remaining mostly on the western rim of the sprawling district, pushing back militia bands threatening to break for the center of Baghdad, five miles away. It was not clear on Tuesday night how deep the new offensive had gone. But reporters returning from another day of skirmishes said practically all of Sadr City appeared to be under the effective control of militiamen who hide down side streets and alleys, promising a potential bloodbath in the event of any full-scale challenge from the Americans and Iraq's new security forces.
 In Najaf, American armor and helicopter gunships continued to attack around the vast cemetery that adjoins the Imam Ali shrine, now a base and armory for Mr. Sadr.
 Thunderous explosions were audible miles away, and black smoke curled into the sky after an American jet bombed an inner-city hotel 400 yards from the shrine that American officers said had been used as a firing point by the rebels. At a base 20 miles away, senior Army and Marine officers, awaiting orders from Baghdad, met to plan a wider assault on the old town, a warren of alleyways and bazaars surrounding the ancient shrine where hundreds of militiamen have been reported to be holed up.
 American officers said the command in Baghdad was preparing to move another 1,000 American troops into the city, on top of the 2,000 already available to commanders there, with a view to pressuring the rebels and adding punch to a new offensive. American forces planned attacks on the old city before, during Mr. Sadr's uprising in April. But they pulled back and signed a series of fragile truces with the cleric because of concern about the repercussions, among Iraq's 15 million Shiites, of damaging the Imam Ali shrine or of wounding or killing Mr. Sadr, a populist leader in his early 30's who is the scion of one of Iraq's most revered clerical dynasties.
 The officers who spoke of plans for a new offensive acknowledged privately that they hoped that the disclosure of the plans, and of the American troop reinforcements, would persuade Mr. Sadr to back down and disband his militia, known as the Mahdi Army. Another option discussed by some American officers -- using the fledgling Iraqi security forces to carry out an assault on the mosque, and keeping American troops back to blunt Shiite objections -- appeared to have been ruled out after American commanders concluded that the Iraqis fighting in Najaf have had trouble achieving minor combat objectives.
 Still, American commanders insisted that they were ready to press ahead if Mr. Sadr fails to surrender. ''All indications are that we are committed this time,'' said Lt. Col. Myles Miyamasu, who commands the First Battalion of the Fifth Cavalry Regiment, the Army unit that took over the fighting in the cemetery on Sunday, relieving units of the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit. ''There's a will to win this fight. There are a lot of people we don't want to let down, including ourselves.''
 Mr. Sadr, who vowed Monday that he would fight ''to the last drop of my blood,'' showed his canny, mocking brand of politics when an aide in Baghdad announced that the Mahdi Army had declared a curfew across the capital, starting at 1 p.m. and ending at 8 p.m. the next day, beginning immediately and continuing until hostilities against Mr. Sadr's fighters end. A day earlier, American forces imposed an indefinite curfew on Sadr City, one of the cleric's strongholds, ordering the slum's two million people off the streets from 4 p.m. to 8 a.m., the most stringent curfew in the 16 months since American troops captured Baghdad.
 A representative of Mr. Sadr in Baghdad, Qais al-Khazali, called on ''all citizens, and especially employees'' to obey the curfew and remain at home during the curfew hours, and to support the militiamen in their fight against the Americans. In a statement broadcast on the Arabic-language television channel Al Arabiya, he renewed the militiamen's warnings to Iraqi police, soldiers and national guardsmen, saying they should refuse to ''assist the occupiers,'' or face reprisals.
 The Sadr curfew, and a video-taped warning from another Sadr-linked group of attacks on Iraqi government workers who report for duty, appeared aimed at crippling the capital's economy. American commanders have said that 15,000 jobs provided to Sadr City residents to work on $70 million in new sewer, water and electricity projects have been scuttled, at least for now, by the uprising in the slum.
 The rebels' call for a citywide curfew appeared to have an almost immediate effect. By late afternoon on Tuesday, a tour of half a dozen of the city's inner neighborhoods showed that traffic that has choked many streets since the American-led invasion last year was sharply down. Gas stations that have had long lines in recent weeks after rebel attacks on refineries, pipelines and road tankers were mostly empty, or closed. Many other businesses were shuttered, and those that were open said they were ready to shut at a moment's notice.
 For American commanders, one reason for mounting a full-scale offensive on Sadr City would be to curb attacks on Baghdad. Since the uprising in the spring, the United States command has concentrated mainly on containing the Sadr militiamen in the slum, not challenging their control there. But leaving Mr. Sadr's fighters free rein has meant that Sadr City has become a Shiite counterpart to Falluja, the Sunni Muslim city 35 miles west of Baghdad. Falluja has been under rebel control since a Marine offensive there was halted in the spring. As long as the two cities are under rebel control, they will pose a threat to any effort to achieve lasting stability in Baghdad.
 The threat from Sadr City has been underscored in recent days by repeated nighttime mortar and rocket volleys fired from somewhere in the vicinity of the slum and aimed at the International Zone, the newly renamed American command center in what used to be Mr. Hussein's Republican Palace compound. 
 Americans officers have often mocked the errant marksmanship of the Iraqi rebels. But the volleys recently have become much heavier, sometimes as many as 30 heavy mortars and battlefield rockets in a night, and an increasing number of them have struck inside the secured zone, where the Americans and Dr. Allawi work. On Monday night, one shell hit and severely wounded the Iraqi interpreter for General Casey, the American military commander. American officials said the man was expected to survive.
 The American offensive that began Tuesday night appeared to have curbed the shelling.
 In Najaf, the American appeal to residents to evacuate appeared to have prompted at least a partial exodus. An Iraqi reporter working for The New York Times said that the Humvees making the appeal passed through neighborhoods that account for about 75 percent of the city's population, and that traffic leaving the city picked up quickly in neighborhoods where people had previously stayed off the streets.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the continuation of a front-page article yesterday about fighting in Iraq misidentified the military unit of the American soldiers who were shown resting inside an empty tomb at a cemetery in Najaf, where American forces have been battling Shiite militiamen for days. They are with the First Battalion of the Fifth Cavalry Regiment, not Fifth Cavalry Division. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: American soldiers searched a tomb for weapons yesterday in the cemetery in Najaf that adjoins the Imam Ali shrine, the holiest site in Shiite Islam. Troops fought rebel Shiite militiamen in Najaf and Baghdad. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
NAJAF -- American soldiers of Company C, First Battalion of the Fifth Cavalry Division operating in the Najaf cemetery took temporary shelter from the extreme heat in an empty tomb yesterday. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
BAGHDAD -- A militiaman loyal to the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr looked toward American sniper positions as militia fighters attacked a city council building in the Sadr City neighborhood of the capital. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)
 BAGHDAD -- A militiaman was treated in his home yesterday for burn wounds received during a clash with American forces in Sadr City. Wounded militiamen try to avoid hospitals for fear of arrest by the Americans. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (84%); EXPORT TRADE (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TERRORISM (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); RELIGION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (65%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); HELICOPTERS (54%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Pipelines; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN NEGROPONTE (90%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) John F Burns; Alex Berenson; Moktada Al- Sadr; Ayad (Prime Min) Allawi; John D (Amb) Negroponte; George W Jr (Gen) Casey

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%) Iraq; Najaf (Iraq); Baghdad (Iraq); Sadr City (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



270 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Disney Says 2004 Earnings Are Closing In on Forecasts

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company said on Tuesday that attendance at its theme parks and growth in its cable network business helped improve performance in its third quarter and that it was on track to meet analysts' expectations for the year.
 For the third quarter, net income at Disney increased 20 percent, to $604 million, or 29 cents a share, in contrast to $502 million, or 24 cents a share, in the period a year ago. Revenue increased 17 percent, to $7.47 billion, from $6.37 billion.
 Before Disney announced its results, its shares closed at $22.44, up 50 cents. They edged up after hours but then fell back to $22.35. 
 Disney executives attributed the gains to improving performance in its consumer products division, media networks and theme parks. The only group that fared worse compared with results in the period a year earlier was the filmed entertainment division, whose operating income declined 61 percent. Earnings were higher than what many analysts were predicting, and Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive, said the company was on track to deliver fiscal 2004 earnings growth of more than 50 percent.
 Disney's movie studio, which scored last year with ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' and Pixar Animation Studios' ''Finding Nemo'' has recently produced or distributed several flops, among them ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' ''Raising Helen'' and ''The Alamo.'' Disney executives are now in contract talks with Harvey and Bob Weinstein, the co-founders of Miramax Films, which they sold to Disney, for a deal that would allow Harvey Weinstein to produce his own movies and Bob Weinstein to stay at Disney.
 Mr. Eisner said in a conference call with analysts that Disney had not had any new talks with Pixar Animation Studios about distributing its movies when their joint venture ends next year.
 While the overall results were encouraging, Disney still faces challenges. The company has not yet turned around its ABC network. At the theme parks, operating income was up 20 percent, to $421 million, from $352 million in the period a year earlier. But some analysts fear that growth will slow past 2005. At Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla., international and domestic visitor attendance was up significantly but could be lower in the next quarter. At Disneyland, Tom Staggs, Disney's chief financial officer, said hotel occupancy was down slightly, while spending per room was up 10 percent.
 Disney is also facing a shareholder lawsuit, which is scheduled to begin in October, brought against Mr. Eisner and the board over the $140 million severance package paid to Michael Ovitz, the former president. And two former directors and dissident shareholders, Stanley P. Gold and Roy E. Disney, the nephew of the company's founder, are also likely to wage a bitter proxy fight to replace Mr. Eisner.
 Mr. Eisner and Disney's president, Robert A. Iger, struck a positive note regarding the company's prospects for growth. The two outlined several initiatives that helped improve growth, emphasizing that the ideas originated at Disney. These included new attractions at the theme parks, an expansion of Disney Cruises on the West Coast and better promotion of Disney properties, like ''Pirates of the Caribbean,'' throughout all divisions, including games, movies, merchandise and theme parks.
 That, Mr. Eisner said, ''does not happen by luck.''
 Mr. Iger said Disney had created the ''Hong Kong Disneyland Fun Time,'' which appeared on Chinese television and promoted the new theme park being built there. And between the 2004 and 2008 fiscal years, he added, the Disney Channel hopes to create 15 shows.
 With continued growth in the economy, Mr. Staggs said Disney would have double-digit earnings growth from the 2004 to the 2007 fiscal years. The company was concerned though about the renewed threat of terrorism and the increasing price of oil, which could curb travel. 
 The third-quarter results included a restructuring charge of $56 million, or 2 cents a share, that the company took as part of the planned sale of its North American Disney Stores to Children's Place Retail Stores. The two have signed a nonbinding letter of intent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (71%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (60%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); LITIGATION (50%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (98%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (55%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (98%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (98%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (98%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (52%)

PERSON: BOB WEINSTEIN (79%); ROBERT A IGER (78%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (50%) Michael D Eisner; Robert A Iger; Laura M Holson

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



271 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: VOTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Give Republicans a Fight for the Elderly

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
When President Bush signed a Medicare bill into law in December, Republicans thought it would allow them to make sharp inroads into elderly voters.
 But Democrats say the elderly are proving an unexpectedly fertile voting bloc for their party this year because of dissatisfaction with the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, disproportionate opposition to the war in Iraq, worries about mounting deficits and wariness over talk ofaltering Social Security. 
 As one indication of Democratic prospects, the Alliance for Retired Americans, a three-year-old political organization that claims three million members, will endorse Senator John Kerry for president today in Las Vegas. The group plans to conduct full-scale get-out-the-vote operations in Nevada, Arizona, Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania -- all states with large elderly populations, said its executive director, Edward Coyle. 
 As another indication, Mr. Kerry's campaign will announce today a multiprong ''Seniors for Kerry-Edwards'' outreach program, with action groups in each state, events at senior centers and retirement homes, intergenerational get-out-the-vote efforts linking grandparents and their grandchildren, and even a Web-based initiative.
 Aides said that within several weeks, Mr. Kerry would roll out plans to help the elderly with Election Day transportation, as well as with signing up for absentee ballots, at which Republicans have long excelled.
 ''Suffice it to say that we will have a major, concerted effort to ensure that seniors across the country cast their votes, whether by absentee ballot or on Election Day,'' said Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's spokeswoman.
 In 2000, voters older than 60 supported Al Gore over George Bush 51 percent to 47 percent, but among whites, the largest component of that group, the breakdown was 52 percent for Mr. Bush and 46 percent for Mr. Gore. Kerry aides say they are confident they can do better this year.
 Perhaps the biggest single reason Democrats are sanguine about their chances with elderly white voters -- a factor that is causing considerable consternation among Republicans -- is public sentiment against the Medicare prescription drug legislation. A poll released yesterday by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Harvard School of Public Health found that among Medicare patients, the new law was viewed unfavorably by nearly twice as many as those who had a favorable view of it.
 The same survey also found that Medicare patients overwhelmingly disagreed with Mr. Bush and agreed with Mr. Kerry on two legislative proposals affecting consumers: 80 percent said they favored allowing the federal government to use its buying power to negotiate with drug companies for lower prices, and 79 percent said they favored allowing Americans to buy prescription drugs from Canada.
 On the campaign trail, Mr. Kerry has harshly criticized Mr. Bush on these issues. ''Seniors deserve prescription drugs that are affordable, and they shouldn't be banned from buying less expensive drugs from Canada,'' he said in Wheeling, W.Va., recently. ''We deserve better, and we can do better!''
 Republican officials scoff at the Kerry campaign's talk of big gains among elderly voters.
 ''Maybe it's a first step, maybe it's not everything they wanted, but the president got something done,'' said Matthew Dowd, the Bush-Cheney campaign's chief strategist. ''It's decisive leadership. We'll be happy to have a debate on who provided seniors prescription drugs and who opposed it, or didn't even show up for the vote.''
 Mr. Dowd said that elderly voters, like younger Americans, cared most about choosing a president best prepared to prosecute the fight against terrorism and to guide the economy. ''There's no reason to believe seniors will find John Kerry's profligate spending plans appealing,'' he said.
 He added that values-related issues would steer older Americans to Mr. Bush.
 ''There's a whole series of things like partial-birth abortion and parental notification where seniors overwhelmingly side with the president,'' Mr. Dowd said. ''And they want a strong leader, and they're very concerned about flip-flops. It's one of the reasons why they've stuck with the president through a lot of things: they see him as strong, decisive, and that he knows where he wants to go. That's going to be a problem for Kerry trying to peel off those voters.''
 Yet even some in the president's party are backing away from his stand on the prescription drug policy. ''There's a reason you see more and more Republican candidates favoring reimportation,'' said one Republican pollster who insisted on anonymity. 
 Among those candidates are at least two Republicans in competitive races: Larry Diedrich, running in South Dakota against Stephanie Herseth for her House seat, and Nancy Naples, in the contest for Jack Quinn's open House seat in upstate New York.
 Others noted that while Mr. Bush advertised heavily based on his plans for prescription drugs in the 2000 campaign, his commercials so far have steered clear of any message aimed specifically at the elderly.
 ''To be honest with you, I think that they really did believe that the prescription drug law was going to be a solid issue for them to run on,'' Mr. Coyle, of the Alliance for Retired Americans, said. ''But what they're finding is, and my prediction is, that by the time we get to September and October, the only people talking about it will be those who voted against it.''
 Susan MacManus, a political science professor at the University of South Florida in Tampa, said elderly voters ''have been screaming for years'' about prescription drugs. ''O.K., you did a little, but how about you finish the job?'' Ms. MacManus said, describing attitudes toward Mr. Bush. ''So they're just looking on to the next guy now.''
 As sensitive as they may be to drug prices, older Americans are anything but one-issue voters, experts say. Indeed, polls show the elderly have been more consistently opposed to the war in Iraq than any other age group, in part because they tend to see dollars spent abroad as unavailable for domestic programs, and in part because they see it as driving up the federal deficit.
 ''You put together the war, the feeling that we should spend our money at home, a bad prescription drug program, and rising health care costs, and you have a pretty powerful combination,'' said Stanley Greenberg, a Democratic pollster.
 Mr. Greenberg and other Democratic pollsters said that white voters over 65 represented the biggest challenge but also the biggest potential target for Mr. Kerry, because blacks have been such stalwart supporters of Democratic candidates while white elderly voters have backed Republicans in six of the last seven presidential elections.
 Cutting the over-65 population another way, Ms. MacManus, an expert on the elderly, said that older women in particular were shifting noticeably toward Democratic candidates because they were more antiwar and because they tended to be more dependent on federal retirement benefits than men. 
 But Democrats are counting on Mr. Kerry's war record to help them with older men, and they cite a CBS News poll after the Democratic convention showing that Mr. Kerry was favored by 48 percent of veterans, compared with 47 percent for Mr. Bush, who led Mr. Kerry by 15 points among veterans in June.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Chasing Older Voters''The Democratic Party is targeting older white voters, a group that has become more evenly divided between the Democratic and Republican candidates in recent presidential elections.How white voters 60 or older voted in presidential elections2000VOTED FORREP.: 52%DEM.: 46%MARGINREP.: 6 pointsDEM.: --1996VOTED FORREP.: 47DEM.: 45MARGINREP.: 2DEM.: --1992VOTED FORREP.: 40DEM.: 47MARGINREP.: --DEM.: 71988VOTED FORREP.: 54DEM.: 45MARGINREP.: 9DEM.: --1984VOTED FORREP.: 63DEM.: 37MARGINREP.: 26DEM.: --1980VOTED FORREP.: 56DEM.: 39MARGINREP.: 17DEM.: --1976VOTED FORREP.: 54DEM.: 45MARGINREP.: 9DEM.: --1972VOTED FORREP.: 72DEM.: 26MARGINREP.: 46DEM.: --White voters 60 and older on the issuesRegardless of how you usually vote, which party:Is more likely to make prescription drugs for the elderly more affordable.REPUBLICAN: 23%DEMOCRATIC: 53%Is more likely to make right decisions about Iraq.REPUBLICAN: 44DEMOCRATIC: 40Is more likely to ensure a strong economy.REPUBLICAN: 40DEMOCRATIC: 41Cares more about the needs and problems of people like youself.REPUBLICAN: 33DEMOCRATIC: 49Based on a nationwide telephone poll conducted July 11-15 with 823 registered voters, of whom 247 are white and age 60 or older. Those with other answers are not shown.(Sources by Nationwide surveys of voters leaving polling places on Election Day
 The New York Times/CBS News Poll)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BALLOTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%) Medicine and Health; Election Issues; Aged; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2004; Endorsements; Medicine and Health; Public Opinion; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: Medicare; Alliance for Retired Americans

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (58%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



272 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Trump Must Ante Up $55 Million To Hold On to 25% of His Casino

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
As Donald J. Trump's publicly traded casino company, Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, goes into a bankruptcy reorganization, Mr. Trump has to invest $55 million of his money in the enterprise to maintain a large ownership stake.
 But does he have it?
 In an interview yesterday, as in many interviews before, Mr. Trump pegged his net worth at $4 billion to $5 billion, a figure that suggests he could easily chip $55 million into the reorganization of the casino that bears his name. 
 ''It's cash I have on hand,'' Mr. Trump said. ''I'm very, very liquid.''
 In fact, it is nearly impossible to independently determine how wealthy Mr. Trump is, since most of his assets are privately held real estate investments that lack the kind of unforgiving financial disclosure required of his publicly traded casino holdings. But a cursory examination of Mr. Trump's finances suggests that his claims of being a billionaire may be greatly exaggerated.
 His casino holdings, as of about a week ago, were worth $34.5 million. That, however, was when Trump Hotels' stock was trading around $2 a share on the New York Stock Exchange. As of yesterday, the stock traded over the counter for 36 cents a share. Yesterday, Mr. Trump repeatedly said that his Trump Hotels stock represented only about 2 percent of his wealth; based on the prebankruptcy trading price of the shares, that would give him a net worth of about $1.7 billion -- well below the $4 billion to $5 billion figure he suggested earlier in the day.
 But even $1.7 billion may be too generous an assessment of Mr. Trump's wealth. Although Mr. Trump now distances himself from his casino business, for most of his life in the public eye, casinos were a significant pillar of his wealth, with a substantial inheritance from his wealthy father and his real estate holdings making up the rest. But past flirtations with personal and corporate bankruptcy forced Mr. Trump to either sell some prized real estate holdings or cede control of what remained to outside investors, particularly a group of wealthy Chinese financiers. While Mr. Trump still owns some handsome properties, his overall real estate holdings have been greatly diminished.
 Two people with direct knowledge of the matter said that in the midst of his earlier financial crisis Mr. Trump borrowed $20 million to $30 million from his father's $150 million estate to fend off creditors.
 Mr. Trump disputed that yesterday, though he declined to provide a valuation of his father's estate. ''I had zero borrowings from the estate,'' he said. ''I give you my word.''
 In one well-publicized incident at the time, Mr. Trump's father even walked into one of his Atlantic City casinos to buy chips in order to give his son's casinos some much needed cash.
 ''That was in 1990, OK?'' Mr. Trump said yesterday. ''That was a long time ago.''
 Moreover, while most multibillionaires do not serve as hucksters in commercials for Visa and Verizon, Mr. Trump said his ubiquity on television was not only shrewd self-promotion -- it was lucrative.
 ''I get a lot of money from doing that, it's not little money,'' he said. ''Other rich people don't do commercials because no one asks them. It's just like 'The Apprentice.' I can't tell you how many of my rich friends are dying, dying to have me put them on that show.''
 The Credit Suisse Group, a Wall Street investment bank leading the bankruptcy reorganization of Trump Hotels, will control the business if the revamping is completed. Credit Suisse offered to lend Mr. Trump the $55 million he needs to maintain a 25 percent ownership interest, according to an investment banker involved in the transaction. But Mr. Trump said he planned to provide the money himself. If he does not come up with the money, his equity stake in the company will largely evaporate. 
 ''I'm not interested in a loan for this,'' Mr. Trump said. ''I'm doing it out of cash. You can check on this after the deal is done.''
 The source of Mr. Trump's proposed $55 million investment has been an object of speculation among Trump Hotels bondholders and analysts. Jane Padreira, a fixed-income analyst who covers Trump Hotels for Lehman Brothers, was among several observers who think Mr. Trump will have to borrow the funds. ''I don't believe that he has that kind of money,'' she said.
 To be sure, the reorganization of Trump Hotels makes financial sense. The company owns prime casino locations in a growth industry, and if the bankruptcy plan succeeds in reducing the company's debt burden, Trump Hotels will be able to finance an overhaul of its properties. 
 Whether Mr. Trump is along for the ride as an owner, rather than simply as a marketer, will be determined by that $55 million.
 Even though the terms of the reorganization call for Mr. Trump to cede his chief executive post, Trump Hotels will pay him a $2 million salary to stay aboard as chairman and help promote the casinos.
 ''It's pretty amazing to still be paid with no executive capacity, after driving the company into bankruptcy,'' said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, an associate dean at the Yale School of Management, a frequent critic of Mr. Trump. ''It is surprising that the bondholders didn't say, 'You're fired.' Instead, they said, 'You are fired but we are still paying you.'''
 Not all Trump Hotels bondholders have agreed to the bankruptcy reorganization plan, and that may still derail the deal. In the meantime, Mr. Trump said he intended to dip into his personal assets and remain in the casino business.
 ''One reason I have a lot of cash is because I'm in the condo business,'' Mr. Trump said. ''I'm not bound to tell you how much cash I have, but I have a lot of cash and a lot of real estate.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Trump Plaza Hotel and Casinos would be controlled after reorganization by Credit Suisse. Donald J. Trump, top, is trying to hold on to a 25 percent share. (Photo by NBC)
(Photo by Craig Allen/Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 Donald J. Trump, shown in a frame from a TV ad for Visa credit cards, says he gets a lot of money for appearing in television commercials. (Photo by BBDO Worldwide)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (94%); RESORTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); GAMING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%) Gambling; Casinos; Bankruptcies; Biographical Information

COMPANY: TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts Inc 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (93%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (93%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (94%) Donald J Trump; Timothy O'Brien; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004



273 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: One Mistake After Another Led to the Longest Work Stoppage in Baseball

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
UNFAMILIAR with baseball's labor negotiating history, as incredible as that might have seemed for a labor executive who was hired for more money than the commissioner was making, Richard Ravitch had a formula for reaching a quick agreement on a new labor contract.
 Ravitch would get Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader, to sit down with him, maybe over drinks, in a back room somewhere, and they would work out a new collective bargaining agreement, which they would then present to their respective constituencies as a fait accompli.
 That method had apparently worked in Ravitch's lone previous labor negotiation -- with the Transport Workers Union when Ravitch was head of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority -- and he saw no reason why it couldn't work with Fehr, a belief Ravitch acknowledged at the time.
 Misreading the union chief wasn't the only mistake the owners' representative made, but it set a wrong tone for the talks that led to the longest work stoppage in sports history and the first-time cancellation of the World Series. 
 Ten years ago today the players stopped playing, beginning a strike they would end 233 days later after a federal judge issued an injunction that prevented the owners from unilaterally establishing new work rules in the absence of a new collective bargaining agreement.
 With her ruling, Judge Sonia Sotomayor accomplished what a federal mediator, Bill Usery Jr., and the White House had failed to do as the strike progressed. 
 The Clinton administration asked Usery to become involved in the talks, and after he had been unable to budge the two sides, the White House summoned negotiators to Washington just before Christmas. In thinking that the White House could induce a settlement, President Clinton's advisers were evidently as naive as Ravitch initially was. 
 The dispute, as it turned out, was not easily resolved. At the heart of it was the payroll cap that the owners wanted as the central element of a new economic system for the sport.
 ''Players have a choice,'' Fehr said the day before the players played their last games. ''Take a salary cap proposal now, take it after the season because they impose it, or strike. The owners have very deliberately left the players no choices at all.''
 The union has always opposed a salary cap, which baseball owners have observed in other sports and covet.
 So the players struck, creating the eighth work stoppage in 23 years. Every negotiation in that period produced either a strike (five times) or a lockout (three times). It was an unenviable streak that would end in 2002, primarily because the 1994-95 strike still remained fresh in the players' and the owners' minds and neither side had the stomach for a repeat performance.
 Furthermore, the 1994-95 strike cost both sides dearly, with the clubs losing perhaps $1 billion in revenue and the players millions of dollars in salary.
 In subsequent seasons after the strike ended, attendance dropped precipitously, threatening to erode the clubs' financial foundation. Major League Baseball had set an attendance record in 1993, averaging 31,337 fans a game, and when the strike began the next season the average was 31,612. In 1995, the average plummeted to 25,260.
 Baseball, however, has always succeeded in spite of the people who run it, and this year the average attendance has rebounded to 30,514 through Tuesday night.
 By the end of 1995, Randy Levine had replaced Ravitch as the chief management negotiator, and he brought a more realistic approach to the table. It nevertheless took until late August 1996 for the negotiators for the players and management to break through their stalemate and produce a new labor agreement. It then took another two months for them to refine the details while the sport continued to operate under the old agreement.
 On the field at Yankee Stadium before Game 6 of the World Series, Fehr announced to reporters that he and Levine had concluded an agreement two days earlier in Atlanta, one with no payroll cap.
 Just before the game began, Commissioner Bud Selig appeared in the press box and denied to a large group of reporters that a deal was in place. ''I would say they're still in the heavy negotiation stage,'' Selig said, stunning his listeners.
 The commissioner's assessment was also news to Levine and Fehr, not to mention the two panic-stricken officials from the commissioner's office who approached this reporter in the press box and urged him not to write what Selig had said. They feared that when Fehr read it, he would blow up the agreement.
 But it was written, and the agreement remained in place. Selig and some owners weren't happy with it, and Selig initially refused to recommend approval. That's why it took the owners two meetings three weeks apart to approve the deal. 
 By the second meeting Selig knew he had no choice but to recommend it. Some owners also had become outraged at what they felt was a betrayal by Jerry Reinsdorf, the Chicago White Sox owner, who had led the opposition to the agreement, arguing that the owners needed greater restraint on player salaries.
 As the two sides moved closer to an agreement, Reinsdorf signed Albert Belle, a free agent, to a five-year, $55 million contract.
 The owners didn't get their coveted payroll cap, but they got a luxury tax on payrolls over a designated threshold and they got a significant revenue-sharing plan. Those were ideological barriers the union had resisted but agreed to in lieu of a cap.
 Eight years and one peaceful negotiation later, players still earn millions of dollars and many low-revenue teams are making their presence felt in division and wild-card races. Ten years ago, how many people would have thought baseball would flourish in the early 21st century?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); INJUNCTIONS (71%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (68%) Baseball; Labor; Organized Labor

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (50%) Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



274 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 33 words

 BODY:
COPPER INCREASES. Copper prices rose on easing concerns about a slowdown in economic growth and demand. In New York, copper for September delivery rose 1.55 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $1.2725 a pound.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since Jan. 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COPPER MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%) Copper, Brass and Bronze; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



275 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 813 words

PERSON: Leon Golub

HEADLINE: Leon Golub, Painter on a Heroic Scale, Is Dead at 82

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Leon Golub, an American painter of expressionistic, heroic-scale figures that reflect dire modern political conditions, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan.
 The cause was complications after surgery, said his son Stephen, a professor of economics at Swarthmore College.
 Born in Chicago in 1922, Mr. Golub received a graduate degree from the Art Institute of Chicago in 1950; the following year he married the artist Nancy Spero. At the time Abstract Expressionism was considered by many to be the advanced style of the day. But from the start Mr. Golub was an artist in the figurative tradition, which was also thriving in the work of American artists as diverse as Ben Shahn and David Park. 
 Mr. Golub's interest in art of the past was broad and eclectic, running from African and pre-Columbian work to Greek and Roman sculpture and the work of Jacques-Louis David. His own painting was firmly rooted in a critically engaged version of Western humanism and in the tradition of history painting.
 His subject was Man with a capital M -- as a symbol of social and spiritual ambition, often irrational and destructive, depicted in paintings of monumental scale. 
 In the early 1950's he painted single, frontal figures that seem to belong to a mythical race of shamans or kings. In the 1960's he produced a series, called ''Gigantomachies,'' of battling, wrestling figures. They were based on classical models, including the Hellenistic Altar of Pergamon. But there was nothing idealized about them. Half abstract, they suggested knots of raw gristle and blood, an effect amplified by Mr. Golub's habit of scraping down the first layer of paint on a canvas, sometimes using a meat cleaver, to leave the final surface abraded and pitted. 
 By this time he had switched from oil paints to acrylics, a step that allowed him to work more loosely and quickly. The fleetness of his brushwork became an effective counterweight to the increasingly specific brutality of his subjects.
 In the ''Assassins'' series (1972-73) he exchanged mythological for modern figures in scenes of Western soldiers attacking Asian civilians that made direct references to the Vietnam War, which Mr. Golub vehemently opposed. His ''Mercenaries'' series in the 1980's focused on images of military and paramilitary violence, suggesting that this had become a global condition. 
 In the 1990's paintings of skeletons and snarling dogs had an apocalyptic tone. At the same time he returned to classical themes, as in a 1994 painting of Prometheus, and introduced texts and autobiographical elements. His last show of new work was this year, at Ronald Feldman Gallery in SoHo; it was called ''Erotica'' and was of female nudes.
 Mr. Golub and Ms. Spero lived in Paris from 1959 to 1964, then moved to New York City. Although they were stylistically different as artists, they were mutually influential and supportive as thinkers and had adjoining studios in Greenwich Village. 
 Active in left-radical causes and forthright in his opinions, Mr. Golub expressed conflicted feelings about the New York art establishment. He wanted to steer clear of it, and yet wanted to have his work acknowledged and visible. His art was out of sync with Minimalism and Conceptualism in the 1960's and 70's, but he was celebrated as a pioneering figure during the Neo-Expressionist phase in the early 80's and sustained attention through the early 90's, when there was a strong focus among younger artists on political work.
 A career survey, ''Leon Golub: Echoes of the Real,'' was organized by the Irish Museum of Modern Art in Dublin in 2000; a reduced version of the show traveled to the Brooklyn Museum in 2001. There were also smaller surveys at the New Museum for Contemporary Art in SoHo in 1984, the Malmo Konsthall in Sweden in 1993, and Bucknell Art Gallery in Lewiston, Pa., in 1999. 
 Mr. Golub was included in significant group exhibitions from the 1950's onward, most recently in Documenta XI in Kassel, Germany, in 2002. His art is in the permanent collections of major museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Tate Gallery in London. He is represented by Ronald Feldman Gallery and Andrew Roth in Manhattan, and since 1979 by the Rhona Hoffman Gallery in Chicago. He taught at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan and at Rutgers University in New Jersey.
 In addition to Ms. Spero and his son Stephen, of Swarthmore, Pa., he is survived by two other sons, Philip and Paul, both of Paris, and by six grandchildren.
 When asked in a 1991 interview in the journal Meaning what kept him motivated in a career than extended over half a century, Mr. Golub replied, ''Schizoid splits -- desperation to euphoria,'' and, ''daily working practice.'' Asked about his continuing and future goal he said, ''To head into real!''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Thursday about Leon Golub, a painter, misstated the location of the Bucknell Art Gallery, where his work was exhibited in 1999. It is in Lewisburg, Pa., not Lewiston.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Mercenaries IV,'' on linen, and part of a series from the 1980's, was typical of Mr. Golub's work in showing men in violent situations.
 Leon Golub at his 2001 retrospective at the Brooklyn Museum. (Photo by Suzanne Plunkett/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); VISUAL ARTISTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); CLASSICS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); ARMED FORCES (60%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (57%)

Holland Cotter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Art

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



276 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Namibia Marks Century-Old Massacre Amid Calls for German Compensation

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: BERLIN, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
A German minister left for Namibia on Wednesday amid calls by Namibia's government and human rights advocates for Germany to pay compensation for a massacre of Herero tribesmen in 1904 by its colonial troops.
 Germany's development minister, Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul, will attend a ceremony in Okakarara on Saturday marking the 100th anniversary of a revolt by the Herero people in southwest Africa against Kaiser Wilhelm's troops in which 65,000 of the 80,000 Hereros died.
 About 10,000 members of the Nama tribe were also killed in the massacre, which some historians call the first genocide of the 20th century. 
 Ms. Wieczorek-Zeul will also discuss regional development with the Namibian government and meet Herero representatives.
 ''In making this trip I want to mark Germany's particular political and moral responsibility for the past and its colonial guilt,'' Ms. Wieczorek-Zeul said in a statement. ''I would also like to emphasize Germany's special responsibility for Namibia.''
 Germany, which is Namibia's main source of development aid, has expressed ''deep regret'' for the killings, which almost eradicated the Herero tribe, but has ruled out paying compensation, and has not made a formal apology out of fear this could make it vulnerable to claims.
 Though the Herero people are using the anniversary to press their demand for reparations, the killings happened too long ago for them to file a civil suit in Germany. A $4 billion lawsuit that has been filed in the United States is thought to have limited chance of success.
 The Society for Threatened Peoples, a Berlin-based human rights group, said Ms. Wieczorek-Zeul's visit was a step in the right direction, but Ulrich Delius, the group's Africa representative, called on Ms. Wieczorek-Zeul to acknowledge Germany's guilt and not ''duck out of the issue,'' as he said Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer had done during his visit to Namibia in October 2003.
 Germany, which has paid billions in compensation for victims of the Nazis, has argued that the Herero people have no case for compensation because international laws on the protection of civilians did not exist at the time of the conflict.
 A former attorney general in Namibia, Veuii Rukoro, has dismissed this argument as ''not only an insult to the collective intelligence of mankind, but also a blatantly racist statement'' given Germany's payments to Jewish victims of the Nazi era.


GRAPHIC: Map of Namibia highlighting Okakarara: A ceremony in Okakarara will commemorate a 1904 massacre. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); HISTORY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LAWYERS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (61%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Freedom and Human Rights; Suits and Litigation; Herero Tribe

PERSON: Heidemarie (Min) Wieczorek-Zeul

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (95%); NAMIBIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Namibia; Germany; Okakarara (Namibia); Namibia

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



277 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: The Oil Market Refuses to Heed Positive News

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
World energy markets are so concerned about strong demand and possible disruptions of supplies that oil prices finished higher on Wednesday, even though Saudi Arabia announced that it had the capacity to pump 1.3 million more barrels a day immediately if needed. 
 Low-sulfur crude oil for delivery next month settled at $44.80 a barrel in New York, up 28 cents, after a turbulent day of bobbing up and down with each news development. The record price at the end of the day, set on Monday, is $44.84 a barrel; prices within pennies of $45 have been seen during trading several times this week. 
 Underlying the rising cost of oil in recent months has been strong global demand. The International Energy Agency, based in Paris, said in a report on Wednesday that the world's thirst for oil would be even greater in the rest of 2004 and in 2005 than it previously forecast, increasing pressure on producers to step up output at a time when rising oil prices could slow world economic recovery. 
 Though fears of supply disruptions in Iraq, the legal uncertainty surrounding the Russian oil giant Yukos, and surging demand in China have helped push prices to one record high after another recently, the agency's report took note of increasing production in Saudi Arabia and Russia and tried to dispel concerns about a fundamental shortage of oil. 
 Traders on the commodities markets have had to contend with often contradictory news from major suppliers. Yukos, which produces 2 percent of the world's oil, is the target of a tax-fraud investigation in Russia that may result in claims up to $10 billion against the company, while its founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, is being tried on criminal charges. Bank accounts of Yukos, Russia's leading oil producer, have been frozen, unfrozen and then frozen again, while dire warnings of asset seizures or imminent shutdowns have been issued, denied, renewed and postponed. 
 In Iraq, shipments through the Persian Gulf were interrupted for a time on Tuesday after the Iraqi government received warnings of possible attacks, and exports from the country's northern pipeline through Turkey are at a standstill. 
 ''The market is tight, production and infrastructure capacity is less than desired, and uncertainties continue to weigh on the market,'' the report said. ''But does this justify $45 oil? Current oil prices are a concern and are causing economic damage.''
 Saudi Arabia, the world's largest exporter, took a concrete tack. The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, announced that his country had stepped up output by one million barrels a day in recent months, to more than 9.3 million barrels a day, and had the ability to do more.
 ''The kingdom,'' Mr. Naimi said in a statement, ''is well prepared to meet all the requirements of the international oil companies if they need additional volumes, relying on its surplus production capacity of more than 1.3 million barrels daily, which could be used immediately if required.'' 
 Traders who had bid up oil futures at the start of the day shifted gears, and prices fell sharply. 
 ''The Saudis are trying to calm the market now and said they're ready to provide the barrels needed,'' Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, said. ''That's a welcome comment.'' 
 But by the afternoon, prices reversed again, partly in reaction to new statistics from the Energy Department showing that inventories of crude oil in the United States fell unexpectedly last week. Gasoline supplies also fell. By the end of the day, any market effect from the Saudi announcement seemed to have been erased.
 The International Energy Agency's report projected global oil demand at 82.2 million barrels a day this year and 84 million barrels a day in 2005, about 730,000 barrels more than previously forecast. The author of the report, Klaus Rehaag, said in a telephone interview that the new figures recognized that demand for oil had been underestimated. 
 Mr. Goldstein said of the report, ''The I.E.A. has finally come around to the realization that global oil demand is strong and rising, fueled by a recovering global economy.'' 
 The report said that demand from China, which has been growing at a ''sizzling'' rate since the second half of 2003, may slow in the second half of this year, as Beijing moves to keep its heated economy from getting out of control.
 The agency said the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, whose members account for about a third of the world's oil supply, appeared to be close to full production. OPEC, which had seven million barrels a day of spare capacity as recently as 2002, was down to about 500,000 barrels a day of ''effective'' idle capacity, the agency found; the figures excluded countries like Iraq, Venezuela, Nigeria and Indonesia, where disruptions, strikes or civil unrest stood in the way of increased output. 
 The figures did not take into account the Saudi announcement on Wednesday. Some analysts expressed skepticism that the new oil the Saudis were talking about could make much difference in the market, because it is mainly heavy and high in sulfur; demand for that type of oil is much weaker than for the benchmark light sweet grade because it is more difficult and expensive to refine. 
 ''I basically don't think there is any spare capacity left'' for light sweet crude oil, said Adam Sieminski, global oil strategist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''If you have a hiccup anywhere in the world, you can have prices well above $50 or more.''
 For its part, OPEC has increased its official production quotas twice since a meeting in Beirut in June. Actual production by the group's 11 members has outstripped the largely symbolic official goal of 26 million barrels a day; on average, they pumped some 29.1 million barrels a day last month. Excluding Iraq, where production has been disrupted by armed insurgency, OPEC produced 27.1 million barrels a day in July, 145,000 barrels a day more than in June. 
 Analysts said there was little more that OPEC could do to push prices down at its next scheduled meeting, on Sept. 15 in Vienna. 
 Total world supply from all producers rose 550,000 barrels a day in July, to 83.5 million, the International Energy Agency said. It estimated that non-OPEC producers would increase their output by 1.2 million barrels a day by the end of the year.
 The agency, founded by major oil-consuming countries in the aftermath of the Arab oil embargo of 1973-74, said in its report that the industrial nations had more than 1.4 billion barrels of oil in strategic reserves that could be released in an emergency. None have been tapped since 1991, after Iraq invaded Kuwait. 
 In May, in a report published with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the agency warned that if oil prices remained above $35 a barrel -- that is, $10 or more above their 2001 levels -- world economic growth in the following year would be reduced by at least half a percentage point.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A delivery driver preparing to fill underground tanks in Glendale, Calif. Gasoline inventories fell last week. (Photo by Robyn Beck/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C5)Graph: ''Market Turbulence''Oil prices fluctuated sharply yesterday on news about world oil supply and demand for the rest of the year.Graph tracks the price of near-month oil contracts, yesterday, minute by minute.The International Energy Agency says worldwide demand will be higher in 2004 and 2005 than previously forecast.Saudi Arabia says that it can pump more oil to meet rising demand.The U.S. Energy Dept. says oil industry inventories have fallen.CLOSE: $44.80, up 28 cents(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX FRAUD (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Futures and Options Trading; Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (59%) International Energy Agency

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

PERSON: jad mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (87%); GULF STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHINA (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



278 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: 9/11 Aid Dispersal Downtown Said to Favor Corporate Interests

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
A budget watchdog group said yesterday that the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation had favored corporate interests and had approved millions of dollars in contracts with organizations connected to the corporation board.
 ''The 9/11 attacks had a disproportionately harmful economic impact on low- and middle-income residents,'' said the group, Good Jobs New York, in an assessment of how the corporation has been spending federal redevelopment money. ''Yet the L.M.D.C. has primarily focused on the priorities of powerful businesses and major property owners.'' 
 Bettina Damiani and Stephanie Greenwood, the authors of the assessment, said board members had done nothing unethical or illegal, and had been ''careful to recuse themselves'' from votes involving their organizations. They said organizations with ties to board members had received $112.4 million in grants.
 Kevin M. Rampe, the president of the corporation, said it was ''not surprising'' that board members were involved with organizations and projects financed by the corporation, since they were chosen in part for their involvement downtown. 
 ''We rely on them to provide us with their experience and expertise,'' he said. Not only do they stay out of votes involving their organizations, he said, they also have ''no day-to-day involvement'' with the corporation's side of such projects.
 As to the larger assessment that the corporation had favored big business, officials said that Good Jobs New York had skewed its own analysis by ignoring $281 million in residential grants and $350 million in business retention and recovery grants. They also took issue with a number of facts in the report.
 Good Jobs New York, affiliated with the Fiscal Policy Institute and the Good Jobs First organization, analyzes and criticizes economic development deals, incentives and subsidies. It said that financing for its new assessment of Lower Manhattan reconstruction programs was provided by the Rockefeller Foundation.
 Of the total $2.78 billion in federal grants administered by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, $1.85 billion has been allocated.
 In its newest allocation proposal, now out for public comment, the corporation calls for spending $65.3 million, of which $35 million would go to planning and preparation for the World Trade Center site memorial. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); FOUNDATIONS (73%) Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Finances; Ethics; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Good Jobs New York (Orgn); Lower Manhattan Development Corp

PERSON: David W Dunlap; Kevin Rampe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



279 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Islamic economic principles may sound like just what the Middle East needs. In practice, things are more complicated.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness'' (HarperCollins).

 BODY:
THE 9/11 Commission report pointedly criticizes the idea of a generic threat from terrorism. ''The catastrophic threat at this moment in history is more specific,'' the commission writes. ''It is the threat posed by Islamist terrorism.'' 
 Islamists, who favor political rule based on Islamic principles, see liberal Western societies, particularly the United States, as godless and barbarous. They argue that the Muslim world has fallen behind the West economically and militarily because Muslims have strayed from the pure religious practice of Muhammad's time. 
 As the commission report suggests, Americans know this theocratic ideology primarily as a spur to terrorism, not as a set of ideas and policies worthy of critical examination.
 But Islamists do offer economic and social prescriptions that can be subjected to the same analytical and empirical scrutiny as any other policies. That scrutiny is particularly important for Muslim countries where Islamists play a significant role in politics.
 In a new book, ''Islam and Mammon: The Economic Predicaments of Islamism'' (Princeton University Press), Timur Kuran, professor of economics and law and the King Faisal professor of Islamic thought and culture at the University of Southern California, looks at the cluster of ideas known as Islamic economics.
 This concept, he notes, is a 20th-century one, developed in India before independence, when many Muslims worried that they would become an oppressed minority in a Hindu-ruled state. Some feared that Muslims might be so marginalized that they would lose their identity.
 One response was Muslim nationalism, which led to the creation of Pakistan. Another was cultural separatism, which was promoted by Sayyid Abul-Ala Mawdudi, the founder of Pakistani Islamism.
 Islamic economics was one of many terms -- including Islamic sociology, Islamic democracy and Islamic constitutionalism -- that Mawdudi used to give Western concepts a Muslim identity. 
 The goal, Professor Kuran said in an interview, was ''to prove to Indians, but also to the world at large, that Muslims had a completely different lifestyle: to be a Muslim is to live differently.''
 In the 1940's, he said, nobody really knew what Islamic economics was. Historically, Muslims did not have distinctive economic practices. 
 In recent decades, Islamic economics has come to mean three things, all supposedly rooted in the ''golden age'' of seventh-century Arabia: a ban on interest, a wealth tax known as zakat, and honesty and altruism in commercial dealings.
 In his book, Professor Kuran compares the ideal versions of these practices with the reality. Not surprisingly, he finds that in economic life even the most promising ideas tend to be modified, if not corrupted entirely. That is especially true in countries with weak civil societies and legal systems.
 Take Islamic banking, which spread with the booming oil wealth of the 1970's. Instead of charging interest, Islamic banks are supposed to share profits and losses with the enterprises they finance.
 If you read an Islamic bank's charter, Professor Kuran said, ''you will say, 'What a magnificent institution this is -- exactly what the Middle East needs.''' Islamic banks are supposed to act like venture capital funds, investing in good ideas from people who do not have the connections or collateral to get loans from conventional banks.
 But Islamic banks learned the hard way that risk sharing does not work in countries where businesses keep false accounting records. ''Many people came to borrow money with wonderful ideas, and they just walked away with the money,'' Professor Kuran said. The banks could not reliably audit the books, and if they took a client to court, the business would just claim a loss.
 Consequently, the banks all started charging what amounted to interest for loans. 
 The most common way around the interest ban is known as murabaha. The bank buys a capital good, a computer, say, for a client, who agrees to buy it back, with a markup, at a particular time in the future. In effect, the markup represents interest.
 Islamic banks also invest in debt securities and pay depositors returns that fluctuate with prevailing interest rates. They act like money market funds.
 ''A minuscule portion -- generally well under 5 percent -- of the assets of Islamic banks consist of loans based on genuine profit and loss sharing,'' writes Professor Kuran. He argues that the Koran's famous ban on ''riba'' is not, in fact, a ban on ordinary interest, which moneylenders have charged throughout Islamic history. Riba, he writes, was a pre-Islamic practice in which a ''borrower saw his debt double following a default and redouble if he defaulted again.''
 Riba often left borrowers enslaved until they paid off their debts. As with modern bankruptcy law, banning riba limited the penalties for default.
 Islamic banks and businesses have their merits. In rapidly growing cities, they often provide valuable social services and give newcomers a trustworthy network of commercial contacts. In theory, an ''Islamic subeconomy'' could serve specific religious needs, just as halal butchers (or kosher ones, in Jewish communities) do.
 But the positive effects of these organizations are undercut by their broader agenda. Islamic economists not only want their own banks, Professor Kuran writes. They ''desire new regulations that would force all banks to limit themselves to variable earnings and commitments.''
 ''And they want interest-based banking outlawed.''
 Islamic economics, he writes, ''has promoted the spread of antimodern, and in some respects deliberately anti-Western, currents of thought all across the Islamic world.''
 Strangely, the Islamist version of history eliminates everything from the mid-seventh century to the colonial period. Islamists ignore the many examples of advanced Muslim societies.
 ''One need only think about the high periods of the Abbasid Caliphate, Muslim Spain, Safavid Iran, the Ottoman Empire, and Mughal India,'' Professor Kuran writes. He began researching Islamic economic history after realizing that Islamist accounts omit so much of it.
 ''I felt that they did not understand the immense strengths of that civilization,'' he says, ''and they were in no position to understand what went wrong.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A trader at the Saudi Investment Bank in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. A new book says that Islamic economics is a modern invention, meant to give Muslims a distinct identity. (Photo by Patrick Baz/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); ISLAMIC BANKING (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Islam; Books and Literature

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Timur (Prof) Kuran

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Middle East

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



280 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Singapore Looks to Its New Leader to Restore Old Economic Glow

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
On the eve of the swearing-in of the new leader, Lee Hsien Loong, the government released a gusher of good news, including an upbeat forecast that suggested Singapore would be this year's fastest-growing major Asian economy after China.
 Under the long rule of his father, Lee Kwan Yew, when Singapore rapidly grew from being a third world backwater to first world wonder, such pre-eminence was de rigueur.
 But that was when Singapore, the country with no natural resources except the brains and hard work of its people, had few competitors. 
 In the last few years, the regional giants, China and India, have sucked away manufacturing jobs. Closer to home, Malaysia and Thailand, with thriving modern capitals, are competing with Singapore as never before.
 The question now, Singaporeans ask, is whether Singapore's heyday is over or whether the Cambridge- and Harvard-educated son of the modern state's founder can bring back some of the old glow.
 The answer, according to The Business Times, is that the first act will be hard to follow.
 In a sobering editorial on Wednesday, the newspaper said that the 8 to 9 percent growth the government predicted would be hard to sustain. Unemployment remained stuck at 4.5 percent, a high for Singapore. The Singapore consumer, who usually loves to shop, was largely staying at home.
 The newspaper said the economy badly needed what it called ''more growth drivers.'' It recommended ''untapped services like media, entertainment and arts-related services.''
 But these industries thrive best in an open society, and in strictly ruled Singapore the boundaries of such an open society are broached only gingerly by most people.
 In January, in a speech at the Harvard Club of Singapore, Mr. Lee, the prime minister-designate, discussed his vision of a more open society. ''I have no doubt that our society must open up further,'' he said. ''Nanny should not look after everything all the time.''
 Mr. Lee promised that new freedoms introduced into Singapore in the past year -- bar-top dancing and bungee jumping -- were ''surface'' reforms that would lead to greater change.
 (He did not mention the slight relaxation in film censorship laws or that chewing gum, which had been banned for years, had made its way back into Singapore. During negotiations on a free trade agreement with the United States, Singapore allowed sugarless American chewing gum with ''therapeutic benefits'' to be sold in pharmacies here.) 
 But at the same time, Mr. Lee was firm about how much real discussion would be tolerated.
 ''Not all policies are amenable to public consultation,'' he told the Harvard Club. ''Security issues are often by nature secret, and foreign policy is best not consulted in the public arena. Tax matters are both market sensitive and difficult to debate productively.''
 Moreover, he said, there was no way that the tightly controlled media in Singapore would be allowed to follow the ''agenda-setting'' style of American newspapers and television. ''We will not ape others blindly and do something simply because it appears fashionable,'' he said.
 Mr. Lee said the opposition was entitled to criticize a policy to show that the government was not providing good leadership.
 But, using stern language, he added, ''The government has to rebut or even demolish them, or lose its moral authority.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); CENSORSHIP (71%); FILM (64%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (62%); POLITICS (62%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government ; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: LEE HSIEN LOONG (90%) Jane Perlez; Lee Hsien Loong (Deputy Prime Min); Lee Kuan Yew (Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (98%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%) Singapore; China; India; Singapore

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



281 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: When the Power Goes Out, the Sun Still Rises

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WHEATON, Md. 

 BODY:
WHEN the Rev. George Buchanan and his wife, Harlene, put $19,000 worth of solar electric panels on their roof here two years ago, they did it as a matter of principle, not to save money. Someday the earth will run out of fuel to burn, or ruin the atmosphere trying, the Buchanans said, and someone has to take the plunge and try something better. 
 Thousands of people have been drawn by the same logic, and by the idea that the sun works every day, even if the electric system fails as it did during the big Northeast blackout one year ago this week.
 ''It's the right thing to do,'' said Mr. Buchanan, 82, a retired professor of New Testament theology at the Wesley Theological Seminary in Washington. 
 In the 1980's, solar energy was pitched as a path to energy independence. More recently, the rationales have shifted toward the pleasure of ownership, coupled with the attraction of a fallback source of power.
 Few solar advocates expect the investment to pay off quickly, even when softened by tax rebates and other subsidies. And few install enough panels or batteries for total independence. The Buchanans, for example, generate only about a third of their power during a given 24 hours, saving about a dollar in the process.
 With out-of-pocket costs at about $13,000, their system will pay for itself by 2037, assuming electricity costs stay the same -- and their equipment lasts that long.
 What they appreciate right now is the step toward self sufficiency. Every evening Mrs. Buchanan, 74, takes a spiral notebook out to the garage to jot down the number of kilowatt-hours generated, just as she used to record the eggs in the henhouse every morning on the family farm in Kansas during the Depression. On sunny days, the couple sell surplus power back to the Potomac Electric Power Company at 7.4 cents a kilowatt-hour.
 When the sun sets or disappears behind a cloud, the meter runs the other way.
 ''It isn't financially sound,'' Mr. Buchanan acknowledged as he stood on his roof, which he visits four times a year to adjust the angle of the panels.
 Clean, quiet and homegrown, solar power appeals to early adopters, including many businesses, electric companies and homeowners. Sales of solar cells in the United States increased sevenfold between 1993 and 2002, according to the Energy Information Administration. (Information on home solar systems is at www.nrel.gov/solar, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory's Web site.)
 Prices for solar panels have come down about 40 percent in the last decade, but economies remain elusive. When the equipment is amortized, solar ends up costing about 25 cents a kilowatt-hour, about four times the cost of conventional electricity.
 Mr. Buchanan says he likes to take the long view. ''Sooner or later, they will have to get better,'' he said of emerging solar technologies. And dropping $19,000 on a solar system is no less rational than spending as much on a swimming pool or a new kitchen, proponents point out.
 The Buchanans' photovoltaic panels generate direct current. An inverter in the garage converts this to alternating current, the kind that comes out of an electric outlet.
 Having a system that works when the utility company does not requires a bank of batteries, a step the Buchanans have not taken. In such a system, the panels charge the batteries continuously. To work during a blackout, the house's electric service has to be rewired in order to draw power from the batteries.
 A system can also be set up with no inverter to generate direct current, which can be used for laptops and some lights and refrigerators. A less expensive solar system can also be set up without an inverter, for people who can use direct current. This system is often the choice for vacation cabins deep in the woods.
 Then there are solar thermal systems -- rooftop panels that collect heat in a mixture of water and antifreeze. The fluid is pumped to the basement, where it heats water for tap use or to warm the house. Where electricity is especially expensive, experts say, these systems can be cheaper in the long run than conventional water heaters. 
 In all cases, upfront costs are high. Photovoltaic cells and their trappings cost about $10 for every watt of capacity at maximum output, when the sun is directly overhead. A typical refrigerator draws about 300 watts, a hair dryer about 1,500 watts. (Electrical consumption over time is measured in kilowatt-hours, or the number of watts, in thousands, times the number of hours.)
 But even a big system like the Buchanans', which covers a fair chunk of their roof, generates only a portion of the kilowatt-hours a household consumes. Mrs. Buchanan said that on her best day, the system provided 17 kilowatt-hours. On her worst, it was less than 1.
 Solar water-heating systems also run into the thousands of dollars, the cost depending on capacity. By comparison, investments in energy efficiency are a bargain. And some renewable energy advocates say that it makes more sense to buy wind power from one of the independent turbine-generators that have sprung up than to go solar. 
 But solar energy enthusiasts are not dissuaded. Molly Hauck, a psychologist in Rockville, Md., has a photovoltaic system on her roof similar to the one at the Buchanans'.
 ''I know the sun is coming in, even on gray days,'' she said. ''The sun is creating power, and it makes me happy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: EMPOWERMENT -- The Rev. George Buchanan, far left, says the solar panels on his Maryland roof, left, offer satisfaction, even if they don't save money. On sunny days, he and his wife, Harlene, left, sell surplus electricity back to the utility. But most of the time the meter runs the other way. (Photographs by Jay Talbott for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RELIGION (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); FAMILY FARMS (66%) Electric Light and Power; Solar Energy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: PEPCO HOLDINGS INC (64%)

TICKER: POM (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (64%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (64%)

PERSON: George (Rev) Buchanan; Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%) Wheaton (Md)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



282 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: Donor Mistrust Worsens AIDS In Zimbabwe

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE

DATELINE: MABVUKU, Zimbabwe 

 BODY:
Edson Muchenjekwa says he spent three weeks persuading Alista Bhero to overcome her rage at her husband, Khemist, for infecting her with H.I.V., which has rendered her all but immobile at 42. He does not intend to waste her time discussing a treatment. 
 In Zimbabwe, where 1.8 million people are H.I.V. positive and 360,000 need life prolonging antiretroviral drugs, virtually the only ones who get them are the 5,000 who can afford them. The Bheros are not among that select few. 
 So instead, said Mr. Muchenjekwa, a local charity worker, he will help the Bheros draft a will disposing of their home, a four-room concrete-block cube in this teeming township outside Harare, Zimbabwe's capital. Then he will try to steel them to tell the six Bhero children that they are about to become orphans. 
 He does not relish the task. ''It is not easy to face death,'' he said. 
 In fact, the Bhero family is facing the sort of tragedy that unfolds daily throughout southern Africa, the region hardest hit by an escalating AIDS epidemic. Zimbabwe, however, is different. Relief workers here estimate that fewer than 1,000 Zimbabweans receive antiretroviral drugs free through government or charitable programs, with little hope of expanding that number. 
 In contrast, every neighboring country is giving antiretrovirals to 2 to 15 times as many people -- and planning to expand treatment to tens of thousands more within a year. 
 The principal reason Zimbabwe is falling behind is that President Robert G. Mugabe's increasingly repressive government has lost foreign donors' trust that it will fairly or honestly channel money for antiretroviral drugs to those who need it. Major foreign supporters in the battle against the disease -- the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the World Bank, the United States and Britain -- are skirting Zimbabwe or giving it a trickle of aid compared with the torrent they are unleashing on governments they deem more reliable. That, many here say, poses a wrenching question: Is it right to withhold life-saving aid from a population because its rulers are viewed as likely to manipulate that aid for political ends -- or worse, steal it? 
 In Zimbabwe, where roughly one in four adults is infected with H.I.V. and more than 2,500 people a week die of AIDS, relief workers do not consider the question academic. 
 The plight of this nation of more than 11 million people is evident at Harare Central Hospital, where workers say just 23 patients are receiving antiretroviral treatment and no more can be started until next year because of lack on money. It is obvious at the Parirenyatwa city hospital, where, local news reports say, the morgue reeks of bodies of AIDS victims whose relatives cannot afford to bury them.
 And it can be seen at one seven-year-old cemetery south of Harare, where more than 14,000 people have already been buried just 18 inches apart, and workers say they dig about 25 graves each day. On the crowded streets of Mabvuku, Mr. Muchenjekwa said, 50 people a day come to Island Hospice, where he works, to seek help for the dying. 
 A neighbor, he says, alerted the organization to the Bheros' case. Mrs. Bhero tried to sum up the situation last week in her tiny living room, her 2-year-old son on her lap: ''Our life is just falling apart. We don't know what to do. We are panicking.'' 
 So, to some degree, are Zimbabwean health officials. Last month they lost in a bid for $218 million from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. One United Nations official said evaluations raised concerns, including whether Zimbabwe's government could be trusted to enlist independent groups in its AIDS fight. ''I am very angry about it because many people are going to die because of these heartless people,'' David Parirenyatwa, Zimbabwe's minister of health, said in an interview last month with The Standard, an independent weekly. 
 The government has refused to comment to foreign reporters. 
 Officials from the Global Fund and other relief agencies say heartlessness has nothing to do with it. Rather, they say they are trying to save as many lives as possible without channeling money to untrustworthy governments. Critics of Mr. Mugabe note that his government has persecuted political opponents, all but shut down the independent media and seized land from white farmers, shriveling farm output and driving the economy into the ground. 
 ''They are not spending their money well, so why would they spend ours well?'' asked a European diplomat whose government had restricted aid. The Bush administration came to much the same conclusion, excluding Zimbabwe last year from the president's five-year, $15 billion emergency AIDS plan that focuses on 12 African countries, plus Haiti, Vietnam and Guyana. 
 The United States is spending just $20 million a year to battle AIDS in Zimbabwe, one-third less than it has devoted to Botswana, a nation with less than one-sixth Zimbabwe's population. The British government gives about $11 million a year -- and would give more, a spokesman suggested, if Mr. Mugabe made political and economic changes. The World Bank, which has granted more than $1 billion to other African countries to fight AIDS, pulled out of Zimbabwe four years ago after the government defaulted on its debts. So did the International Monetary Fund and the Danes, who had given millions every year to humanitarian and development projects in Zimbabwe. 
 But it was the rejection from the Global Fund, designed to pool contributions from all foreign donors and to distribute them on an apolitical basis, that brought home Zimbabwe's isolation. Zimbabwe sought money to provide antiretroviral drugs to 70,000 people -- less than one-fifth of those in need. 
 Although Global Fund officials insisted that the rejection was not politically motivated and could be appealed, many relief workers here took it as a sign that international donors had dealt Zimbabwe a death sentence. 
 ''I personally feel this is very unfair,'' said Bernard Mokam, program director for the United Nations's development agency here. ''I personally do not comprehend that the donor community could continue to refuse to support people in need for political reasons. H.I.V.-AIDS should be dealt with as a humanitarian issue. This is just unacceptable.'' 
 Still, no one, including Mr. Mokam, disputes that Zimbabwe's government is making life difficult for donors and the charities they subsidize even when, as in the case of AIDS, the government pledges its full cooperation. Fear that the government will misspend the money has delayed release of a $10 million AIDS grant from the Global Fund that was approved two years ago. 
 That sort of mistrust permeates relations between the government and outsiders seeking to help it. For example, Mr. Mugabe's government not only forced the United Nations in the spring to scale back a general feeding program that has sustained millions during three years of crop failures, but barred United Nations specialists from measuring the fall harvest that ended in June. 
 The government insists a bumper crop will more than cover the nation's needs. But foreign specialists say they suspect Mr. Mugabe is reducing foreign food aid in advance of next year' s national election so that he can reward supporters with warehoused stocks of government maize, and withhold it from opponents. 
 Mr. Mugabe also keeps nongovernmental organizations on a short leash -- and intends to restrain them further. Zimbabwe's few remaining donors of drugs and medical services tend to bypass the Harare government by channeling AIDS donations to local nongovernmental organizations or giving them directly to clinics or laboratories. But in July, Mr. Mugabe announced that the government would rein in nongovernmental organizations that are ''conduits or instruments of interference in our national affairs.'' 
 A draft government bill would ban foreign groups involved in ''issues of governance'' from operating in the country. Although the legislation is apparently directed at human rights groups, leaders of charities involved in AIDS work say it is yet another sign of tightening control. 
 All that adds up to what Mr. Mokam, the United Nations development official in Harare, diplomatically describes as ''an extremely challenging environment'' in which to battle an epidemic. Even his agency, which is trying to act as a bridge between Zimbabwe and the international community, has adopted a more cautious approach toward its work in Zimbabwe. 
 After United Nations and Zimbabwean officials failed in negotiations to agree on an assessment of the country's situation, including the government's attitude toward human rights, United Nations officials decided to extend development assistance for just two years, rather than the five-year program that is standard for most developing nations. 
 "We could not commit to a five-year program,'' Mr. Mokam said. ''We don't know where this country will be in five years.'' 
 Stella Monda, 39, a mother of three, does not expect to live long enough to find out. Her husband, an accountant for a local company, died 14 years ago of AIDS. Her glazed eyes and history of hospitalization suggest she soon will follow him. 
 Her 12-year-old son, her youngest, is also infected with the virus. In an interview last week, she said she had no idea who would look after him and his two older sisters. Of Ms. Monda's six siblings, four have died of AIDS. ''Those who I expected would look after my children have all died,'' she said. 
 She expects nothing from her husband's relatives. After he died, she said, they took everything the couple owned, leaving her with a few stools, plates and a hot plate. She now lives in her parents' house in Mabvuku without even a table -- and no food to serve when her last, small plastic container of cornmeal runs out. 
 She say she survives on the generosity of neighbors and tries to ward off constant waves of depression by crocheting. 
 ''My aspirations are gone,'' she said. ''What I expected from life is no longer the case. I wanted to fend for my family. To have my children lead a decent life. To send them to school. To eat good food. To have a furnished house. 
 ''I can't do any of that any more,'' she said. AIDS ''has wrecked everything for me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Stella Monda, 39, whose husband died of AIDS, said she expected it to kill her, too. She wondered who would care for her daughter Chido, left, 17, and two other children. The youngest, 12, is H.I.V. positive.
 Alista and Khemist Bhero, both infected with H.I.V., must prepare their six children, including Tendayi (left), 2, to become orphans. (Photographs by The New York Times)(pg. A6)Chart: ''A Nation's Crisis Burgeons''2003 statistics concerning Zimbabwe's AIDS epidemic:Estimated number of people infected with H.I.V., end of 2003:Total: 1.8 millionAdults Age 15-49: 1.5 millionChildren Age 0-14: 165,000Women Age 15-49: 870,000Estimated new infections and deaths during 2003:AdultsNEW INFECTIONS: 166,000DEATHS: 135,000ChildrenNEW INFECTIONS: 40,000DEATHS: 36,000WomenNEW INFECTIONS: 88,000DEATHS: 77,000Estimated number of orphans:Total: 1.3 millionNumber of orphans due to AIDS: 980,000(Sources by UNAIDS, UNICEF, USAID, Zimbabwe National H.I.V. and AIDS Estimates 2003, Children on the Brink 2004)(pg. A6)Map of Zimbabwe highlighting Mabvuku: In Mabvuku and Zimbabwe few H.I.V. patients get proper care. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ANTIVIRALS (91%); CHARITIES (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MALARIA (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); TUBERCULOSIS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); EPIDEMICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ETHICS (64%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Foreign Aid; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); United States International Relations; Ethics; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Philanthropy; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%) Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Sharon Lafraniere; Robert (Pres) Mugabe

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%) ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%) Zimbabwe; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



283 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Peru Is Managing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Peruvians Tire of Toledo, but Worry About Ousting Him'' (news article, Aug. 5) leaves an impression of uncertainty and political instability in Peru. In our opinion, this is not true. Although our country has challenges, President Alejandro Toledo and his government are managing our country through development and democratic stability.
 President Toledo has denied any involvement in corruption. He voluntarily ordered that his bank accounts be opened so that they can be investigated. 
 The fight against corruption is essential for a strong, stable democracy. Thus, the Toledo government is fighting the corruption left by Alberto K. Fujimori's government.
 The Toledo government is promoting a free-market economy with a yearly growth of 4 percent and fostering social policies to fight poverty.
 On the day your article appeared, gas from the Camisea project reached Lima; this energy project will increase Peru's gross domestic product by 1 percent every year for the next 30 years. 
 And this week, Peru and Bolivia signed a landmark trade agreement and a letter of intent to export natural gas through a Peruvian port.

Eduardo Ferrero
Ambassador of Peru
Washington, Aug. 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TRENDS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

PERSON: Eduardo (Amb) Ferrero; Alejandro (Pres) Toledo

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) Peru

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



284 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; An Appraisal; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Gardens in the Air Where the Rail Once Ran

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
A team of New York-based architects led by Field Operations and Diller, Scofidio & Renfro has been selected to design a master plan that would transform an abandoned section of elevated freight track into a public park that would weave its way north from the meatpacking district to Hell's Kitchen, two stories above the city.
 The city and Friends of the High Line, a nonprofit group that has been overseeing the development of the High Line elevated track, have yet to officially announce the selection, which was made last week. City officials and members of the architectural team still have to work out the details of a design contract that could eventually encompass a series of public gardens, a swimming pool, an outdoor theater and food halls, a project running for more than 20 city blocks from Gansevoort Street to West 34th Street.
 Nonetheless, the selection marks a critical step in one of the most compelling urban planning initiatives in the city's recent history. The preliminary design succeeds in preserving the High Line's tough industrial character without sentimentalizing it. Instead, it creates a seamless blend of new and old, one rooted in the themes of decay and renewal that have long captivated the imagination of urban thinkers. 
 Perhaps more important, the design confirms that even in a real estate climate dominated by big development teams and celebrity architects, thoughtful, creative planning ideas -- initiated at the grass-roots level -- can lead to startlingly original results. As the process continues, the issue will be whether the project's advocates can maintain such standards in the face of increasing commercial pressures. 
 Architects have fantasized about the High Line since at least the early 1980's, when Steven Holl first completed a theoretical proposal to build a ''bridge of houses'' that straddled the elevated tracks. Property owners considered the line an urban blight, and only a few years ago they were lobbying for its demolition. Friends of the High Line defeated that effort, in part by convincing Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and city planning officials that a revamped High Line could act as a spur to urban renewal. Eventually, the site was conceived as a public promenade, one that could be used to bind together the communities that lie beneath it. 
 The city planning office, meanwhile, devised a plan that would allow property owners below the High Line to transfer their development rights to other sites within the district. Friends of the High Line has also raised $3.5 million in private money for the project. The city has committed another $15.75 million over the next four years.
 The strength of the Field Operations design is its ability to reflect a sense of communal mission without wiping away the site's historical character. These competing interests are balanced with exquisite delicacy.
 The architects begin by creating a system of concrete planks that taper slightly at either end. The planks will be laid out along the High Line's deck in parallel bands, creating a pedestrian walkway that meanders back and forth as it traces the path of the elevated tracks, occasionally fading away to make room for a series of colorful gardens.
 The gardens embody competing forces -- some wild, others carefully cultivated. At various points along the deck, for example, the existing landscape of meadow grass, wildflowers, weeds and gravel will be preserved. At other points, that landscape will be replaced by an explosion of vividly colored fields and birch trees.
 The idea is to create a virtually seamless flow between past and future realities, a blend of urban grit and cosmopolitan sophistication. But it is also to slow the process of change, to focus the eye on the colliding forces -- both natural and man-made -- that give cities their particular beauty. That vision has a more subversive, social dimension: to offer a more measured alternative to the often brutal pace of gentrification.
 There are few better vantage points for observing the city's evolution than the High Line. From the gardens, for example, various views would open up to the surrounding cityscape. Framed by the surrounding buildings, they would offer visual relief from the isolated world above. At the same time, they would set up a rhythm as one strolls along the concrete deck, between spectacular urban vistas and the more contemplative world of the gardens. 
 The tranquility of that experience would be interrupted by a series of carefully calibrated public events. In some places, for example, the concrete path is to dip below the level of the gardens, allowing pedestrians to observe street life below. Above 23rd Street, another section of the deck would peel up to create an informal outdoor amphitheater. Just beyond the stage, a section of the deck would be cut away, creating a stunning view of cars streaming by below. The opening is to be framed by a perfectly manicured lawn -- a nod, perhaps, to the more conventionally suburban vision of park planning that extends a few blocks away along the Hudson River.
 Further to the north, a public swimming pool would be embedded into the deck's concrete surface. Like much of the design, the pool is only a sketch -- the beginning of an idea -- but it is an intriguing one nonetheless. A large concrete panel lifts up at one end of the pool to support a faux urban beach. Concrete piers extend out into the water like giant fingers.
 The power of such gestures lies in their simplicity. As architectural objects, they are relatively mundane. Their meaning arises from their relationship to the immediate context.
 The design's greatest weakness, in fact, occurs when the architecture gets more elaborate. Currently, the High Line ends abruptly at Gansevoort Street, its steel beams and concrete deck protruding above the roof of a warehouse like a severed limb. This would eventually become one of the project's main gateways. The architects have proposed a grand stair that leads up to the gardens, flanked by a gallery space and rooftop market. Just above the market, the large, glass-enclosed form of a bar would jut out over the stair.
 The idea is to tap into the meatpacking district's vibrant social life in order to energize the High Line's public gardens. But the architecture is bland. And the impulse is at odds with the lightness of touch that characterizes the rest of the design. Worse, it comes perilously close to conventional development formulas: a high-end mall for downtown sophisticates. What one longs for here is a more gentle entry, one that would allow the public to slip into the gardens virtually unnoticed.
 Such issues can easily be corrected as the design process unfolds. But they point to what may ultimately be the greatest threat to the project's success: regulating access to the site. The High Line has already begun to spark the interest of developers, who understand its potential as an agent for raising real estate values. The developer Marshall Rose is working with Frank Gehry on a proposal for a mixed-use development that would straddle the High Line near 18th Street. The hotelier Andre Balazs, meanwhile, is negotiating to purchase a site that adjoins the High Line just below 13th Street, a lot that was once slated for a project by the celebrated French architect Jean Nouvel.
 In an effort to take advantage of that interest, city planners have envisioned a series of incentives that would reward developers who include public access to the High Line in their plans. The scheme would also allow developers to connect commercial ventures directly to the gardens, which could radically alter the nature of the project. At the same time, allowing those who own properties below the High Line to relocate creates the possibility of freeing portions of the High Line from the surrounding density. 
 In their competition entry, the Field Operations architects' only link to outside development is depicted as a drawbridge. They are right to be ambivalent. As the High Line project continues to develop, the issue of access will have to be handled with particular care. If not, the High Line could one day become nothing more than Manhattan's belated answer to the historic theme park -- a grotesque urban mall on stilts.
 But this is not the time for skepticism. So far, both Friends of the High Line and the City Planning Department have proved remarkably adept at negotiatingpolitical hurdles. They have refused to pander to commercial interests. Nor have they ignored them. In selecting the design, they continue to show a genuine sensitivity to the High Line's value to the public realm. After the flawed, often cynical planning efforts that have marked development at ground zero, the thoughtful development of the High Line should be welcomed by New Yorkers who believe decent planning and imaginative architecture have a role in the city's future.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Renderings of the proposed design for the High Line show the view at 23rd Street and 10th Avenue, above, and looking south from 22nd Street and 10th Avenue, top. (Photo by Field Operations and Diller, Scofidio & Renfro)(pg. E1)
 In the preliminary design for the High Line district, the entry point at Gansevoort Street would feature a stairway leading up to a gallery space and a rooftop market and glass-enclosed bar. (Photo by Field Operations and Diller, Scofidio & Renfro)(pg. E7)Map of Manhattan highlights The High Line. (pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (69%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; High Line (NYC); Reviews

COMPANY: DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO (93%); RED HAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Field Operations (Co); Diller Scofidio & Renfro

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



285 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: While the Politicians Fiddle, America Goes Broke

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL. 
Christopher Caldwell is a senior editor at The Weekly Standard and a columnist for The Financial Times.

 BODY:

RUNNING ON EMPTY
How the Democratic and Republican Parties Are Bankrupting Our Future and What Americans Can Do About It
By Peter G. Peterson
242 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $24.
 When George W. Bush was governor of Texas, Peter G. Peterson tried to convince him that the rickety finances of Social Security and Medicare posed a pressing philosophical and moral question. Mr. Peterson has been chairman of several corporations and of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and was secretary of commerce under President Richard M. Nixon. As president of the Concord Coalition he has warned that politicians are endangering the economy by recklessly promising government benefits that they have no will -- and no way -- to finance. The question he raised with Governor Bush was ''whether a modern, media-driven democracy that only focuses on immediate crises could respond effectively to a very different kind of threat -- a silent, slow-motion, long-term crisis like entitlements.''
 Three years into the Bush administration, Mr. Peterson has his answer. It is no. Benefit spending now takes up an eighth of gross domestic product and is rising steeply. The deficit has spiked alarmingly since 2000, and under the most favorable demographic circumstances imaginable: for the past two decades the huge baby-boom generation has been in its prime work years, paying benefits for a relatively small number of nonworking seniors and children. Things are about to change dramatically for the worse. Soon, senescent boomers will be collecting the checks, and there will be only two-and-a-quarter workers per beneficiary.
 With precision and punch, Mr. Peterson's ''Running on Empty'' lays out why we are in a lousy position to dig ourselves out of this hole. The United States now has the lowest savings rate in the developed world. Much of the growth in entitlements has been paid for by defense cuts that were reaching their limits even before Sept. 11. The annual current-account deficit -- what America has to borrow to finance its excess of imports over exports -- is a dangerously high $540 billion, or 5.1 percent of gross domestic product. Net financial liabilities to foreigners have risen to $2.6 trillion today, from zero in 1980. With a third of public debt held abroad, the consoling thought that ''we owe it to ourselves'' is no longer operative.
 How we reached this pass can be stated simply: Republicans undertax, while Democrats overspend. For decades, Mr. Peterson writes, Democrats ''labored patiently to purge America of its traditional aversion to deficits,'' bribing voters with jobs and social-service programs that the country could not afford. Starting with the Emergency Recovery Tax Act of 1981, though, Republicans have learned that tax cuts and write-offs can be used as bribes in exactly the same way. Dependent on deficit spending, both parties have blown through every institutional constraint erected against reckless tax cuts and benefit expansions, from the Gramm-Rudman deficit ceilings of the 1980's to the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990. And they have blown the Social Security-tax surpluses meant to offset predictable future shortfalls. 
 While Mr. Peterson blames both parties for conniving against fiscal common sense, he puts the present administration in a class of its own. George W. Bush has discarded traditional Republican qualms against big government, replacing the old Democratic model of tax-and-spend with his own model of borrow-and-spend. Thanks to three unaffordable tax cuts and an unfinanced Medicare drug benefit that will eventually cost $2 trillion a decade, Mr. Peterson writes, ''this administration and the Republican Congress have presided over the biggest, most reckless deterioration of America's finances in history.''
 Unfortunately, fixing the federal budget will require more than just cleaning up after the Bush administration, Mr. Peterson warns. Revenue lost from the Bush tax cuts will indeed have to be recaptured, but the fiscal threat from entitlement programs functioning normally is 10 times as large. Mr. Peterson recommends a program to reform them. Switching from wage-indexing to price-indexing, as Britain has done, and establishing mandatory savings programs could put Social Security on a sound footing by midcentury, he writes.
 Medicare and Medicaid, which will cost more than Social Security by the end of this decade, are trickier. Mr. Peterson would start by introducing ''managed competition,'' capping the deductibility of employer health plans and reining in malpractice lawyers. He would reform the budget process by reinstating the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990, which required cuts to balance new spending.
 Mr. Peterson has laid out his level-headed argument at book length several times now. Why has it continued to be ignored? Maybe Americans have tacitly given up on the idea that large, New Deal-style entitlement programs can work over the long term -- whether because such programs inevitably get corrupted by politics and bureaucracy, or because even a well-managed welfare state is a competitive albatross in an age of globalization. Mr. Peterson himself notes that nine-tenths of baby boomers think ''government has made financial promises to [their] generation that it will not be able to keep.'' The guarantee of a secure retirement is already being rescinded in the minds of the citizenry, if not yet in the statute books.
 But Mr. Peterson also entertains a darker possibility: that ''our national leaders are providing the American people with precisely what they want.'' Debt, he notes, is particularly alluring in periods of partisan intransigence. If the two sides cannot compromise on priorities, each can take what it wants while dumping the bill on future generations. Americans used to understand this temptation and flee it. Thomas Jefferson warned: ''To preserve our independence, we must not let our rulers load us with perpetual debt. We must make our election between economy and liberty, or profusion and servitude.''
 So it may be that some terrible change has come over the national psychology that admits to only two diagnoses. Either the complexity of government has outrun the capacity of a democratic public to understand it, or that public, understanding well the options Jefferson put before it, has chosen servitude.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter G. Peterson (Photo by Rick Falco/Blackstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MEDICARE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (66%); TAX LAW (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Christopher Caldwell; Peter G Peterson

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



286 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: In Venezuela Voting, Global Oil Industry Favors Stability

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO; Brian Ellsworth, in Caracas, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
With his red beret and fervent left-wing oratory, President Hugo Chavez is not beloved by corporate America. 
 Wall Street, however, is keen on stability in this oil-rich country, where companies like Exxon Mobil and ChevronTexaco operate. And if Mr. Chavez is removed on Sunday in a recall referendum, analysts say the Venezuelan oil industry could be thrown into tumult, further whipsawing world oil prices, which rose to a 21-year high this week. 
 ''Winning the referendum would be more constructive to stability in the oil markets in the short term because the markets know what they have,'' said Lawrence Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a New York-based research group. ''There would be a continuity in policy. It's better than uncertainty.'' 
 World supplies are already tight, as uncertainties over Iraq and Yukos, the Russian oil giant, continue to mount. Tropical storms have also led at least five American companies to halt work on offshore rigs temporarily, bolstering prices.
 Now, Venezuela is facing possible turmoil with a referendum that may lead to the removal of Mr. Chavez. Venezuela, the world's fifth-largest exporter, supplies about 13 percent of the petroleum products the United States imports.
 The importance of Venezuela's role as a short-haul supplier to the United States was demonstrated when a general strike against the Chavez government nearly brought production to a halt in 2002, driving prices sharply higher in the United States. 
 Recent polls suggest Mr. Chavez will squeak out a victory over a coalition of political parties, unions and businessmen that had, until last year, employed strikes and a coup to remove the government. 
 But some political analysts say the polls are still too close to call, and that if Mr. Chavez loses, it could raise the price of oil even more. A successful recall would lead to a new election in 30 days, with opposition groups and the government scrambling to campaign.
 ''Wall Street may not like Chavez very much,'' said Roger Tissot, director of markets and countries group at the Washington-based energy consulting concern, PFC Energy. ''But the financial community prefers a president it knows than a month of potential political turmoil in which anything could happen.''
 The Bush administration, no friend of the Chavez government, has remained largely silent about the recall, except to issue pronouncements calling for the election to be fair and transparent. With the American presidential election approaching, the Bush administration is unlikely to take a harder line against Mr. Chavez at the risk of setting off a further rise in oil prices.
 Still, while oil companies face higher royalty rates under a 2001 hydrocarbons law, officials from several multinationals said in recent interviews that they felt they could operate and make money in Venezuela.
 ''Chavez has become more and more open about his animosity toward the United States,'' said Antonio Szabo, a former executive at the state oil company here, Petroleos de Venezuela, and now chief executive of Stone Bond Technologies, a Houston software and energy consulting firm. ''But he has shown no animosity toward the companies.''
 If Mr. Chavez loses, there is fear that the state oil giant, better known as Pdvsa, would become the scene of purges by opposition groups. Mr. Chavez fired 18,000 employees during antigovernment strikes that began in December 2002. Violence is also a possibility, analysts say, particularly if Mr. Chavez loses by a small margin, inciting his more fanatical supporters to hit the streets.
 Credit Suisse First Boston, in a report on Venezuela's economic prospects, says that a witch hunt within Pdvsa, hurting oil production, is a ''potential medium-term risk if Chavez loses office.'' 
 ''We think former Pdvsa workers would push hard to be given back their former jobs, raising questions about the future of current staff,'' Credit Suisse First Boston said.
 A loss by Mr. Chavez, of course, would in the long term probably be welcomed by foreign oil companies, since they would prefer the lower royalty rates and higher production goals that a new government would most likely bring.
 Many analysts, though, believe that outcome is not very likely -- assuring stability at least through the days ahead.
 Jay Saunders, an energy analyst at Deutsche Bank in New York, said, ''Right now there's not much of an expectation that the recall will increase political risk in Venezuela because Wall Street is convinced Chavez will win.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela faces a recall referendum on Sunday. There are fears that his removal would bring chaos to the oil fields. (Photo by Miraflores Palace/Reuters)
 (Photo by David Rochkind/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ROYALTIES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); STRIKES (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) Politics and Government; Recall (Elections); Elections; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Public Opinion; Referendums 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); CHEVRON CORP (58%); OAO NK YUKOS (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); CVX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush; Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



287 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Group Pushes Education As 2004 Issue

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
A coalition of organizations, led by the na *ws (2tion's largest teachers union, introduced a campaign on Wednesday to mobilize opposition to the No Child Left Behind law, to demand more money for public schools and to raise the profile of education as an election issue.
 Members of the coalition include the National Education Association, the teachers union, which has endorsed Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, for president, and MoveOn.org, the 2.3 million-member Internet-based political movement that also backs Mr. Kerry. But it also includes groups like Acorn, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, and the Forum on Education and Democracy, which are more oriented toward policy. 
 The campaign, called the National Mobilization for Great Public Schools, came under attack from Congressional Republicans, but the coalition insisted that its effort was nonpartisan and that it would not endorse any candidate or party.
 Robert Borosage, co-director of the Campaign for America's Future, cited opinion polls showing that Americans favor expanding pre-schools, smaller class sizes, better training and pay for teachers and strong after-school programs. 
 ''Americans understand the importance of education,'' Mr. Borosage said. ''What we're trying to do is make sure that widespread feeling gets mobilized and addressed in the larger policy debate.''
 The groups plan to have thousands of supporters hold house parties on Sept. 22, at which they will show a video outlining their priorities for education. Mr. Borosage said meetings were also planned in schools, churches, libraries and workplaces. 
 Polls generally show education trailing as an issue among voters, behind the economy, the war in Iraq, security and health care. ''One thing is sure,'' said Reg Weaver, president of the National Education Association, which has 2.7 million members. ''If we don't address it, it won't receive any more attention than it does at the present time.''
 Stephen Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, defended the president's record on education and accused the groups of partisan motivation. ''A coalition that involves the N.E.A. and MoveOn.org is by definition not nonpartisan,'' Mr. Schmidt said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) Education and Schools; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Endorsements; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (83%); ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS FOR REFORM NOW (83%) National Education Assn; Moveon.org; Acorn (Orgn); Forum on Education and Democracy; Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Diana Jean Schemo; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



288 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE NOMINEE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Faults Bush Over Opposition to Drugs From Canada

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: HENDERSON, Nev., Aug. 11 

 BODY:
Hitting hard on an issue of deep concern to older voters, Senator John Kerry on Wednesday promised an overhaul of the Medicare prescription drug law, saying President Bush had personally ''stood in the way'' of importing drugs from Canada, which advocates say would significantly reduce costs.
 ''George Bush stood right there and said, 'Nope, we're not going to help people to have lower cost drugs in America, we're going to help the big drug companies get a great big windfall,''' Mr. Kerry said.
 He said of the president's opposition to legislation to reimport American-made drugs from Canada, passed by the Senate: ''I thought these were the people who believed in the marketplace, in fair competition. This isn't fair competition, it's a monopoly, and it's been put in place by George Bush and his friends, and it's costing you a whole bunch of extra money, and it's wrong, it's fundamentally wrong.'' 
 Mr. Kerry's focus on the issue came as his campaign began what it called an intense effort to court the elderly, a critical constituency in the election, the day after an independent poll showed that signing the Medicare bill in December had not given the president a lift among older voters. The Kerry campaign handed out plastic pillboxes emblazoned with Mr. Kerry's logo to a white-haired crowd here, and released a chart showing how much more some popular drugs cost in the United States than in Canada.
 With national security and the economy, health care forms the triumvirate of top issues in this year's election, and it is probably the one that most voters feel personally, as they struggle with spiraling costs. Prescription drugs, in turn, are the most tangible piece of the problem, and the new Medicare benefit, which followed a fierce partisan fight in Washington, has framed the debate for the campaign. 
 Republicans responded Wednesday with a strong condemnation not only of Mr. Kerry's plans for importation and bulk buying of drugs, which they denounced as costly and unrealistic, but also of what they described as blatant and base politicking. Representative Bill Thomas of California, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, told reporters that Mr. Kerry lied and ''made up stories'' about health care quagmires and ''was AWOL through the entire process'' of negotiating the drug plan.
 Mr. Kerry skipped the vote on final passage of the bill, but he and his running mate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, both left the campaign trail during the Democratic primaries to speak out against the bill on the Senate floor as part of a failed filibuster.
 The new benefit would cover 75 percent of drug costs up to $2,250 starting in 2006; until then, 41 million people are eligible for a drug discount card, but just one in 10 have signed up so far.
 ''Instead of joining hands and offering seniors as good a program we could do at the time, they chose the route of scaring seniors, driving fear into people,'' Mr. Thomas said on a Bush campaign conference call. ''He wants to get elected, and if he has to scare seniors along the way and deny them a benefit that is in the law, that's O.K.''
 As for the new poll by the Harvard School of Public Health and the Kaiser Family Foundation, which showed that nearly half of Medicare beneficiaries dislike the new law, and that large majorities back reimportation and bulk-buying, Mr. Thomas said it just proved the potency of the Democrats' tactics. ''If you promise people the moon and that it costs nothing to get there,'' he said, ''I don't know how important a poll is that says people want to go to the moon.''
 Tad Devine, a top Kerry strategist, pointed to the new poll as evidence ''that the impact of the prescription drug bill on this election has been tremendously negative to the Republicans,'' and said the campaign was banking on a backlash to draw voters to the Democratic ticket here and in other retiree-rich states like Arizona, Florida and New Mexico. 
 But the White House has not shied away from the issue, with Mr. Bush declaring, ''We got the job done,'' in appearances on Tuesday in Florida.
 Here at the Valley View Recreation Center, in a Las Vegas suburb of 175,000 people that is the nation's fastest-growing large city, Mr. Kerry won wild applause as he read the results of his campaign's research: Prevacid, a popular drug for heartburn associated with acid reflux diseases, costs $44.27 for 30 tablets in Canada and an average of $147.53 in pharmacies surveyed in 21 states. Celebrex, a pain reliever commonly prescribed for arthritis, was $27.67 in Canada, $95.28 in the states. 
 ''Dr. Kerry is here to cure you all,'' the senator said.
 Dale Rood, a 53, a letter carrier two years from retirement who attended the event with his wife, Karen, said, ''I don't think, the way things have gone the last four years, a lot of seniors are going to stay with Bush.'' 
 Richard Miller, 66, a retired history teacher, said Mr. Kerry ''hit a home run here today,'' adding, ''There isn't anything that he said here today that we can't relate to.''
 Mr. Kerry's wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, stepped in after a teary woman complained about the lack of mental-health coverage, saying with her trademark bluntness that women had suffered because ''most of the research in medicine has been done on men, younger men.''
 Speaking of a stress study, Mrs. Heinz Kerry said, ''males' response is testosterone-related, fight or flight,'' while estrogen ''makes women want to tend and mend.''
 ''It's a different story, they go and watch a football game, the lady wants to talk,'' she said. 
 As his 15-bus caravan headed toward Los Angeles to culminate a two-week coast-to-coast trek, Mr. Kerry stopped on Wednesday afternoon in Baker, Calif., to gaze up at the world's largest thermometer, whose 134-foot height reflects the highest temperature ever reached in Death Valley, 134 degrees Fahrenheit. While he was there, the electronic readout ticked up from 114 to 115 degrees.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''It's wrong, it's fundamentally wrong,'' John Kerry said yesterday of the Bush administration's drug policy, speaking in Henderson, Nev.
 After a talk in 115-degree heat at the Mojave National Preserve in Baker, Calif., John Kerry athletically returned to his bus yesterday. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELDER LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICS (89%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); MEDICARE (58%) Medicine and Health; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; International Trade and World Market; Aged; Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Medicare

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (96%) Canada; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



289 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Indexes Bounce Off Early Lows, But Tech Stocks Don't Rebound

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
A battle played out in the stock market yesterday between the optimism of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and the caution of John T. Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems, a maker of Internet networking equipment. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Greenspan and his policy-making colleagues helped push stocks sharply higher after they said that the economy appeared ready to rebound from the slower growth of the last few months. Mr. Chambers offered a more modest outlook when his company posted quarterly results after the market closed Tuesday, sending stocks sharply lower in early trading yesterday. 
 But there was no clear victor. While staggered, the three main market gauges, which fell enough early on to wipe out most or all of the gains from Tuesday, rebounded later in the day. 
 At the close, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 0.3 percent, after falling as much as 1.2 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average, which was off 1 percent around 10 a.m., finished down 0.1 percent. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes many technology stocks like Cisco, dropped 1.5 percent but had been down as much as 2.7 percent in early trading.
 Jack Caffrey, equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank, said the market's rebound yesterday reflected, in part, the fact that investors had already factored in much of the bad news concerning the economy and the threat of terrorism. Intraday market moves, he added, have had a tendency ''to feed on themselves'' recently.
 As for the future, he said that J.P. Morgan was not predicting sharp moves in the market the rest of the year. ''We have been telling investors to expect a range-bound market,'' with the S.&P. 500 caught between 1,050 and 1,150, he said.
 The stock market is near the bottom of that range right now, with the S.&P. down 3.3 percent for the year. If stocks rebound to the top of this range, the S.&P. 500 would be up 4.1 percent for the year but still 7 points below its high for 2004.
 Although the broad market recovered, it was an even bigger down day for Cisco and other technology stocks than the fall in the Nasdaq would imply. Cisco plunged 10.6 percent, closing at $18.29, down $2.17; the Nasdaq computer index fell 3 percent; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index dropped 5.2 percent.
 ''The tech business is under a microscope, and anything that comes up shorter than the market is looking for gets punished,'' said David Hegarty, head of United States equity trading at Commerzbank Securities.
 While Mr. Chambers's comments roiled stocks, they had less effect in other markets. The dollar inched a little higher against the euro and bond prices rose modestly. 
 Mr. Chambers's remarks came during a conference call on Cisco's earnings for the three months ended in June. By then, the reassurance from Fed policy makers, who raised their benchmark short-term interest rate a quarter-point, to 1.5 percent, had been enough to help push the three main market gauges up 1.3 percent or more.
 But Mr. Chambers's comments seemed to have added weight because they were based on his own conversations with many chief executives across the country.
 ''Most of the C.E.O.'s I talk with view the economy as growing at a modest level and are a little more cautious in their outlook than they were a quarter ago,'' he said in the conference call. 
 Of course, Mr. Greenspan is the heavyweight in this contest. So the fact that stocks fell early also showed how negative the environment for equities is right now and how any bad news can easily undermine positive developments.
 With only 32,000 nonfarm payroll jobs created in July, well below expectations, and crude oil still above $44 a barrel, it is easy to forget the signs of an economic rebound, seen in the rise in July of indexes of the manufacturing and service sectors. Retail sales for July, which will be reported today, are expected to rise 1.2 percent, rebounding from June's 1.1 percent decline.
 For the day, the S.&P. 500-stock index fell 3.25 points, to 1,075.79, while the Dow dropped just 6.35 points, to 9,938.32. The Nasdaq declined 26.28 points, to 1,782.42.
 Among the stocks that had big swings on the day was Goodyear Tire. It jumped 5.4 percent on Tuesday but was down as much as 2.7 percent yesterday before ending up 7 cents, or 0.6 percent, at $10.97.
 A 2.7 percent plunge in the price of oil in the morning might have helped touch off the stock market rebound, Mr. Hegarty said. But oil for September delivery then rebounded like stocks, finishing the day up 28 cents, or 0.6 percent, at $44.80 a barrel.
 In the Treasury market, the yield on the 10-year note slipped to 4.27 percent from 4.29 percent Tuesday, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 5/32, to 10325/32. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of a five-year Treasury note: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.909
High Yield: 3.520
Low Yield: 3.450
Median Yield: 3.490
Total applied for: $41,939,797
Accepted: $17,290,497
Noncompetitive: $184,311
Interest set at: 3 1/2
The five-year notes mature Aug. 15, 2009. xx, xxxx.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); EURO (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (50%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (87%); COMMERZBANK AG (55%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (87%); CZB (LSE) (55%); CBK (FRA) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (87%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (87%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (88%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



290 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Bush Remark Touches Off New Debate on Income Tax

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
A debate is flaring anew over the idea, most recently addressed by President Bush at a campaign stop in Florida on Tuesday, that the United States ought to consider replacing income taxes with some sort of national sales tax.
 ''It's kind of an interesting idea that we ought to explore seriously,'' Mr. Bush said in response to a question during an ''Ask President Bush'' session in Niceville, Fla. 
 Though the president's remarks were informal, he made them at a time when some of his advisers, though by no means all, are urging that his speech at the Republican National Convention include a proposal for a vast overhaul of the federal tax system.
 Mr. Bush's comments were followed Wednesday by a conference call with reporters, arranged by the Bush-Cheney campaign, in which the chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, said that he favored looking at ''well-thought-out alternate tax structures'' and that the committee planned to do so.
 ''We have one of the more regressive tax structures in the world today that basically is a 19th-century concept,'' Mr. Thomas said, adding, ''We should get that revenue from people in the least destructive way possible.''
 Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, responded to the president's remarks by immediately accusing him of contemplating a step that would add to tax burdens on the middle class. 
 ''The last thing we need is a national sales tax that would impose a whole new tax on this country,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''Were the Bush proposal to be adopted, many Americans would be paying more than 20 percent in national sales taxes on top of state and local sales taxes.''
 Nor was Mr. Kerry the only opponent. At least one Bush adviser said there was a schism over the idea within the president's camp.
 A concept that has surfaced from time to time, a national sales tax, or value-added tax similar to those in most European countries, would be a radical departure in the tax code. Its opponents argue that it would punish the poor and the middle class, who typically spend a larger share of their income than the wealthy on consumption. Proponents argue that it would be simpler and fairer than the traditional income tax, because it would not provide the opportunities for loopholes and sophisticated tax-reduction schemes that tend to favor wealthy taxpayers.
 At his appearance on Tuesday, Mr. Bush stopped well short of proposing anything specific. But White House officials were careful not to rule out the idea, noting that he had long been in favor of fundamental tax changes.
 ''The president has always believed in lower taxes and a simpler, fairer tax code,'' the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, said Wednesday. But Mr. McClellan added, ''There's nothing more to announce at this time.''
 At another point on Wednesday, when a second White House spokesman, Trent Duffy, was asked whether Mr. Bush was contemplating a dramatic new tax proposal at the convention, he replied, ''Stay tuned.''
 R. Glenn Hubbard, a former chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers and now an adviser to the Bush-Cheney campaign, has long been a vocal supporter of fundamental change that would tax consumption rather than income from savings and investment.
 ''I don't think he meant a national sales tax per se,'' Mr. Hubbard said Wednesday. ''I think what he means is a tax reform that might disadvantage savings and investment less.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); VALUE ADDED TAX (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%) Taxation; Sales Tax; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (90%) Florida; Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



291 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Painting the Economy Into a Corner

 BODY:
President Bush reacted decisively to this month's shockingly bad employment report -- by quickly changing the topic to terror. The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, also focused elsewhere, namely on rising oil prices. Mr. Greenspan used inflationary energy costs as the rationale for raising interest rates a quarter point, despite the drastic slump in hiring and a recent slowdown in productivity growth. 
 What neither man seems ready to acknowledge outright is that policy makers have run out of tools for stewarding an economy that -- nearly three years into a recovery -- has yet to flourish and may even be downshifting to neutral. The president's fiscal policies, mainly high-end tax cuts, have resulted in a record federal budget deficit without spurring hiring or income growth. If Mr. Bush continues on the tax-cut path, continuing high deficits will further threaten job creation and living standards. 
 Mr. Greenspan passed up opportunities to discourage Mr. Bush's disastrous tax-cut strategy back when it might have done some good. Instead, the Fed pursued its own stimulative policy, pushing interest rates to the lowest level in a generation. One result has been a debt load that is a big factor in the overall decline in households' net worth, despite the rise in housing values. That alone argues for tightening the money spigot. Another reason for raising rates is that the continuation of a cheap-money policy would probably precipitate inflation, as a glut of dollars would eventually feed rising prices. 
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Greenspan have now exhausted almost all of their stimulus options. The economy is on its own, and it is not clear whether it is on track for a stronger recovery in the second half of the year. 
 No wonder, then, that Mr. Bush won't acknowledge the bad news on jobs. Doing so would imply a need to re-examine the policies that have led to this point, something he is not willing to do. Given the facts, his intransigence is appalling: according to a new research report by Economy.com, an independent provider of economic data and analysis, the $700 billion swing from surplus to deficit under President Bush accounted for nearly two percentage points of economic growth a year. But it has generated economic gains of just over one percentage point.
 The main reason for the crippling discrepancy is that the tax cuts were mostly handed out where they did the least good -- that is, lavished on the people least likely to spend the largess. The reduction in the tax rates, the largest of Mr. Bush's tax boons, provided only 59 cents of economic stimulus for every dollar of lost tax revenue. The tax cut for dividends and capital gains produced 9 cents of stimulus for every forgone dollar. (Did someone say, ''Deficits as far as the eye can see''?) In contrast, the economic bang for a dollar of aid to state governments is $1.24. Yet such assistance accounted for only 3 percent of the total cost of Mr. Bush's fiscal policies. 
 The president was right to use a fiscal stimulus to counter a recession -- it's just that his favorite tactics were wrong, and they failed to create an environment that fosters growth in jobs and income. Now, along with outside factors like oil prices, Mr. Bush's priorities are actually contributing to the weak picture for jobs. And in a perverse feedback loop, a continuation of these policies will further swell the deficit, impeding job growth even more. 
 While the economy is still expanding and jobs are being created, the pace pales in comparison with the pace of other recoveries at this same stage. For real prosperity to take hold, a much broader swath of the labor force must be able to find jobs and earn decent wages. That isn't likely to happen under Mr. Bush's policies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%) United States Economy; Editorials; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



292 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Iraq and Jobs Are Focus In Bush's Southwest Swing

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
President Bush swept through the Southwest on Wednesday, criticizing his Democratic rival's talk of reducing troop levels in Iraq on a swing through a region that is becoming a well-traveled campaign battleground.
 In New Mexico, a state he lost by a whisker in 2000, Mr. Bush said that Senator John Kerry's comment on Monday -- ''I believe that within a year from now, we could significantly reduce American forces in Iraq'' -- was a mistake because such a move could be interpreted as showing a lack of resolve.
 ''We all want the mission to be completed as quickly as possible,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But we all want the mission to be completed. The mission is not going to be completed as quickly as possible if the enemy thinks we will be removing a substantial number of troops in six months.'' 
 Mr. Bush continued to criticize Mr. Kerry's stance on national security issues as he moved on to a raucous evening rally before an estimated 15,000 at an arena here, hitting what he described as Mr. Kerry's shifting positions on the war.
 Before arriving in Arizona, Mr. Bush spoke at a forum on small-business issues in an aircraft manufacturing hangar outside Albuquerque, where he emphasized the theme that the administration's economic policies have aided entrepreneurs.
 Acknowledging that he lost New Mexico by fewer than 400 votes, Mr. Bush urged supporters to go to the polls in November, saying that too many stayed home in 2000. 
 Mr. Kerry campaigned in the state just a few days ago and his advisers say that Mr. Bush's focus on the Southwest is evidence of how competitive Mr. Kerry is in the region. 
 In a telephone briefing with reporters, Tad Devine, a senior strategist for Mr. Kerry, said the campaign was optimistic about its chances in New Mexico, Arizona and Nevada -- states Mr. Bush is now visiting -- as well as in Colorado. Mr. Devine said he believed that the Bush campaign probably did not anticipate having to fight so hard for those electoral votes, adding, ''We think we are in strong shape as we go into the fall.'' 
 Bush advisers conceded that New Mexico and other Western states on the president's itinerary were competitive. Scott Stanzel, a campaign spokesman, noted that the president's 366-vote loss in 2000 amounted to less than one-third of a vote per precinct. ''That's why we put in a lot of work and built a strong grass-roots organization and why the president is here today,'' Mr. Stanzel said. 
 The president highlighted the employment being provided by the developers of the Eclipse 500 jet as well as the success of other local small-business owners. He also made a pitch for his efforts to limit lawsuits, saying malpractice claims had cut into the availability of health care.
 ''I don't think you can be pro-patient, pro-doctor and pro-trial lawyer at the same time,'' Mr. Bush said, foreshadowing a gibe at Senator John Edwards, the former trial lawyer who is Mr. Kerry's running mate. ''My opponent has made his choice, and he put him on the ticket.''
 A Kerry spokesman, Phil Singer, said Mr. Bush's comments on Iraq were an effort ''to avoid a discussion about his failed policy. 
 ''One thing we know for sure is that the troops are going to be in Iraq for a lot longer under George Bush than they will be with John Kerry as president,'' Mr. Singer said. ''Eighteen months into this war, George Bush has yet to produce a plan to win the peace, the military is overextended, and America is less respected in the world.''
 The back-and-forth came on a day when the Bush campaign unveiled an advertisement focusing on national security.
 ''My most solemn duty is to lead our nation to protect ourselves,'' Mr. Bush says in the spot. ''I can't imagine the great agony of a mom or a dad having to make the decision about which child to pick up first on September the 11th. We cannot hesitate. We cannot yield. We must do everything in our power to bring an enemy to justice before they hurt us again.''
 The 30-second advertisement will run in 19 states.
 As Mr. Bush continued the five-day, eight-state campaign tour that started Tuesday, the Kerry campaign accused him of shadowing Mr. Kerry around the country, noting that Mr. Kerry had just been in New Mexico, Arizona and Nevada and was headed to California and Oregon -- two states Mr. Bush will also visit this week.
 ''George W. Bush is playing follow the leader yet again,'' Mr. Kerry's campaign said in a statement.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush borrowed a cowboy hat as he greeted the crowd last night at a rally at Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Phoenix. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); AIRCRAFT MFG (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TERRORISM (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Carl Hulse; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; New Mexico; Arizona; Nevada

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



293 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Forces Delay Najaf Assault Without Explanation
American forces abruptly held back in Najaf after spending days preparing for a major attack against insurgents loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr. Officers declined to discuss what caused them to change their plans and said they were still preparing for an attack. A1

The embattled former exile Ahmad Chalabi secretly re-entered Iraq, vowing to face criminal charges against him in court. A12

An internal Pentagon audit has found that the Halliburton Company failed to provide adequate accounting for some of the $4.2 billion it received for providing logistical support to troops in Iraq and Kuwait. A12

Reviewing Afghan Progress
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld made an unannounced trip to a provincial reconstruction headquarters in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, to view preparations for October's presidential election and to review efforts to counter insurgents and the narcotics trade. A5

Bombing on Jerusalem Border
A Palestinian bomber detonated explosives 200 yards from a busy checkpoint at the northern edge of Jerusalem, killing two Palestinian passersby and wounding about 20 people, including 6 Israeli border police officers. The bomb was in a bag left by the side of the road, and was detonated by remote control. A3

New Evidence in Terror Trial
Imprisoned leaders of Al Qaeda told American authorities that Mounir el-Motassadeq was not involved in the plot to attack the United States in September 2001, according to evidence introduced in his trial in Germany. A16

Britain Issues Cloning License
British regulators issued the country's first license to use cloning techniques to create human stem cells. Researchers at the Newcastle Center for Life, in northern England, hope to develop tissues that will treat diabetes, Alzheimer's, and other diseases. A4

NATIONAL A16-23

Democrats May Not Block Bush's C.I.A. Nominee
A dozen Senate Democrats suggested that they would not oppose President Bush's nomination of Representative Porter J. Goss as director of central intelligence, but they vowed to use his confirmation hearings to amplify their concerns over fatal intelligence failures under the administration. A1

Caution on Intelligence Shifts
Senior Pentagon officials joined with prominent House Republicans in cautioning against a hasty move toward overhauling the nation's intelligence agencies in response to the Sept. 11 commission, which called for the appointment of a director to oversee the work of spy agencies in the Defense Department. A16

Pakistani Denies Terror Link
The brother of Kamran Shaikh, the Pakistani who was arrested in North Carolina after videotaping buildings and transit systems, denied that Mr. Shaikh had any connections to terrorism. A16

Bush Courts New Mexico
President Bush ventured to New Mexico seeking to reverse his 400-vote loss four years ago. The President acknowledged his loss and urged supporters gathered in an aircraft manufacturing hangar to make sure they got Bush backers to the polls in November because too many stayed home the last time. A22

Kerry Challenges Medicare Law
Senator John Kerry promised an overhaul of the Medicare prescription drug law, saying President Bush had personally ''stood in the way'' of importing drugs from Canada, which advocates say would significantly reduce costs. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Study Explains T. Rex Weight
Paleontologists now think they know how the Tyrannosaurus rex grew to such a menacing bulk -- 11,000 pounds and 42 feet long. In a teenage growth spurt, a T. rex normally put on an average of 4.6 pounds a day over four years. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Giuliani a Major Player In the Bush Campaign
Rudolph W. Giuliani has become a big player in the Bush re-election effort, attacking Senator John Kerry, campaigning around the country and leveraging the events of Sept. 11 in ways that President Bush has not dared. A1

Albany Passes Budget Bill
The New York State Legislature approved a long-delayed budget bill shortly before 11 p.m. The Senate and the Assembly agreed to a $101.3 billion spending plan that added $1.2 billion overall to a proposal by Governor Pataki. B1

2 Die in Lightning Storm
Two people were electrocuted by a downed power line and at least five others injured by lightning strikes as a storm swept the region. B1

4 Arrested in Airport Thefts
Four baggage screeners at Kennedy and La Guardia Airports were arrested on charges that they stole items from luggage set up by investigators conducting a sting operation. B2

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

Olympic Soccer Play Begins
The United States women's team beat Greece, 3-0, on the opening day of competition in the 2004 Olympics. D1

CIRCUITS G1-8

OBITUARIES C14

ARTS E1-10

Film on Crusades Planned
20th Century Fox is planning a release next year for a big-budget epic depicting the fight between Christians and Muslims over Jerusalem in the 12th century Crusade. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Toys 'R' Us May Exit Toys
The nation's largest toy retailer announced that it may split its toy business and its faster-growing baby supplies division, Babies ''R'' Us, into separate companies and that it is considering selling its toy business. A1

Concern on Guard Contracts
Two security firms benefited from multimillion-dollar Pentagon contracts awarded to Alaskan corporations representing tribal groups. C1

Oil Prices Increase
World energy markets were gripped with concerns about strong demand and possible disruptions of the supply of crude oil, even after Saudi Arabia announced that it had the capacity to pump 1.3 million more barrels a day immediately if needed. C1

UAL Union Requests Trustee
The machinists union at United Airlines asked a bankruptcy judge to appoint a trustee to run the airline, angered by its decision to stop contributing to employee pension plans. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Painting the economy into a corner; the protesters' about-face; an Olympic chemical race.

Columns: Dahlia Lithwick.

Bridge E4
Crossword E7
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E10
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); CLONING (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ACCOUNTING (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); ARRESTS (71%); ESPIONAGE (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (65%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (63%); DIABETES (63%); AIRCRAFT MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (71%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (71%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (71%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (71%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (71%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (71%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (56%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ENGLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



294 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Amid Turmoil, an Economic Pickup

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
With its protests and political tumult of the last few years, Venezuela has been anything but hospitable to business.
 But at sprawling car plants in the city of Valencia, southwest of Caracas, production this year is up sharply. Eli Lilly & Company, maker of impotence drugs, Prozac and insulin, is expecting sales to shoot up. The DirectTV Group says the number of subscribers should increase 18 percent this year, to 320,000.
 And Juan Vicente Alvarez, whose family has had a construction company for 34 years, is planning a string of apartment complexes that are its largest projects since 1999. 
 It is all part of an economic rebound that, economists say, could lead to growth rates of 10 to 12 percent this year, nearly double the government's initial forecasts. The rise in Venezuela's economy, Latin America's fourth largest, is helping to drive what the United Nations says will be a 4 percent expansion in Latin America this year, the biggest since 1997.
 For Venezuela's left-leaning government, which has been fending off threats to remain in power, the economy's rebound could not have come a moment too soon. 
 Facing a recall referendum on Sunday that could end President Hugo Chavez's turbulent five years in office, the economic boom -- driven by soaring oil prices that have left Venezuela awash in petro-dollars -- is spurring heavy government spending on social programs that are having the desired effect: solidifying support when the president needs it most.
 But while the government celebrates, Venezuela's economy is anything but healthy, after a two-year contraction that some economists call one of the biggest free falls in Latin America in years. In 2002, the economy fell 8.9 percent, and crumpled again in 2003, by 9.4 percent. 
 Crippled by antigovernment strikes in 2002 that went into 2003, production at Venezuela's large government-owned oil company at one point slowed to a trickle. Companies went out of business, and many people lost their jobs, floating into the country's mushrooming informal economy.
 With only one way to go -- up -- the economy has registered startling growth this year.
 ''It's a statistical bounce since it was going to come back,'' explained Rafael de la Fuente, chief Latin economist for BNP Paribas in New York. ''Still, you're not back at the level you were two years ago. All told, this is still an economy that hasn't recovered.''
 Driven by world oil prices that are approaching $45 a barrel, oil revenues have risen 120 percent in last 12 months, and nonoil revenue has nearly doubled, LatinSource, a network of economists based in New York, said in a recent report.
 The economic indicators, though, gloss over an economy unable to attract much foreign investment or create jobs for the 50 percent of Venezuelan laborers who toil in the informal sector, selling on the street or running unregulated businesses. Hamstrung by stringent exchange controls and an unpredictable political situation, many local businesses have been unable to grow.
 ''Clearly what you're seeing is a normalization of activity at quite a low level,'' said Michael Gavin, chief economist for UBS in Stamford, Conn. ''They recovered from the heart attack, but the cancer is there.''
 Indeed, economic indicators show that Venezuela attracted only $1.4 billion in foreign direct investment in 2003, down from $4.3 billion in 1998, according to Mr. Gavin's calculations.
 The central government is also running deficits as spending rises to $26.9 billion this year from $24.3 billion last year, according to estimates by Credit Suisse First Boston. The budget deficit is expected to be about 5.9 percent of gross domestic product this year, First Boston said, and rise to 6.7 percent next year. The gap was less than 2 percent of gross domestic product in 1999. 
 ''The current fiscal stance is unsustainable,'' said the bank in a report on Aug. 6, explaining that although high oil prices have permitted more spending, the government will be hit hard when prices drop. The report, written after a visit to Venezuela, said that First Boston researchers ''saw nothing during our visit to change our broadly negative long-term view of Venezuela.''
 The Chavez government dismisses such assessments, saying that its social spending generates jobs and that the country's fiscal condition is healthy. Venezuela is, indeed, well regarded for paying its debts on time, and its international reserves have shot up to nearly $24 billion, from $15 billion in 1998.
 ''This is a government that shows it can come back,'' said Ricardo Dorado, vice minister of labor, explaining that much of the country's free fall was brought about by opposition groups. ''There is now a recovery.''
 Signs of a comeback can be found in sectors like auto production, retail sales and, little by little, construction, which is taking its first baby steps after lean years when building practically reached a standstill.
 The Ford Motor Company in Valencia said that about 140 cars and trucks were being built each day -- about 50 percent more than last year -- by 1,600 workers, 450 more than last year.
 In all, the automobile industry in this land of big cars and cheap gas may build 120,000 cars and trucks this year, twice the number of 2003. It falls far short of the 217,000 vehicles made in 2001, but executives say they are pleased nevertheless.
 ''For Ford, this has been an excellent year,'' said Enmanuel Cassingena, president of Ford Andina, which also oversees production in Colombia and Ecuador. With its new compact cars, Ford has a 21.7 percent market share in Venezuela, 5.6 percent more than at this point last year, Mr. Cassingena said.
 ''The sector has rebounded faster than we had thought,'' he said.
 In Caracas, other sectors that have registered upticks include construction, up 19.5 percent in the first quarter; retailing, up 27.9 percent, and transport and storage, which grew 25.3 percent. Manufacturing over all, including car production, increased 50 percent in the first three months.
 Jorge Botti, who represents retailers and runs several businesses, said his 47-year-old family-run company, a hardware wholesaler called Padlock, has expanded into several business lines. He provides high-technology hardware to the telecommunications industry and is opening a big food wholesaler.
 ''It has flourished,'' Mr. Botti said of his business. ''We are being reborn.''
 But under the rosy surface, he explained, is an ailing economy. Some big competitors have gone out of business, a trend seen across the country and leading to a concentration of companies. And he notes that the encouraging economic data this year hide the fact that the growth rates are being compared with the period last year, when the economy was paralyzed and near collapse.
 ''What we have is a debacle -- we have more people and a smaller economy,'' he said. ''The government holds it all up as a success, but what you see is lost business and a lack of competitors.''
 Construction, considered a barometer of the economy, is also in a delicate position. Companies are building schools in the government's drive to bolster education. A metro system, is being built in Los Teques, outside Caracas, and in the capital the subway is being expanded. Some big projects, like a bridge over the Orinoco River and a major highway, are also moving forward.
 Mr. Alvarez, the builder whose company was started in 1970, is embarking on an upscale complex of 300 apartments, called Sun Views, in Caracas and a project of 700 more units in Valencia. But Mr. Alvarez, who also represents realtors, says that is a tepid start.
 In 2003, only 9,000 apartment units and houses were built, down from 92,000 in 1997, according to the leading builders' association in Caracas. In all, construction in 2003 accounted for a third of the economic activity it generated in 2001. The industry has 550,000 workers, down from 1.1 million during the 1970's construction boom.
 Now, with the economy reviving, Mr. Alvarez is somewhat optimistic that his and other companies will soon see better days. But he says there are hurdles of all kinds, from more cautious buyers to a lack of credit to political uncertainty.
 ''There are projects that are ready to get off the ground,'' he said. ''But, of course, the purchasing power of people is not where it should be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: After years of downturn, Venezuela's economy, including construction, has shown signs of a resurgence. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Higher oil prices have helped lift Venezuela, but the economy has had problems attracting foreign investors and creating jobs for laborers. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); DISMISSALS (61%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Referendums; Elections; Recall (Elections); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Foreign Investments; Labor; Unemployment; Politics and Government; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (84%); BNP PARIBAS SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) United Nations

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (84%); LLY (NYSE) (84%); LEL (LSE) (84%); BNP (PAR) (51%); BNP (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (78%) Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Venezuela; Latin America; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



295 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Toys 'R' Us Considers Selling Its Toy Business
Battered by intense competition from discounters like Wal-Mart, Toys ''R'' Us, the nation's largest toy retailer, announced that it might bow out of the toy business completely. The company, which in its heyday pushed rivals out of business as it grew to more than $11 billion in sales, said that it was considering splitting its toy business and its faster-growing baby supplies division, Babies ''R'' Us, into two separate companies and ''to explore the possible sale of the global toy business.''
 Abandoning the world of Barbie and Lego would be a startling denouement for a company that rose to supremacy during the 1990's and became recognized by the bobbing head of its mascot, Geoffrey the Giraffe. [Page A1.]

Ex-BNP Executives Plead Guilty
Two former executives of BNP Paribas North America, the New York-based unit of the large French bank, pleaded guilty to stealing more than $12 million from their employer. [C7.]

Japan Banks Can Resume Talks
A Tokyo court granted an appeal by UFJ Holdings that clears the way for the struggling Japanese bank to resume merger talks with its larger rival, the Mitusbishi Tokyo Financial Group, in a deal that could create the world's largest bank. [World Business, Section W.]

Gold Fields to Acquire Iamgold
Gold Fields, based in Johannesburg, agreed to buy the Iamgold Corporation, based in Toronto, in a stock swap valued at about $2.1 billion, fending off a competing bid from Golden Star Resources. [World Business, Section W.]

Stewart Company in Acquisitions
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia plans to announce that it is purchasing Body & Soul magazine along with a newsletter on self-healing. Advertising. [C4.]

A federal judge declined to throw out perjury charges against the Secret Service ink expert who testified for the government at the Martha Stewart trial. [C4.]

Lay Must Wait for Decision on Trial
Kenneth L. Lay, the former chairman of Enron, must wait until the end of September before a judge will decide whether to separate his fraud trial from those of other former officers of the company. [C9.]

Bush Suggests Change in Taxes
President Bush told supporters in Florida that the United States ought to consider replacing income taxes with a national sales tax. [A20.]

Quarterly Profit Falls at Federated
Federated Department Stores, the owner of Macy's and Bloomingdale's, said that its fiscal second-quarter earnings fell 35 percent as a result of costs to pay down debt and close stores. The company increased its forecast of annual profit. Net income in the three months ended July 31 fell to $78 million, or 43 cents a share, from $120 million, or 64 cents, a year earlier, a sharper drop than analysts had expected. Revenue rose 3.3 percent, to $3.55 billion, the company said. [C2.]

News Corporation, the media company controlled by Rupert Murdoch, said that fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 7.8 percent. [C4.]

Let the Renter of Equipment Beware
Add equipment-leasing deals to the list of financial pitfalls that plague small companies. Small Business. [C8.]

Economics and Islam
Islamic economic principles may sound like just what the Middle East needs. In practice, however, the situation is more complicated. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,938.32 down 6.35Nasdaq composite -- 1,782.42 down 26.2810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.27% down 0.02The euro -- $1.2214 down 0.0017The dollar -- 110.81 yen down 0.61Graph ''TODAY'' shows the percentage change in Retail Sales from Jan. - June 2004.July figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.2%Graph tracks the share price of Federated since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SALES TAX (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); JUDGES (73%); TESTIMONY (71%); TAX LAW (71%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (70%); MERGERS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); LARCENY & THEFT (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: IAMGOLD CORP (83%); MACY'S INC (74%); TOYS 'R' US INC (59%); BNP PARIBAS (NORTH AMERICA) (56%); GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES LTD (54%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (53%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

TICKER: IMG (TSX) (83%); IAG (NYSE) (83%); M (NYSE) (74%); GSS (NYSE MKT) (54%); GSC (TSX) (54%); MSO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (83%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (74%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (59%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004



296 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Fears of Isolation as US Airways Cuts Flights

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Known for its splendid setting at the head of Cayuga Lake, for its frequent appearances on ''best places to live'' lists and for the Cornell University campus perched on the hill above, Ithaca, N.Y., is also a community with an Achilles' heel: it is becoming harder to fly there.
 As recently as 1997, five airlines served the city's pristine jewel box of an airport, Tompkins Regional. Now there is just one, US Airways, and it may not be there much longer.
 On Thursday, the airline delivered some bad news that Ithacans had been bracing for. Come November, the airline will discontinue its four daily flights to Pittsburgh, the US Airways hub where passengers could make connections to most of the country. Nineteen other cities will also lose their Pittsburgh service, US Airways said, as the airline dismantles the hub to concentrate more on point-to-point flying. 
 Ithaca is one of 34 communities, mostly in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic states, that are served only by US Airways, an airline that has already been through one bankruptcy since the Sept. 11 attacks and is struggling hard to avoid another. If it fails and is shut down, those 34 airports will be left without scheduled service.
 Smaller cities across the country have depended for decades on the hub-and-spoke system used by US Airways and other airlines for convenient access to air travel. By funneling passengers through their hubs, the airlines were able to provide more frequent service and connections to more destinations than these small markets could otherwise sustain. ''Ithaca really was designed for the hub-and-spoke system,'' said Robert Nicholas, the manager of the city's airport.
 But that system is being undermined by high costs, the financial aftereffects of the deep slump in air travel after Sept. 11 and the growing willingness of passengers to drive farther to reach a city served by a low-fare airline. 
 Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y., said he doubted that many communities would be able to find a replacement for US Airways. Only cities that qualify for federal subsidies under programs like Essential Air Service, which pays airlines to fly to out-of-the-way communities, or that are willing to subsidize flights may get another airline, he said. Otherwise, ''instead of air-service spokes, they will revert to driving spokes,'' Mr. Mann said.
 Service to Ithaca, 57 miles southwest of Syracuse, does not qualify for federal subsidies, and it has been suffering death by a thousand cuts. Tompkins Regional, where carriers like Mohawk, Empire, Allegheny, Piedmont, Commuter and TWA have come and gone over the years, lost US Airways' last rival four years ago, when Continental Airlines left. 
 US Airways stopped flying mainline jets to Ithaca early in 2003, and now offers only its US Airways Express turboprops and regional jets. When the Pittsburgh flights end in November, Ithacans will be able to fly only to Philadelphia or to LaGuardia Airport in New York. 
 US Airways' declining fortunes are a major cause of the cutbacks, but so are local passengers who would rather drive to Syracuse, Rochester or even Buffalo to catch a flight than pay US Airways' relatively high fares. Passenger volume, which peaked in the mid-1990's, has since fallen more than 25 percent. US Airways and the Ithaca airport divided $60,000 in losses on flights to and from Ithaca in 2003 (one-quarter by the airport; the rest by the airline).
 Even Alfred A. Kahn, a former chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board, often avoids flying from Tompkins Regional. Mr. Kahn was the architect of airline deregulation in the Carter administration, which led the airlines to create the hub-and-spoke networks and start feeder-flight service to scores of cities like Ithaca. 
 At 86, he still cuts a jaunty figure, strolling through Ithaca cane in hand, though he stopped driving after a serious accident two years ago. While he uses the local airport occasionally, he often hires a limousine to take him to Syracuse, where he can fly to Kennedy Airport in New York on JetBlue Airways, the low-fare carrier based in Queens.
 JetBlue's round-trip fare between Syracuse and J.F.K. is about $200, so even after paying $65 each way for the hourlong limo ride, Mr. Kahn saves money compared with US Airways' $550 round-trip fare between Ithaca and LaGuardia. 
 ''The fares are so low and the flights are so pleasant,'' Mr. Kahn said of JetBlue.
 Cornell, the biggest employer in the area, encourages but does not require its staff and faculty to seek the lowest fares when traveling on college business, said Richard McDaniel, associate vice president for campus and business services. Flights from Tompkins Regional are still permitted, Mr. McDaniel said, but Cornell is feeling the pinch of the high fares. ''We don't have a lot of money to burn,'' he said. 
 So, to cut costs and to hedge against the possible loss of air service, the university is starting a bus line linking its Ithaca campus with its medical college in New York City. The 20-seat bus, equipped with tables and ports for laptop computers, will start running on Sept. 7; the fare for the ride, just under five hours each way, will be $149 round-trip. 
 Still, some at the university would rather fly. Mark H. Anbinder, a computer specialist at Cornell, has set up alerts on Travelocity.com, the discount travel Web site, that let him know when US Airways has a fare sale, but he sticks to Tompkins Regional with or without the discounts.
 ''I will pay a premium not to have to drive to Syracuse and spend that three hours in the car,'' he said.
 Rachel Weiner, a senior at Cornell who grew up in Andover, Mass., prefers the air to the highway when she goes home for a weekend, hopping on a 16-seat plane from Ithaca to LaGuardia and then catching the shuttle flight to Boston.
 Flying takes as long as driving, Ms. Weiner said -- about six hours -- but ''the drive is so long and taxing.'' 
 Community leaders have discussed many ideas for increasing passenger traffic, like fare subsidies, marketing campaigns and appeals to airlines to invest in Ithaca. 
 ''How do we reinvent ourselves so that they say, 'Hmm, there's something there?''' asked Barbara Blanchard, a Tompkins County legislator and a member of the local Air Service Task Force.
 The task force, set up in 1997, gained an added sense of urgency when US Airways filed for bankruptcy in 2002 and did not pay fees to the airport for three months. Mr. Nicholas said the airport eventually agreed to accept 10 cents on the dollar for the arrears, a loss that helped knock the airport's operating fund down to about $67,000 from $400,000 in 2001. It is likely to shrink further after the Pittsburgh flights stop.
 Even so, Tompkins Regional remains a point of community pride. The bright and airy terminal, opened in 1994, was a huge improvement over the tiny old cinderblock structure, whose baggage claim amounted to a garage door and a chain-link fence. The first half-hour is free in the short-term parking lot, and an official greeter scurries up with a baggage cart, also free, to meet travelers who are dropped off at the curb.
 Between flights last week, the airport's three US Airways counters stood empty; one airline employee sat reading, while two others looked up with smiles as a handful of people strolled in. There was nothing resembling a line at the Hertz and Avis car rental desks, nor any wait at the security checkpoint -- heaven for a harried traveler, perhaps, but not for Mr. Nicholas. ''I'd rather it was a zoo,'' he said as he led a tour earlier this month.
 Travelers encounter no snags in the terminal, but all too many on the tarmac. As US Airways has shed employees, it has repeatedly had problems finding crews for commuter flights to Ithaca and other small cities, resulting in frequent cancellations and delays. 
 That problem, and the shrinking number of destinations offered by US Airways, has prompted even some of the airport's biggest fans to turn elsewhere. Jean McPheeters, president of the Ithaca Chamber of Commerce, travels frequently to Duluth, Minn., a city US Airways does not serve. She generally drives to Syracuse to catch a Northwest Airlines flight.
 Ms. McPheeters said she was confident that Ithaca could find a replacement for US Airways if necessary. With its scenic beauty and a stable economy dominated by Cornell, Ms. McPheeters said, Ithaca could make a persuasive pitch. Her own preference, she said, would be a low-fare carrier like JetBlue or Independence Air, rather than one of the traditional airlines. 
 But Mr. McDaniel said that community leaders knew they faced competition. Some cities that are losing US Airways service have already formed a lobbying group, the Coalition for Disadvantaged Airports. 
 ''We have a strong economic base in our little region,'' Mr. McDaniel said. ''But other people have wonderful stories to tell, too, so we had better get moving.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Crowding is no problem at Tompkins Regional Airport in Ithaca, one of 34 cities served only by US Airways. (Photo by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. C3)Chart/Map: ''A Few Less Spokes''In parts of the country, US Airways is the only carrier. It announced yesterday that it would discontinue direct service to Pittsburgh from 20 cities. Below, a look at the airline's presence around the country.Map of United States highlighting:34 airports where US Airways is the only carrierAirports where US Airways fliesNumber of weekly departures July '04Discontinuing service to PittsburghMost weekly departures: 83 -- Ithaca, N.Y.Least weekly departures: 8 -- Latrobe, Pa.Note: Only U.S. airports are shown.(Source by Back Aviation Solutions)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); AIR SERVICE (77%); AIR FARES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; Shutdowns (Institutional); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (84%) US Airways

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pittsburgh (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



297 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Threatens to Veto Budget Items He Dislikes

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
With more than a third of the year gone by, New York State finally has a budget. But as details began to filter out Thursday, Gov. George E. Pataki warned that he would veto some of the Legislature's spending proposals.
 Hours after the State Legislature signed off Wednesday night on a $101.3 billion budget that is the most expensive -- and the tardiest -- in state history, the governor attacked the spending plan as a financially irresponsible document that ''spends too much and reforms too little.'' 
 Mr. Pataki, a Republican in his third term as governor, vowed to veto the parts of the budget that he disagreed with, once he and his staff have examined the tens of thousands of appropriations in 12 budget bills. He recalled how, in 1998, he moved similarly in striking 1,000 items that lawmakers had added to his original budget plan.
 ''I have very profound concerns about how this budget affects the fiscal health of this state,'' Mr. Pataki said at a morning news conference in the State Capitol's ornate Red Room. ''We have real concerns that it creates a massive increase'' in projected future shortfalls. ''In the budget I proposed,'' he said, those shortfalls ''were manageable.'' 
 In response, New York's two top legislators, Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader in the State Senate, and Sheldon Silver, Democratic speaker of the State Assembly, each portrayed the budget they passed as solid, warranting no vetoes. They neither promised nor ruled out overrides, at least for now. 
 So, while it was still uncertain which parts of the budget would become law, the full breadth of the leaders' priorities became clear, but only after the votes. 
 On top of a $99.8 billion budget that Mr. Pataki proposed in January, the lawmakers approved about $850 million more in spending that officials said was primarily supported by higher-than-anticipated state tax revenues. While the governor proposed $1.1 billion in new taxes and fees, the lawmakers enacted $700 million.
 The Legislature's plan relies in part on $459 million generated by an extension of the sales tax on clothing under $110; on nursing home owners paying $125 million more in higher assessments; and on gamblers generating $93 million in new revenue by playing more Quick Draw poker games in bars and restaurants.
 The lawmakers also added new long-term debt to the budget. It added $600 million for construction and maintenance of state and city universities over the next five years, bringing that total to nearly $4 billion. It also enacted the governor's plan to raise more than $350 million through new borrowing for private and public colleges, officials said.
 To curb skyrocketing health care costs, the budget assumes from localities the cost of the state's Family Health Plus program, which provides health insurance for certain low-income families. 
 And proving that a budget is more than figures in ledger book, the budget will have a tangible impact: those who like a glass of pinot noir with Sunday dinner may be happy to know that liquor stores will be able to stay open seven days a week, not six, in an effort to drive $2 million in additional tax revenue into state coffers. Part of the budget, though, seemed designed to get around the governor's veto threats. For instance, lawmakers passed $170 million in spending on their own pet projects, and $30 million for the governor's. But to discourage a veto, they linked the spending to money Mr. Pataki planned to use for economic development and job creation. Only half of the cash for pet projects is set to go out this year. 
 The budget was enacted 133 days after the state's April 1 deadline, and was approved with little debate late Wednesday night. Budget watchdogs shook their heads.
 ''New York State's handling of this year's budget is a landmark case of lousy government,'' said Diana Fortuna, the head of the Citizens Budget Commission. ''Its last-minute, late-night passage prevented legislators and the public from understanding what was being adopted.''
 Analysts quickly did the math, but in the opaque world of Albany budgeting, a debate ensued over who had the correct numbers; none of the top elected officials counted the money the same way. Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bruno bickered over whose projection of actual spending last year was closer to the mark, an argument certain to shade a potential veto and override fight going forward.
 The lateness of the budget also had lawmakers wondering if the old sticks meant to prompt passage of a timely budget -- namely, withholding paychecks -- were an adequate incentive. Senator David A. Paterson, a Manhattan Democrat, said he got 11 checks worth about $20,000 on Thursday and cited it as proof that withholding salaries from lawmakers was not an effective way to stop gridlock. Rather, he said, budgets should be treated like round-the-clock labor negotiations.
 ''If you want to hurt a politician you don't take their money, you take their time,'' he said. ''You keep legislators away from their constituents for two weeks and you will have inmates in an asylum and it's true.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); VETO (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (64%); NURSING HOMES (60%); POKER (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%) 

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



298 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; A GOVERNOR RESIGNS: THE POLITICIAN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: On a Fast Track: Power, Turmoil and a Crashing End

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
Growing up in the blue-collar belly of central New Jersey, the son of a former Marine drill sergeant who struggled as a traveling salesman, James Edward McGreevey was always pushing himself toward greatness, eager for self-sacrifice and hungry for the approval of others.
 ''Our lad of great expectations,'' is how the father once described his only son. From his stint on the high school spirit committee to his rapid rise through the local politics of Middlesex County, Mr. McGreevey's political savvy and his back-slapping charm opened doors, earned him allies and helped win elections. He was president of his high school class, became a state official at 28 and made his first bid for elected office at 32. At 36, he was both the mayor of Woodbridge and a state senator. 
 ''With his ambition and drive, I think all of us could have imagined him becoming governor,'' said Jerry Rabadeau, his economics teacher at St. Joseph's High School.
 But few of Mr. McGreevey's early admirers, if any, could have imagined how and why he would have to stop being governor: declaring publicly yesterday that he was gay, and that he had, in effect, led something of a double life, one that included an affair with a man he had once put on the state payroll.
 Still, some friends, colleagues and political observers said it was possible that Mr. McGreevey's great ambitions, and considerable power, might have convinced him that he could successfully keep his other life, and the affair, secret.
 Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University, said Mr. McGreevey's quick ascension may have made him feel invincible, despite his obvious inner turmoil. ''He was shaped by the political culture of Middlesex County, where there was no Republican opposition,'' Mr. Baker said. ''When you come out of a place like that, you feel unassailable because you have people protecting you.''
 But if the details of Mr. McGreevey's reasons for resigning were a shock to some, and a cause for sadness to others, they were part of a larger legacy of disappointment that Mr. McGreevey will leave when he quits the governor's mansion as promised on Nov. 15, supporters and adversaries alike said.
 After campaigning on a platform to clean up the culture of political dysfunction and inside dealing in Trenton, he angered many Republicans with a series of appointments that some said smacked of payback and patronage. Members of his administration and inner circle have left office under investigation.
 And in recent weeks, Mr. McGreevey's image as a possible reformer has been further marred by a corruption scandal involving two men who were key fund-raisers. And finally, even legislative allies have expressed dismay at recent public policy initiatives he has undertaken or supported -- moves they say betray his most basic principles.
 But on the day Mr. McGreevey announced his resignation, even his opponents were reluctant to harp on his missteps and failings. ''In many respects this is almost like a death in the family,'' Senator Diane B. Allen, a South Jersey Republican who has been one of the governor's more vocal critics. ''We may be Republicans and Democrats, or we may be from the north or the south, but right now we're all in this together.''
 Among the deepest disappointments, many said, were his failed effort to drastically overhaul New Jersey's notoriously troubled campaign finance system, and a recent legislative proposal that would make it easier for developers to build.
 Some supporters, though, loyally insisted that Mr. McGreevey's time in office was not without significant triumphs: his efforts to improve the state's troubled E-ZPass system and the modest property-tax rebate, paid for by the state's wealthiest residents, that he pushed through against considerable odds.
 ''McGreevey accomplished a lot that benefited working people and the middle class,'' said Phyllis Salowe-Kaye, the executive director of New Jersey Citizen Action, the state's largest consumer watchdog group. ''To us, he's been a courageous fighter.''
 James Florio, the former governor and a Democrat, said he had been looking forward to Mr. McGreevey taking on one of the thorniest issues facing New Jersey residents: property tax reform.
 Mr. McGreevey, after narrowly losing to Gov. Christie Whitman in 1997, found his opening in 2001, when Mrs. Whitman left office early to serve as Environmental Protection Agency administrator in the newly elected Bush administration. After the main Republican contender, acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco pulled out of the race under a cloud of allegations about lapsed ethics, Mr. McGreevey handily defeated Bret D. Schundler, a Republican. 
 Buoyed by his victory, Mr. McGreevey began his term in 2002 brimming with confidence and promising New Jerseyeans that his fiscally responsible brand of populism offered them boundless possibilities. In his inaugural address he invoked Abraham Lincoln and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., promising to rein in a huge budget deficit, fight terrorism and revamp the public school system -- all without resorting to broad-based tax increases or excessive borrowing.
 But nearly as soon as he took office, Mr. McGreevey showed a surprising and persistent knack for mishandling the tricky political landscape of the state capital. He angered powerful Democratic Party bosses by reneging on promises to finance their pet projects, and in several instances offered the same coveted appointment to several candidates at the same time. He backed away from his promise not to raise taxes, and set off a flurry of complaints by floating a short-lived proposal to raise property taxes in low-income neighborhoods.
 Most embarrassing was Mr. McGreevey's parade of ill-fated appointments: his first chief of staff and chief counsel resigned amid allegations that they misused their office; his state police director was forced out after accusations that he interfered with an investigation into his background; one of Mr. McGreevey's nominees for the State Supreme Court was forced to withdraw from consideration because she drove to her background interview with a suspended license and was the subject of a bench warrant for failing to pay traffic tickets. Even Mr. McGreevey's choice for poet laureate, Amiri Baraka, turned into a headache when he read an inflammatory poem suggesting that the Israelis had received advanced warning of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 But for all that, many in the state were left yesterday grappling with the speed of his fall.
 ''I'm in a state of shock and disbelief,'' said State Senator Shirley K. Turner, a Democrat from South Jersey. ''I think it's a courageous act on his part and it must have taken a lot of soul searching to reach that point, because I know how much he loves his job and how much he loves the state of New Jersey.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 13 about the political career of Gov. James E. McGreevey referred incorrectly in some copies to Zulima Farber, a candidate for a State Supreme Court appointment in 2003 who had a history of traffic violations. The governor abandoned his plans to nominate her; she was never a nominee. 
 The article also referred incorrectly in some copies to the process by which Amiri Baraka became the state's poet laureate in August 2002, an appointment widely criticized after he gave a reading of a poem implying that Israel knew in advance about the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center. He was chosen by a committee appointed by two state arts groups, not by Mr. McGreevey.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1997, James E. McGreevey campaigned for governor in Perth Amboy. He lost narrowly but kept running and put together a coalition that won handily in 2001. He has struggled politically ever since. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); SCANDALS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); ETHICS (61%); CORRUPTION (60%) Ethics; Governors (US); Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Homosexuality; Patronage; Biographical Information; Finances; Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Middlesex County (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



299 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S CHOICE/Film; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: The Absolutely Noirest of the Noir

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
Last week's release of Michael Mann's new urban thriller, ''Collateral,'' set a lot of critics, including Manohla Dargis and A. O. Scott of The New York Times, to thinking about that particular brand of film noir native to Los Angeles. Mr. Mann's film, like many of the L.A. noirs before it, presents the city in its sinister, nocturnal mode, a landscape from which most human figures have vanished, to be replaced by gliding four-wheeled fortresses and shadowy palm trees waving against a purple sky. 
 Despite Mr. Mann's honest efforts, the ultimate L.A. noir remains Robert Aldrich's 1955 ''Kiss Me Deadly,'' which will close a series called ''Paradise (Lost): Los Angeles on Film'' with a screening at 1 p.m. on Sunday at the American Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens. (Mr. Mann's 1995 ''Heat'' will be shown at 3:30.) 
 Working from one of the notoriously trashy Mike Hammer novels by Mickey Spillane, Aldrich plainly couldn't stand his hero, a thuggish private eye played with a permanent leer by the Broadway transplant Ralph Meeker. Aldrich's Mike Hammer is a sort of low, cunning animal let loose in a cultural landscape he knows nothing about (emphasized by the film's frequent references to classical music, romantic poetry and modern art) and will eventually come close to annihilating when his blundering investigation of a murder leads him to a scientist smuggling atomic secrets. 
 Filmed partly amid the mix of crumbling Victorian mansions and low-rise office buildings that was the Bunker Hill neighborhood (destroyed to make room for downtown development in the 1960's), ''Kiss Me Deadly'' imagines the city as a gothic nightmare. (See also Mr. Aldrich's ''Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?'') Not for Aldrich are Mr. Mann's carefully aestheticized images of a city softly glowing at night; the night skies of ''Kiss Me Deadly'' have the darkness and coldness of anthracite. Like ''Collateral,'' the film gives a sense of community consisting of isolated pockets of warmth and light, connected by endless, empty streets. But where Mr. Mann's film alludes to a whole world of night workers -- cabbies, thieves, cops and lawyers -- Aldrich's characters are frightened, isolated individuals, holed up by themselves in dank apartments. 
 Aldrich, a New York liberal (and a member of the Rockefeller family), puts as much distance as possible between himself and his Paleolithic protagonist -- enough that the French critic Jacques Lourcelles has described ''Kiss Me Deadly'' as a turning point in American cinema, from classical sincerity to modernist irony. The film is structured as a series of semi-lucid moments between Hammer's frequent blackouts, caused by car wrecks and pistol whippings, as if his were a consciousness capable only of sporadic illumination, like one of the flickering neon signs seen in the backgrounds.
 Always acting in narrowly defined self-interest, Aldrich's Hammer is the postwar American on the make, unconcerned with ideals, who is chasing dames and dollars with equal, unthinking desire. Next to him, even Mr. Mann's buttoned-down professional killer, played by Tom Cruise, seems as professionally compassionate as a group therapy leader, gently pushing the cabdriver played by Jamie Foxx to follow his bliss (and open the limousine service he's always dreamed of). There is no room for redemption in ''Kiss Me Deadly.'' The only cure for what ails this urban landscape is spelled out in the film's literally explosive finale. 
 ''Paradise (Lost): Los Angeles on Film'' runs through Sunday at the American Museum of the Moving Image, 36-01 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens. Museum admission: $10; 65+ and students, $7.50; ages 5 to 18, $5. Free for members and children 4 and younger and for everyone on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.(screenings extra). Information: (718) 784-0077 or www.movingimage.us.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Meeker, playing the leering, blundering gumshoe in Robert Aldrich's 1955 ''Kiss Me Deadly,'' being worked over by thugs. (Photo by Universal Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); FILM GENRES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); CITIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); SMUGGLING (64%); OFFICE PROPERTY (63%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (60%) Motion Pictures; Reviews 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (56%)

PERSON: Dave Kehr; Robert Aldrich

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



300 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 3144 words

HEADLINE: 'Black' Comes in Many Shadings

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
WHEN the Studio Museum in Harlem introduced a group of young African-American artists in the show called ''Freestyle'' a few years ago, the curator, Thelma Golden, called them post-black artists, and caused a ruckus. She was describing artists who didn't feel obliged to refer to ethnicity or racial history in their work or, if they did, were inclined to distance themselves from the references, put them in quotes -- ''race,'' ''power'' -- and so on.
 Ms. Golden was making a suggestion, offering an opportunity, opening a door rather than closing one. But she hit a nerve and got a lot of people thinking about exactly what black art is and might be. Did blackness reside in subject matter? In style? Did the ethnic background of the artist justify, even require the use of the label, even if the art itself was, say, abstract? Other questions arose. In what way was African-American art African? And what does ''American'' mean, anyway, in a country whose demographics are all over the world map? 
 However you define it, there is a surprising amount of black and post-black art around at present. I say surprising because only a decade or so ago mainstream shows devoted to black artists were rare events, more often than not confined to the month of February. But last week, on a day trip from New York City to Baltimore, with stops in Newark and Wilmington, Del., I could take in four museum exhibitions of work by African-Americans, as well as some gallery shows and an unusual museum devoted to African-American cultural history. Each offered something different: black art by white artists, African-American art by African artists, examples of black power abstraction, and solid proof that post-black art has been part of the American picture for almost a century, and probably longer.
 You can get a bird's-eye view of that century in the survey called ''African-American Masters: Highlights From the Smithsonian American Art Museum'' at the Delaware Art Museum in Wilmington. It's one of several shows that have been culled from the Smithsonian's deep closets and sent out on the road while the American Art Museum receives a makeover. With 50 paintings, sculptures and photographs on hand, ranging in date from 1913 to 1996, in style from figurative realism to abstraction, and in theme from urban cityscapes to floral still lifes, the show explodes ''African-American'' as a descriptive term. Much of the work depicts scenes from African-American life, but that life is far from uniform. As seen here, it encompasses Virginia farmers and opera singers, bow-tied black Muslims in Harlem and bikers in a Maryland park who, with their Afros and attitude, could be the Jeff, Gene, Geronimo and Bop of Gwendolyn Brooks's poem ''The Leaders.'' (''Hardly Belafonte, King, Black Jesus, Stokley, Malcolm X or Rap. Their country is a Nation on no map.'')
 Certain artists in the show spent careers shifting between black and nonblack subjects and styles in their art. William H. Johnson paints deceptively simple figures of rural American blacks on their way to church, but also woozily Expressionist scenes of the French Riviera. Similarly, Lois Mailou Jones (1905-98) moved between Neo-Impressionist landscapes and the elegantly cubistic image of an African mask seen here.
 The black content of Hughie Lee-Smith's ''Stranger'' (1957-58), with its scene of a pale-skinned man standing alone against a bleak landscape, was retrospective. The exhibition catalog tells us that it was only when the artist saw the picture 30 years after painting it that he understood it to be a personal emblem of his own alienation as a black man. That's when he gave it its title.

Blackness and Abstraction
 Then there is the question of blackness and abstraction. In the early 1960's, several African-American abstract painters who wanted to contribute to the civil rights effort formed a group called Spiral and shifted to figurative work. Romare Bearden (1912-88) was one of them, and he never turned back. Felrath Hines (1913-1993) was another member of the group, but he went the other way, further into abstraction. His big hard-edge geometric ''Yellow and Gray'' (1976) is one of the show's most striking entries, in part because it looks like nothing else. Possibly that is why Hines still holds only a marginal spot in the history books.
 As an aside, it's worth noting that yet another Spiral member, ''Charles Spinky Alston (1907-77), has a mini-retrospective at Bill Hodges Gallery in Manhattan. Like Hines, he started working figuratively, then turned abstract. Mr. Hodges suggests, in a slender catalog, that Alston was operating on what W. E. B. Du Bois termed a ''double consciousness,'' by which blacks saw themselves as they were seen in the larger society: as American but also as ''different'' Americans. He decided he didn't want to be perceived as a black painter, with the strictures that could impose; for that reason he went with an ethnically neutral abstraction.
 Actually, abstraction can have a specific ethnic and political content. In Norman Lewis's ''Evening Rendezvous'' (1962), in Wilmington, what look like fleet white vertical paint strokes turn out to be tiny hooded figures surrounded by red flames and blue smoke. But such hybrid work is uncommon, and abstract work by African-Americans has on the whole been badly neglected. Occasional surveys turn up; but no major museum has touched this material in an in-depth way.
 Further complicating matters of art and ethnicity is a second, smaller show at the Delaware Art Museum, '' 'Glorious Dignity': Drawings of the Montgomery Bus Boycott by Harvey Dinnerstein and Burton Silverman.'' The two artists went to Alabama in 1956 to record the unfolding drama of one of the great early civil rights protests. They drew portraits of the boycott leaders in action, among them the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., whose words give the show its title. But most of their pictures are of Montgomery's black citizens sitting in court or walking home or to work or to the market, as the boycotters did for more than a year. 
 The 46 drawings in the show, detailed but unfancy, are worthy visual complements to Jo Ann Gibson Robinson's renowned memoir of the boycott. Mrs. Robinson was a black Montgomerian; Mr. Dinnerstein and Mr. Silverman are white New Yorkers. But who is to say that their Montgomery drawings are not, in an important sense, African-American images?
 The ambiguity of blackness is the subject of ''One True Thing, Meditations on Black Aesthetics,'' an intricate, self-challenging solo show of work from the last five years by Kerry James Marshall, at the Baltimore Museum of Art. Based in Chicago, Mr. Marshall is best known as a figurative painter of emblematic narratives about black urban life and the spoiled utopia of the 1960's. Although he includes paintings in the show, much of the work is sculpture, photography and video. And in stretching himself formally, he generates a dizzying flow of ideas that alternately confirm and question the continuing viability of something called black art.
 A few pieces directly address historical facts: slavery, lynchings, the killing of four black girls by a terrorist bomb in Birmingham, Ala., where Mr. Marshall was born in 1955. These are realities that define black American history as different but inseparable from white American history. You may or may not believe that they are still operative in the present. Mr. Marshall believes they are. Does this make them a worthy subject for art? Yes. Are they Mr. Marshall's subjects? Sometimes.
 But most of his art is in the interrogative rather than declarative mode. He is fundamentally a realist, and therefore a questioner of symbols and illusion. In the diptych titled ''Color-Blind Test,'' he paints bust-length images of a man and a woman in the center of Marcus Garvey's Black Nationalist flag. The figures give a raised-fist salute, emblematic of 1960's black power. The colors of the flag are emblematic, too: red for blood, green for Africa and black for black skin. But the potent energy they once represented is defused. The flag's colors are reduced to wan pastels; the faces and fists half-obscured by an all-over polka-dot pattern. The dots derive from a scientific test for color-blindness; here they threaten to turn icons of past radicalism into festive decoration.
 The best work in this show, though, is a series of ink drawings for a comic strip called ''Rythm Mastr'' that the artist began in 1999. The title character is a kind of black superman who comes to the aid of a young boy trapped in a crime-ridden inner-city neighborhood. He teaches the boy how to bring a collection of traditional African sculptures to life through the sound of drumming, and to use the animated sculptures as a positive force.
 So, Africa and America, good and evil, fantasy and reality join forces here, as do past and future. Mr. Marshall has said that with the work in this exhibition he is leaving the civil rights era behind as a theme. He's done very well by it. And how great to know that one of our best moral thinkers will be turning his history-painter's eye on where we are now and where we are headed.

History in Three Dimensions
 African-American history is brought to life through sculpture in another Baltimore institution, the National Great Blacks in Wax Museum. Established in a storefront in 1983 by Elmer P. and Joanne Martin, and now occupying three floors of a building in East Baltimore, the museum is Madame Tussaud's with a message: it illustrates African-American history, from a walk-in tableau of a ship packed with manacled slaves, to ultra-realistic figures of contemporary politicians and sports heroes.
 The realism turns gruesome in depictions of lynching, torture and other forms of racial violence in a basement gallery, and the temptation to treat the museum as a species of kitsch is cut short. What you're looking at in these painted wax images of mutilated bodies and severed limbs is a literal, clinical visualization of the dark historical realities alluded to in Mr. Marshall's work, and the images are intense. 
 In this museum, which makes no claims to being an art museum, African-American identity is defined by history, and the dynamic of that history is clear. Black people suffered because of racism, and survived and achieved success despite it. Over all, the emphasis is on achievement, though any note of triumphalism is subdued. The afternoon I was there, the place was crowded with visitors, far more than I saw anywhere else. The museum recently bought all the buildings on its block and plans to expand.
 To learn something about the African part of the African-American experience, I recommend a look at the Ethiopian paintings and sculptures at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. Although this is the largest Ethiopian collection outside Addis Abba, it is still very small. It is also very fabulous.
 The Atlantic slave trade operated primarily out of West Africa, but Ethiopia to the east has played an important role in African-American identity. The oldest Christian country in Africa and a charismatic presence in the biblical psalms, it is evoked in the words ''Abyssinia'' and ''Zion'' found in the names of African-American churches. The Jamaican politico-religious movement Rastafarianism is named for the Ethiopian emperor Haile Selassie (1892-1975), who was also called Ras (Prince) Tafar. It was under his rule that slavery was made illegal in Ethiopia. Rastafarians believed that all the people in the African diaspora would in the end return to Africa and find a paradise on earth.
 Despite its symbolic significance, the Christian art of Ethiopia has only recently gained attention in the United States, largely thanks to the 1993 exhibition ''African Zion: The Sacred Art of Ethiopia,'' which appeared at the Schomburg Center in Harlem and later at the Walters. With its icon paintings, processional crosses and illuminated gospels, it is a wondrous art, a tight weave of Byzantine, Italian Renaissance and indigenous traditions that has a look and a spirit entirely its own.
 More of this material is also on view this summer at the Newark Museum in ''Objects of Devotion: Traditional Art of Ethiopia.'' This exquisite little gathering is meant to complement a second show, ''My Ethiopia: Recent Paintings by Wosene Worke Kosrof,'' in which an Africa-America connection is updated and made concrete.
 Organized by Christa Clarke, the museum's new curator of art from Africa, the Americas and the Pacific, it brings together 14 recent paintings by Wosene (as he refers to himself professionally). He was born in 1950, came to the United States in 1978 after Haile Selassie had been deposed, and is now an American citizen. He studied at Howard University in Washington with the influential American artist Jeff Donaldson, who died this year. 

Glittering Colors
 Like ''Rythm Mastr,'' Wosene links African and American culture, but in a different way, by blending written letters from the Amharic language of Ethiopia with Western-style gestural painting. The results are abstract, but richly coded, with fractured texts, personal symbols (the shape of his childhood home in ''Words of Memory'') and a palette of jewel-like colors -- reds, yellows and greens -- associated with Ethiopian icon paintings.
 Is Wosene an African artist? An American artist? Modern? Postmodern? He is all of these. And however indirectly, his art is a reminder that African art may borrow elements of modern Western style, but in absolutely essential ways, Western modernist art originated in Africa. The link is forged yet again in the work of the young Kenyan-born artist Wangechi Mutu, one of three participants in this year's artist-in-residence show at the Studio Museum in Harlem. Dave McKenzie and William Villalongo are the others. All three were born in the 1970's; they are members -- in excellent standing, I would say -- of Ms. Golden's post-black generation.

Playing With Racial Identity
 In this show, organized by Christine Y. Kim, assistant curator at the museum, black racial identity is everywhere, but collaged, massaged, spoofed, battered, sliced up, sent up, and given Frankensteinian forms, sweetly monstrous. In Mr. Villalongo's crisp paintings, an interracial crew of putti cavort in dense jungles and on Mars. Ms. Mutu mixes clipped magazine images of fashion models and machines with painting to create a species of bionic banshees who seem to live in grasslands and wear leopard-skin scarves.
 Mr. McKenzie, much of whose work is conceptual and performance-based, makes a deceptively light-handed thing of his identity as a black man. For a show at the Queens Museum, he created a pinata version of himself, hung it from the ceiling and let someone smash it open. As seen on video, the eager youngsters on hand who scramble for the goodies that spilled out are oblivious to the lynching reference. 
 With a bit of editing magic, Mr. McKenzie also manages to insert himself prominently in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. And throughout his Studio Museum stay he has periodically walked the streets of Harlem dressed in a business suit and wearing a Bill Clinton head, as if to make up for the fact that the neighborhood's most prominent nonblack tenant seems hardly ever to be around. In his Clinton guise, he has been greeted with both cheers and jeers, and sometimes mistaken for the man himself. With artists like Mr. McKenzie around, a shrewd critical take on race and politics will never be wanting.
 Nor should it be. Race, as a concept, however artificial, is reinforced and manipulated at every level of American society. The idea of post-black, intended to expand freedom of choice, carries potentially troubling implications in light of the recent revisionist push for color-blindness in matters of social and economic policy, a development some see as a reassertion of white power.
 Even in the art world, despite the present raised visibility for black artists, a token system is still in effect, requiring them to seek support in racially specific contexts and to concentrate on certain kinds of art. Indeed, a survey like the one you are reading is as much a part of the problem as it is of the solution. And what is that solution? Artists keep making art; we keep looking at what they make; and we all think together as hard as we can.

On the Trail

The exhibitions in Holland Cotter's Critic's Notebook article:

''AFRICAN-AMERICAN MASTERS: HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN ART MUSEUM'' and '' 'GLORIOUS DIGNITY': DRAWINGS OF THE MONTGOMERY BUS BOYCOTT BY HARVEY DINNERSTEIN AND BURTON SILVERMAN,'' Delaware Art Museum, Bank One Center on the Riverfront, 800 South Madison Street, Wilmington. Through Sept. 5 (302) 571-9590. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $7; 60+, $5; elementary school pupils, $2.50; free on Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.

''KERRY JAMES MARSHALL: ONE TRUE THING, MEDITATIONS ON BLACK AESTHETICS,'' Baltimore Museum of Art, 10 Art Museum Drive, (410) 396-7100. Through Sept. 5. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $7; students and 62+, $5; free on first Thursdays of each month, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. (The show travels to the Studio Museum in Harlem, Oct. 13 to Jan. 9, and the Birmingham Museum of Art in Alabama, Feb. 3 to April 24.)

THE NATIONAL GREAT BLACKS IN WAX MUSEUM, 1601-03 East North Avenue, Baltimore, (410) 563-3404. A permanent display. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $6.80; college students and 55+, $6.30; ages 12 to 17, $4.80; 2 to 11, $4.55.

ETHIOPIAN COLLECTION, Walters Art Museum, 600 North Charles Street, Baltimore, (410) 547-9000. A permanent display. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; 65+, $6; college students and ages 18 to 25, $5; free on Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.

''MY ETHIOPIA: RECENT PAINTINGS BY WOSENE WORKE KOSROF'' and ''OBJECTS OF DEVOTION: TRADITIONAL ART OF ETHIOPIA,'' Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street, (973) 596-6550. Through Oct. 3. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Suggested donation: $5; children, students and 62+, $2.

''FIGURATIVELY: ARTISTS IN RESIDENCE 2003-2004'' and ''SEEDS AND ROOTS: SELECTIONS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,'' Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. Through Sept. 25. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Suggested donation: $7; students and 60+, $3; ages 12 and under, free.

CHARLES SPINKY ALSTON, Bill Hodges Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 333-2640. Through tomorrow. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 12:30 to 5:30 p.m.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above left, ''Les Fetiches'' (1938) by Lois Mailou Jones, currently at the Delaware Art Museum
above right, Wangechi Mutu's ''Ugly Duckling'' (2003), in the artists-in-residence show at the Studio Museum in Harlem. Top, ''Words of Memory'' (2002) by Wosene Worke Kosrof, in Newark. (Photo by Marc Bernier/Studio Museum in Harlem)
(Photo by Smithsonian American Art Museum)
(Photo by Black Cat Studio/Newark Museum)(pg. E31)
Part of Kerry James Marshall's diptych ''Color-Blind Test,'' above, and Felrath Hines's ''Yellow and Gray.'' (Photos by Above, Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago
 below, Smithsonian American Art Museum)(pg. E29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); PAINTING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); RELIGION (50%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%) Art; Blacks; Reviews; Art

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Delaware Art Museum; Baltimore Museum of Art; National Great Blacks In Wax Museum (Baltimore, Md); Walters Art Museum (Baltimore, Md); Newark Museum; Smithsonian American Art Museum

PERSON: Holland Cotter; Harvey Dinnerstein; Burton Silverman; Kerry James Marshall; Wosene Worke Kosrof; Charles Spinky Alston

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) DELAWARE, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



301 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rise as Initial Jobless Claims Drop

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
United States retail sales rose last month and initial jobless claims unexpectedly declined to the lowest level in five weeks, according to reports released yesterday, signs that the economic expansion regained momentum in the third quarter.
 Retail sales increased 0.7 percent, to an annual rate of $336.5 billion, as Americans spent more on cars and furniture, the Commerce Department said. June sales fell 0.5 percent instead of the 1.1 percent drop first reported. 
 The number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits for the first time fell by 4,000, to 333,000 last week, the Labor Department said, the second consecutive week they showed a decline. The median forecast was for claims to rise to 340,000. The four-week moving average fell to 339,250 from 343,500.
 Economists had expected retail sales to rise 1.2 percent. The lower-than-expected result was countered in part by the revision to June, economists said. Retail sales account for almost 60 percent of all consumer spending.
 Auto sales rose in July as automakers increased discounts after cars and light trucks sold in June at the slowest pace in six years. Sales at automobile dealerships and parts stores rose 2.4 percent last month after falling 3 percent the month earlier. Excluding vehicles and parts, July sales rose 0.2 percent after rising 0.3 percent a month earlier. 
 Furniture sales increased 1.1 percent after rising 2.6 percent the previous month. Sales at department stores and other general merchandise outlets rose 1 percent last month after falling 0.2 percent in June. Sales at clothing and accessory stores fell 0.1 percent after declining 0.5 percent.
 Sales at electronics and appliance stores rose 0.2 percent in July. Purchases at sporting goods, hobby, book and music outlets advanced 1.3 percent while sales at food and beverage stores increased 0.1 percent. Sales at restaurants and bars rose 0.6 percent.
 Purchases excluding autos and building materials, the category used in the Commerce Department's calculation of personal consumption in its report on gross domestic product, rose 0.4 percent after rising 0.2 percent in June.
 Consumer spending was forecast to rise at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter, based on the median estimate of 48 economists polled by Bloomberg News. Spending rose 1 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace since the 2001 recession.
 In another report yesterday, the Labor Department said that United States companies paid 0.2 percent more for imported goods and materials last month than in June, as prices for oil, chemicals and metals rose. The increase in the import price index, the ninth in the last 10 months, followed a 0.1 percent decrease in June, the Labor Department said in Washington.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph tracks initial jobless claims (4-week moving average) from February to July.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.July: +0.7%June: -0.5May: +1.4Graph tracks total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from February 2003 to July 2004.(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (96%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (78%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (67%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (66%); IMPORT PRICES (63%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (50%) United States Economy; Sales; Automobiles; Furniture; Retail Stores and Trade; Apparel; Food; Supermarkets; Beverages; Restaurants ; United States Economy; Bars; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



302 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Fed Cites Inflation and Wages for June Increase

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Higher inflation, business confidence and compensation costs prompted Federal Reserve policy makers to raise the benchmark interest rate for the first time in four years on June 30, minutes of the meeting showed.
 ''Members focused particular attention on the outlook for inflation,'' according to minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting, released yesterday. ''Factors cited in this regard included large increases in prices of energy and intermediate materials, both of which appeared to be passing through at least in part to core consumer prices.'' 
 The minutes show that Fed members were committed to returning the overnight bank lending rate to a level more consistent with stable prices, economists said. The same view appeared to prevail this week, when the Fed on Tuesday raised the rate another 0.25 percentage points to 1.5 percent, the economists said.
 The Federal Reserve voted unanimously to raise the rate a quarter-point to 1.25 percent in June after holding it for a year at the lowest level since 1958. The Fed increased the rate again this week even after a Labor Department report on Friday showed a gain of 32,000 jobs, the weakest this year and about an eighth of the forecast.
 At the June meeting, members were divided on the outlook for higher prices. Some expected a slow decrease in unemployed workers, steady long-term inflation expectations, productivity gains and ''one-time price increases.''
 Other members ''tended to emphasize the changes in business attitudes and expectations, the strength in labor compensation, and the tendency for underlying inflation trends to be subject to considerable momentum that was unlikely to be reversed quickly.''
 Policy makers again debated the use of language as a tool to signal the path of interest rates. The phrase ''measured'' remained in the June statement, and members appended it with a new sentence that stated the committee's commitment to respond to higher prices.
 ''The persistence of solid gains in output and employment along with indications of some increase in inflation were seen as warranting a first step in the process of removing policy accommodation,'' the minutes said. ''A more aggressive pace toward reaching a neutral policy stance might be called for so as to provide assurance of containing emerging inflationary pressures and averting the potential need for greater tightening over time.''
 The Fed said in its June meeting that the risks to sustained growth and of higher inflation were ''roughly equal.'' The minutes note that some members viewed the risks tilted toward higher inflation if the committee did not begin a cycle of higher rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); TRENDS (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



303 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Najaf Assault Continues In Bid to Isolate Cleric
American forces in Iraq threw a wide cordon of troops and armor around Najaf's heart in the eighth day of clashes, but the plumes of smoke and movement of tanks seemed to represent a newly scaled-down objective -- isolating, rather than vanquishing, the militia loyal to a rebel Shiite cleric. A1

The advance into Najaf aroused anger and frustration among Shiite Muslims abroad, with many blaming the United States for what they described as an intentional and brutal humiliation by a foreign occupation force that would provoke outrage if any holy shrines were destroyed. A8

A company that supplies civilian interrogators to the American military in Iraq said its own investigation and information supplied by the Army had so far produced no ''credible or tangible evidence'' that its employees were involved in the abuses of prisoners there. A8

Senior officials in Baku, Azerbaijan met with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. They remain committed to the stabilization of Iraq, for which they have contributed 150 soldiers, but gave no public indication that they would send additional troops. A8

Two major contractors for the United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq have agreed to cooperate with congressional panels investigating allegations that Saddam Hussein's government siphoned billions of dollars from the relief effort. A6

Disreputable Seminary Closed
The Vatican has shut down a seminary in Austria that was accused of housing widespread sexual misconduct, including the distribution of child pornography. Austrian investigators have found about 40,000 pornographic photographs and many videos on computers at the seminary since news of the scandal erupted late last year. A3

Nazis Resurfacing in France
A wave of neo-Nazi acts have swept France this year. Many officials suggest the incidents are meant to repudiate the 60th anniversary commemorations of the Allied offensive that drove Hitler's forces out of France. Neo-Nazism is abhorred by the vast majority of French, but is nonetheless tolerated. A3

Chavez Reconciles With Defeat
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said that victory in Sunday's referendum on his rule was ''inevitable,'' as the opposition appears to have lost momentum. The opposition worked hard to counter that impression in the last day of campaigning. A4

Singapore Premier Sworn In
Lee Hsien Loong, the elder son of the founder of modern Singapore, was sworn in as prime minister at an outdoor ceremony attended by 1,400 people drawn from all parts of society. Of uppermost concern for Mr. Lee will be job growth and sustaining the rebound in the economy. A9

NATIONAL A12-17

Gay Marriges Not Valid, California Court Rules
The California Supreme Court ruled that a blitz of same-sex weddings in February and March had no standing under state law and declared the marriages ''void and of no legal effect from their inception.'' A1

Florida Braces for Hurricane
As Tropical Storm Bonnie drenched the Florida Panhandle, the state prepared for Hurricane Charley, which is expected to be the fiercest storm to hit the Tampa Bay area since 1960. A12

Youth Fails to Buy Gun Maker
A California teenager paralyzed by a defectively designed semiautomatic handgun lost his bid to buy the company that made the gun. A14

Census Bureau Faulted
Troubled by the disclosure that the Census Bureau has provided demographic data on Arab Americans to the Department of Homeland Security, more than 50 organizations have signed a letter of complaint. A11

Sharp Criticism on the Trail
Senator John Kerry likened President Bush's stewardship on the economy to Herbert Hoover's, while Vice President Dick Cheney poked fun at Mr. Kerry's promise to fight a ''more sensitive'' war on terror. A16

Signs of al Qaeda Surveillance
Al Qaeda operatives updated surveillance studies at financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington as recently as this spring, according to a senior White House official who said the authorities had no direct evidence of an active plot. A10

Times Reporter Is Subpoenaed
A reporter for The New York Times, Judith Miller, was subpoenaed by a Washington grand jury investigating the disclosure of the identity of a C.I.A. undercover officer to the columnist Robert Novak and other journalists. A14

Tax Cuts for the Wealthy
One-third of President Bush's tax cuts over the last three years went to people in the top one percent of income, earning an average of $1.2 million dollars. A16

Making Prisoners Pay for Time
Corrections officers and politicians are more frequently billing inmates for their room and board, an idea popular with voters. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

McGreevey Resigns, Disclosing Gay Affair
Governor McGreevey of New Jersey disclosed that he was gay and had had an extramarital affair with another man, and announced that he would resign Nov. 15, a year before his term would have expired. Aides to the governor said the affair was with a former aide, Golan Cipel, who was hired by the governor in 2002 as an adviser to the state Office of Homeland Security. The aides said Mr. Cipel had threatened to file a lawsuit accusing the governor of sexual harassment. A1

Grief for Storm Victims
The families and friends of Alana Berenson and Joseph Cheetham, college sweethearts who were electrocuted as they stepped out of their stalled car at a Queens intersection, mourned their loss. B1

Lawmakers Go Home
New York State's lawmakers went home after passing the latest budget in the state's history and failing to resolve a host of other issues. B1

Elevator Operator Killed
An elevator operator in one of Times Square's newest towers was killed when a freight elevator malfunctioned and jettisoned his cab up into a rooftop bulkhead. B1

WEEKEND E1-28;E29-36

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-8

P.G.A. Championship
On the first day of the P.G.A. Championship, the Whistling Straits golf course was not as tough as everyone thought. Shooting a seven-under-par 65, Darren Clarke held a one-stroke lead over Ernie Els and Justin Leonard after a day when 60 of the 155 players shot under par. D1

OBITUARIES A19

Leslie Revsin
A culinary trailblazer who achieved celebrity early in her career as the first woman to work as a chef in the kitchen of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York, she was 59. A19

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Hewlett Earnings Fall Short
Hewlett-Packard, the computer maker, reported that its earnings for the third quarter fell short of Wall Street expectations. But analysts cautioned against drawing broader conclusions about the technology sector because the drop in earnings was primarily attributable to problems inside the company. C1

Dell Inc. said that its quarterly profit rose 29 percent, delivering results and an outlook that were in sharp contrast to those from its rival Hewlett-Packard. C2

Oil Prices Set Record
Oil prices set a record again on concerns about production disruptions this week in Iraq and continued uncertainty about the fate of Yukos, Russia's largest oil producer. C1

US Airways May Cut Service
US Airways, an airline struggling hard to avoid another bankruptcy, will leave 34 airports without scheduled service if it is forced to shut down. C1

United Airlines pension investment results were not far out of step with those of other funds, but the losses had a far more devastating effect on the fund because they coincided with United's own business troubles. C1

Interview Raises Concern
Google moved forward with its public stock offering, even as an interview with its founders raised more questions about whether the offering can be completed this month. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The governor's secret; counting medals in Athens; Africa's health-care brain drain.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword B25
TV Listings E27
Public Lives B4
Weather C16


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); RELIGION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MISCONDUCT (75%); SCANDALS (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%); LEE HSIEN LOONG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); AUSTRIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



304 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Counting Medals in Athens

 BODY:
The Olympic Games are back again, and many of us will stay glued to our television sets for the next two weeks, joining the rest of the world in rooting for the home teams and waiting for that memorable human drama: the star runner who stumbles or the tiny gymnast who nails a landing on a sore ankle. Inevitably, we'll also be hoping for some Cinderella moments, like an underdog Greek who captures the marathon, or more stellar performances by the beleaguered Iraqi soccer team, which won an upset victory yesterday.
 American athletes don't get to be Cinderellas -- it's hard to equate growing up in the world's economic and military superpower with sitting around in the Olympic ashes. NBC commentators will give the home audience the back stories of hardship, injury and personal trauma behind our national team members, but the rest of the globe will probably find it hard to sympathize. 
 While many countries turn a local bronze medal winner into a national hero, our top contenders will be judged disappointments if they fail to come back with a chest full of gold. Given all the speculation that the American swimmer Michael Phelps may get a record eight medals, there's a distinct possibility that Mr. Phelps may wind up feeling terrible if he wins only three or four. 
 The greatest moments in Olympic history are so thrilling that they transcend any thought of the countries involved. But for the rest of the time, overtones of nationality are omnipresent, from the opening ceremonies, where the teams march under their national flags, to the unofficial but much-discussed national medal counts. Almost everyone expects the United States to dominate the medal hunt -- with 111 medals, including 38 gold, according to Sports Illustrated, or 119 medals and 50 gold, according to USA Today. Both reached their judgments the old-fashioned way, by analyzing strengths of individual competitors. The United States Olympic Committee has set 100 medals as its goal, a target presumably put low enough to allow for unexpected setbacks.
 There is another, more humbling way to look at the medal counts, an approach that ignores sports statistics and looks instead at the size and wealth of a nation as key predictors of how many medals it will win. A Dartmouth professor's model factors in population and resources and then adds in past performance in the Olympics and an extra bonus for being the host country. Its creators claim 96 percent accuracy in predicting medal counts for the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, including perfect accuracy in forecasting that the United States would win 97 medals, 39 of them gold. For this year's Olympics, the model predicts a slight falloff for the United States, to 93 medals and 37 gold. 
 If the size-wealth model really works, the fairest way to judge national winners would be to figure out how well a country's athletes performed in light of that nation's resources. By that yardstick, Japan, with a huge economy, and India, with a huge population, would look like perennial underachievers, while sports-crazy Australia and Cuba might well claim to be the real Olympic medal champions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SOCCER (78%); GYMNASTICS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%) Olympic Games; Editorials; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (72%) UNITED STATES (96%) Australia; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



305 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Africa's Health-Care Brain Drain

 BODY:
As Africa tries to fight AIDS, the single most serious obstacle is a desperate shortage of health workers. Yet at the same time, doctors, nurses and pharmacists in English-speaking African countries are emigrating in droves to Britain, the United States, Canada and Australia. In Ghana and Zimbabwe, three-quarters of all doctors emigrate within a few years of completing medical school. Randall Tobias, President Bush's global AIDS coordinator, said in a recent speech that there were more Ethiopian-trained doctors practicing in Chicago than in Ethiopia. 
 The problem isn't new, particularly when it comes to African doctors, but as Celia Dugger wrote recently in The Times, the flight of nurses is a growing phenomenon, fueled principally by the nursing shortages in wealthy nations. Instead of paying salaries that would attract homegrown nurses, American hospitals recruit in the Caribbean, the Philippines, India and Africa. The same is true in Britain. From 1994 to 2001, the number of nurses registering to work in Britain who came from outside Europe grew to 15,000 from 2,000. 
 The group Physicians for Human Rights recently published a detailed report about this problem and its consequences. One is that the world's poorest countries are providing enormous quantities of medical aid to the richest. The United Nations estimates that every time Malawi educates a doctor who practices in Britain, it saves Britain $184,000. 
 It's understandable why overseas work is attractive. AIDS and tuberculosis have stretched African health services to the breaking point, placing impossible demands on nurses in particular. They do their jobs without adequate equipment or drugs. Their paychecks sometimes arrive months late. They risk infection -- in some places, even gloves are scarce. While rich countries average 222 doctors per 100,000 people, Uganda has fewer than 6. Malawi has 17 nurses for every 100,000 citizens; many rich countries have more than 1,000.
 This is a problem with no easy solutions. One of the worst ideas would be any sort of restrictions on emigration, which would not only be discriminatory, but also counterproductive. Africans would be even less likely to choose careers in medicine. Nevertheless, it's unseemly for wealthy countries, which could afford to pay nurses enough to create an ample homegrown supply, to run ads instead to recruit skilled staff in places like South Africa. In 2001, the British National Health Service swore off recruiting nurses from countries without their governments' agreement, but private hospitals and nursing homes still do it. 
 African doctors and nurses understand how much they are needed at home, and many would resist relocation if the conditions under which they work were more bearable. The obvious long-term solution to the medical brain drain is for wealthier countries to reimburse Africa's health and educational systems for the cost of poaching their professionals, and to greatly increase the financing and technical help for Africa's health systems -- in their entirety, not just the clinics that deal with AIDS.
 The concern over AIDS, paradoxically, has created an opportunity by focusing world attention on Africa's miserable health care. Improving it would cost very little money, relatively speaking, and end the exodus of doctors and nurses that is exacerbating the epidemic's devastation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (92%); AIDS & HIV (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); PHARMACIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (74%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); BUDGETS (60%) Medicine and Health; Editorials; Doctors ; Nursing and Nurses; Foreign Aid ; Medicine and Health; Drugstores; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); PHYSICIANS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (55%) United Nations

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALAWI (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); GHANA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); INDIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UGANDA (79%) Africa; Great Britain; Canada; Australia; Malawi

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



306 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE TERRORISTS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Officials Investigate a Qaeda Suspect's Shadowy Life

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER; Heather Timmons contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Abu Issa al-Hindi, the operative of Al Qaeda who American officials say is one of 13 men arrested in raids last week in England, has lived a life of subterfuge and survival.
 As an Islamic fighter in the 1990's he took part in a guerrilla campaign against the Indian Army in the rugged and perilous terrain of Kashmir. As an instructor in the Qaeda terrorist indoctrination camps of Afghanistan, he passed on his martial skills to the next generation of volunteers. And as a reconnaissance agent who slipped in and out of the United States in 2000 and 2001, he helped build an archive on the vulnerability of American financial centers on behalf of the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Much of his history as a reputed Qaeda leader in Britain remains shrouded, but fragments of Mr. Hindi's life as a young man born into a Hindu household in Britain can be pieced together from his own writings, from descriptions attributed to acquaintances and to evidence gathered by the Sept. 11 commission in the United States. 
 Although British officials refuse to confirm the identities of any of the men they arrested last week, citing concerns about prejudicial publicity before they have been charged, American officials say that Mr. Hindi is among the suspects being held at Paddington Green, the high security police station in West London. 
 No photograph has been released of Mr. Hindi, said to be in his mid-30's and about 5 feet 5 inches tall. Not much is known about his parents, presumably immigrants to Britain like millions of other South Asians who came here in the last century to escape political turmoil or improve their circumstances. They have not emerged to speak about their son. 
 According to some reports, Mr. Hindi was one of the young militants who prayed during the 1990's at the Finsbury Park Mosque, which was under the control of Abu Hamza al-Masri, an Egyptian-born extremist who was arrested last month on an extradition warrant from the United States. He is sought there in connection with the 1998 kidnapping of tourists, including two Americans, in Yemen. 
 Mr. Hindi is said to have converted to the Islamic faith at 20 and shortly thereafter, in the early 1990's, went off to fight for the cause of Muslims who opposed Indian rule in divided Kashmir. It was Mr. Hindi's memoir of those years with the mujahedeen, ''The Army of Medinah in Kashmir,'' published by a small Islamic news agency in Birmingham, that first brought him some notice in England's small but growing community of Islamic militants. It may have also attracted the attention of Britain's domestic spy agency, MI5. 
 ''Per chance Muslims are frightened to advance and take the initiative,'' he wrote, ''afraid of being branded as terrorists or deviants, by the people who engineered human destruction themselves -- the enemies of Islam.''
 Mr. Hindi refers to the United States, Britain, France and other Western nations as the great ''interfering'' nations, and he admonishes his followers that ''great stealth is required'' to ''attempt to bring one of these interfering nations to its knees.'' 
 One way of doing so is infiltration from within by people like himself, he said. 
 ''The indigenous believers that reside in these meddling countries'' can be a critical factor because they ''understand the language, culture, area and common practices of the enemy whom they coexist amongst.''
 For British officials, Mr. Hindi's extremism and alienation from British society is an alarming feature within the broader disaffection that British and other European governments now observe among the offspring of South Asian immigrants and immigrants from other Muslim societies. These young European Muslims grow up on soccer, pop music and cricket, but many who come of age feel the strong pull of fundamentalist clerics who preach the glories of struggle against Western conventions and of the ecstasy of martyrdom.
 A major alarm sounded this year when a some young Britons of Pakistani origin were arrested in late March after the police detected their acquisition of a half ton of ammonium nitrate fertilizer, a key ingredient for bomb-making. Police officials say the group was in contact with a Canadian man, also of Pakistani origin, who was teaching them how to make a detonator for a bomb. A criminal case against the group is now pending.
 Mr. Hindi started his career as a holy warrior much earlier and joined the ranks of Al Qaeda before returning home, American officials say. 
 In his memoir from Kashmir, he described the grueling treks with a band of mujahedeen through treacherous mountain terrain and in guerrilla combat against Indian Army forces deployed in camps along the Line of Control in Kashmir. 
 In one passage, he sings the praises of a fellow fighter, who battled hand-to-hand with an Indian soldier until the mujahedeen ''fired a round into the head of the army man'' and ''with his victory complete, beheaded him.''
 As a unseasoned Islamic fighter, Mr. Hindi described how he discovered the rules of warfare the hard way. Marching through exposed valleys subjected the fighters to attack from the surrounding heights. Being trapped by enemy fire raining down from above ''is highly perilous,'' he said, ''and should be avoided at all costs.''
 A preferable mode of operation, he explained, is ''to try and gain the upper hand by being situated over and above the enemy.''
 Using light weapons, including rocket-propelled grenades sometimes filled with chili powder or gasoline to enhance their effect (chili powder creates a ''tear gas'' effect, he wrote; gasoline adds a ''fireball''), the Islamic fighters were little more than a harassing force in the region, Mr. Hindi said.
 He said 85 percent of one mujahedeen faction was wiped out during three years of fighting. He scorned Pakistan's intelligence services , which he said were only too willing to send young Islamic fighters against the Indian Army as a way of ''killing two birds with one stone.''
 After his experiences in Kashmir and the training camps of Afghanistan, Mr. Hindi returned to London. A jacket note from his memoir says he ''now resides in South Thailand, where he emigrated to in 1998, having married there.'' But the biographical material also says that at some point he returned to Afghanistan. 
 That is where American officials believe he came into contact with Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who was engaged in planning the Sept. 11 attacks.
 But the World Trade Center was not the target Mr. Mohammed was studying, according to the Sept. 11 commission.
 ''He continued to consider other possibilities for terrorist attacks,'' the report states. ''For example, he sent Qaeda operative Eisa al-Britani to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to learn about the jihad in Southeast Asia.'' (Eisa al-Britani is an alias for Mr. Hindi, American officials say)
 At the direction of Osama bin Laden in early 2001, Mr. Hindi was dispatched to the United States ''to case potential economic and 'Jewish' targets in New York City.'' 
 In July, the Pakistani authorities arrested a young computer specialist, Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan. In his possession was a cache of computer disks containing a huge archive of detailed information about the vulnerabilities of America financial centers in New York, New Jersey and Washington. 
 A senior Western official in London said the question that American and British intelligence officials are trying to answer is whether Mr. Hindi's reconnaissance missions of 2001 ended or were handed off to other Qaeda operatives who have yet to be discovered.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An image taken Aug. 3 by a local resident using a cellphone shows antiterror arrests taking place in Blackburn in northern England. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); MEN (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARRESTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); ESPIONAGE (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ARMIES (72%); EXTRADITION (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%) Terrorism; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Patrick E Tyler; Abu Issa Al- Hindi

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) KASHMIR (94%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDIA (90%); YEMEN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (57%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



307 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: New York Unplugged, 1889

BYLINE: By Jill Jonnes. 
Jill Jonnes is the author of ''Empires of Lights: Edison, Tesla, Westinghouse and the Race to Electrify the World.''

 BODY:
Last year's blackout -- when we were rudely reminded that electricity is the lifeblood of our civilization -- still holds the dubious honor as America's biggest blackout. The nation's first struck Manhattan on Oct. 14, 1889, when New Yorkers stepped out into a bleak, rainy dusk to find what was called ''A Night of Darkness -- More than One Thousand Electric Lights Extinguished.'' 
 These days we take electricity completely for granted as a commonplace necessity. But 115 years ago, electricity was very much an exotic, glamorous neophyte technology battling to replace the ubiquitous gas lighting. Throughout the 1880's, Gotham had been gradually electrifying, and the citizenry proudly gloried in the dazzling blaze of the electric arc lights in stores, theaters, and high above the main streets and avenues on tall street poles. 
 On that wet October eve in 1889, the city had been suddenly reduced to ''endless tunnels of gloom.'' The Brush and United States Lighting companies had gone dark -- not, however, from a power failure, but under orders from an outraged mayor.
 Then, as now, the crux of the electrical problem was transmission. In Gilded Age Gotham, the vast spider webs of electrical wires above the city streets were transmitting not just electricity, but sudden, terrifying death. Major streets and avenues and many stores were illuminated by arc lights -- a crude but powerful form of electric lighting using blazing carbon rods -- powered by high-voltage alternating current transmitted on poorly maintained wires. 
 The result was a series of high-profile electrocutions of citizens and electrical workers. Three days before the blackout, a Western Union lineman was electrocuted as he worked high above huge lunchtime crowds near the Tweed Courthouse. Suspended like a poor fly in the tangled electrical wires, ''the man appeared to be all on fire. Blue flames issued from his mouth and nostrils and sparks flew about his feet,'' The New York Times reported. ''There was no movement to the body as it hung in the fatal burning embrace of the wires.'' Mayor Hugh Grant angrily ordered all high-voltage alternating current electric arc lights shut off. The electric companies were told to remove, repair and upgrade the jungle of overhead wires, a deadly melange of telegraph, telephone, burglar alarm and electric light wires. 
 Thomas Edison, the nation's great electrical wizard, saw the city's (and the nation's) first major blackout as yet another opportunity to further attack his hated rivals in the electricity business. Edison's seven-year-old Pearl Street Station transmitted safe low-voltage direct current for indoor incandescent lighting. But it had a huge drawback. Direct current could not deliver electricity more than a half-mile away. Only high-voltage alternating current could transmit electricity any distance, making it a far more flexible and superior technology.
 As the nascent industry struggled with transmission and safety, Edison bitterly denounced alternating current as the ''executioner's current,'' good only for a new and modern form of capital punishment -- the electric chair. 
 In those pioneer days of electricity, before our sprawling and ultracomplex grids, the debate over transmission was a matter of life and death not just for electrical workers, but for electric companies themselves. 
 Edison, creator of the first electric grid, had been happily and profitably building a worldwide empire of little direct-current generating stations when the Pittsburgh industrialist George Westinghouse entered the electrical fray in 1886. Armed with the alternating-current patents of the brilliant and eccentric inventor Nikola Tesla, Westinghouse outflanked the Edison companies from Boston to New Orleans to Portland, Ore., and in between. This corporate feud, called the War of the Electric Currents, was so vicious that Edison pushed for an electric chair operated with Westinghouse alternating current generators, a lethal demise his delighted executives dubbed ''being Westinghoused.'' 
 Such morbid tactics aside, the basic question for the electrical industry, then as now, was transmission. Who could send this invisible and powerful energy most safely, reliably and economically? In the late 19th century, the challenge was getting completely new kinds of grids up and working; today it is expanding, upgrading and managing the existing technology. Both demand foresight and planning, qualities often as scarce now as then. 
 When it came to assigning blame for the first blackout in 1889, it was easy. All of New York City's electrical wires were supposed to be buried safely under the streets. But the three Tammany appointees to the city's four-year-old Board of Electrical Control had been greedily awarding lucrative contracts to friends and relations who failed to actually do the work of burying the wires. The arc-lighting companies begged to be allowed to do the job, but as one Times headline explained, the dilatory board was ''Not on the Public's Side.'' The imbroglio quickly landed in the courts. (Some things never change.)
 Faced with ''darkness and gloom everywhere,'' 19th-century New Yorkers also prided themselves on taking calamity in stride, responding with pluck and resilience. ''Everyone accepted the situation with commendable good nature,'' reported The Times, even as it lamented how ''decidedly provincial'' normally cosmopolitan Manhattan looked without its ''many glittering electric lights.''
 Then, as they did last August, the Police Department beefed up patrols in the suddenly darkened streets to deter thugs and thieves. Those forward-looking businesses that had opted for the ''modern convenience'' of arc lights (as opposed to old-fashioned gaslight) unhappily coped as best they could. A theater rigged up a calcium reflector out front. A big department store strikingly arrayed its windows with oil lamps in lovely Japanese lanterns. But on those bleak and rainy fall days, the big dry goods houses found it hard to properly display and sell their cloth and wares without the blaze of lights.
 Eventually, the arc lights were turned back on. But Thomas Edison lost the War of the Electric Currents as George Westinghouse triumphantly used his nascent alternating-current system first to electrify the Chicago World's Fair of 1893, the luminous and chimerical White City, and then to create the first hydroelectric plant, at Niagara Falls. There in 1896, electricity was transmitted an amazing 26 miles to Buffalo. The need to send electricity long distances enshrined alternating current as the basis of our own vast electrical grid. Last August's startling images of hordes of New Yorkers coursing homeward through a city stopped dead as stranded visitors slept on sidewalks in the torpid heat were striking reminders of the civilizing necessity of electricity. And of the fragility of the miracle of moving electrons.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Freda) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); CITIES (73%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (69%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (53%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%)

PERSON: Jill Jonnes; Thomas A (1847-1931) Edison

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



308 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3385 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. *denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

''ANCHORMAN,'' starring Will Ferrell and Christina Applegate. Directed by Adam Mc- Kay (PG-13, 91 minutes). Neither as crazy as ''Old School'' nor as charming as ''Elf,'' this extended comedy sketch (directed by a former ''Saturday Night Live'' head writer) will nonetheless satisfy, for now, the national hunger for Mr. Ferrell's special brand of goofiness. This time he plays Ron Burgundy, a San Diego newsman whose supremacy is threatened by the arrival of a woman (Ms. Applegate) who becomes his rival, his love interest and, of course, his straight man. The movie's ideas are none too fresh -- the crazy sideburns and ugly neckties of the 1970's will yield only so much hilarity -- but there is a reasonably high quotient of funny jokes and off-thewall, nutty gags, including a street fight among rival news teams as amusing for its movie-star cameos as for its brutal slapstick (A. O. Scott)

*''BEFORE SUNSET,'' starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Directed by Richard Linklater (R, 80 minutes). Nine years after parting, in Vienna, at the end of ''Before Sunrise,'' Jesse (Mr. Hawke) and Celine (Ms. Delpy) rediscover each other in Paris and relive their brief encounter. This time it is even briefer: the film unfolds, without skipping a minute, in the hour or so before Jesse must catch a plane home to New York, and all those minutes are filled with looping, self-conscious talk as the reunited lovers wander along the Seine. Their intimacy is tinged with nostalgic regret. The airy sense of freedom that they shared in their early 20's has given way to the resignation of adulthood, even as they meander toward a second chance. The liberating sweetness of the earlier movie has mellowed into a saltier, sadder flavor, but Mr. Linklater, one of our most literate and intelligent directors, has not talked himself out of the possibility of romance, and the movie's relaxed, discursive structure is dense with implied feeling and oblique drama (Scott)

*''THE BOURNE SUPREMACY,'' starring Matt Damon, Franka Potente, Brian Cox and Julia Stiles. Directed by Paul Greengrass (PG-13; 120 minutes). It may sound odd to call a chilly, paranoid thriller entertainment comfort food. But in the wake of 9/11 this globe-trotting post-cold-war melodrama full of standard cloak-and-dagger intrigue has the reassuring aroma of a home-cooked meal. There are no jihads or terrorists in sight and no apocalyptic scenarios, only dirty little secrets, as spies and counterspies from Russia and the United States tangle in a grubby story involving oil, sold secrets, murders and coverups. In this sequel to ''The Bourne Identity,'' many of the major hands who created the first film have returned, including Mr. Damon as Jason Bourne, the C.I.A.-trained assassin who still has serious memory problems and can't recall why he is being hunted by everybody, although blurry flashbacks leave him with clues. As before, he spends almost the entire movie on the run. The thriller reminds you that rhythms of film editing and collage-making have allowed Hollywood to make the chase movie a surefire format. Plot and character ultimately don't matter much in a film that's all about building and sustaining a mood in which visceral and emotional rhythms are blended into a high-gloss thrill ride (Stephen Holden).

''CATWOMAN,'' starring Halle Berry, Benjamin Bratt and Sharon Stone. Directed by Pitof (PG-13, 110 minutes). Ms. Berry, doing her utmost to persuade the Academy to take back her Oscar, plays Patience, a flighty would-be artist who is bumped off after she uncovers the nefarious corporate secrets of a cosmetics company. Brought to life by feline mouth-tomouth, she acquires interesting cat powers and cat behaviors, and begins eating tuna straight out of the can, stealing jewels and carrying a whip. Mr. Bratt is the upright, studly cop who serves as her obligatory love interest, and Ms. Stone is her icy rival. There is a diverting element of campy, kinky sexuality in this mess, and lots of bright colors and stroboscopic editing effects. In the end, though, you might find yourself thinking back fondly on ''Garfield'' (Scott).

''A CINDERELLA STORY,'' starring Hilary Duff. Directed by Mark Rosman (PG, 97 minutes). If adolescent rebellion were channeled toward a useful cause, the tweener audience for ''A Cinderella Story'' and for the recent ''Sleepover'' would march en masse to Hollywood to protest the cynicism, sloppiness and condescension of the toxic fantasies being hurled at them. Set in the San Fernando Valley, ''A Cinderella Story'' strains to bend the classic fairy tale to accommodate another coarse high school comedy of air-headed teenage vixens ganging up on a meek little angel. Samantha (the talent-challenged Ms. Duff), or ''Diner Girl,'' as she's jeeringly labeled, is a pariah because she drives a battered old car and toils like a slave in her evil stepmother's hideous pink-painted diner. That stepmother (Jennifer Coolidge), who suggests a nightmarish hybrid of Zsa Zsa Gabor and Tammy Faye Bakker, is a greasy-looking sexpot manqu. The resident Prince Charming (Chad Michael Murray) is the courtly captain of the football team and student council president, as well as a closet poet. Even for a fairy tale, ''A Cinderella Story'' fails to make sense (Holden)

*''COLLATERAL,'' starring Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 115 minutes). In ''Collateral,'' the edgy new thriller from Mr. Mann, the city never sleeps; it doesn't even relax. Set in Los Angeles mostly after dark, after the city's sunshine has given way to cool noir, the story centers on a taxi driver, Max (Mr. Foxx), and the assassin, Vincent (Mr. Cruise), who hops a ride with him deep into the night. Pitched between interludes of anxious intimacy and equally nerve-shredding set pieces, ''Collateral'' scores its points with underhand precision. The film is about a lot of different things, about how Los Angeles lights up even at night, how cars become prostheses of ourselves and how driving with the radio on can be bliss. But as with all of Mr. Mann's movies, ''Collateral'' is finally about men and work, and about how being a man is itself a kind of job, which explains why this fastidiously made commercial film isn't just an entertainment, but a statement of personal faith (Manohla Dargis).

''DE-LOVELY,'' starring Kevin Kline and Ashley Judd. Directed by Irwin Winkler (PG-13, 125 minutes). Unfolding as a bumpy, muddled ''This Is Your Life'' series of confusing, overcrowded tableaus, the new Cole Porter biography gives you the creepy sense of watching adult children (with the singular exception of Mr. Kline, who can surmount any disaster) dressed up in period costume at a school pageant. Although its publicity goes out of its way to pat the movie on the back for its supposed candor about Porter's homosexuality, the film's attitude toward sex is dainty. The heat in a film about the man who wrote ''Too Darn Hot'' remains a steady, air-conditioned 68 degrees. It can't imagine a wealthy, sophisticated couple marrying for friendship and social advantage without that arrangement involving torment and guilt over its lack of sex. Some two dozen Porter songs are glossed by contemporary singers like Elvis Costello (''Let's Misbehave''), Sheryl Crow (''Begin the Beguine'') and Diana Krall (''Just One of Those Things''). If they're not awful, these labored interpretations are undercut by flimsy period arrangements (Holden)

*''THE DOOR IN THE FLOOR,'' starring Jeff Bridges, Kim Basinger and Jon Foster. Written and directed by Tod Williams (R, 111 minutes). Avoiding the traps of sentimentality and overdone whimsy that lie in wait for adaptors of John Irving's fiction, Mr. Williams has made a version of ''A Widow for One Year'' that is better than the book. Mr. Foster plays Eddie, a prep school student who spends a long, eventful summer working as an assistant to Ted Cole (Mr. Bridges), a famous writer and illustrator of children's books. Ted and his wife, Marion (Ms. Basinger), are still grieving over the loss of their two sons in a car accident years before, and their marriage is falling apart. All of this might have made maudlin, precious melodrama -- especially when Eddie and Marion begin their affair -- but rather than emphasize the plot, Mr. Williams makes it a relaxed, roomy landscape for the characters to roam around in. The cast rises above the occasional implausibility of the material, and the movie is funny, touching and understated. It is dominated by Mr. Bridges's performance, one of the finest pieces of screen acting by an American man so far this year, a heroically life-size portrait of wounded narcissism and masculine need (Scott)

*''GARDEN STATE,'' starring Zach Braff, Natalie Portman and Peter Sarsgaard. Written and directed by Mr. Braff (R, 102 minutes). This small, smart, off-kilter comedy has the cheek to present itself as ''The Graduate 2004,'' although its affectionate subversion of a popular classic also stamps it as ''The Anti-Graduate 2004.'' From its story of the waking up of an emotionally numbed young man (Mr. Braff) to its editorial use of a contemporary pop soundtrack, the movie obsessively refers to that 1967 generational landmark. The New Jersey suburban landscape to which Andrew, Mr. Braff's 26-year-old alter ego, returns from self-imposed exile in Los Angeles is a universe apart from the lotus land where he has lived for the last nine years in a chemical stupor. Because ''The Graduate'' established the stock vision of suburban alienation that has persisted through ''American Beauty'' and beyond, you expect ''Garden State'' to uphold the clich. Instead, it allows Andrew to discover some nuggets of spiritual gold in the East Coast wasteland he dreaded revisiting. As precocious filmmaking debuts tend to be, ''Garden State'' is too self-conscious by half, but its struggle to revitalize a clich by turning it inside out is a worthy one (Holden).

''HAROLD AND KUMAR GO TO WHITE CASTLE,'' starring John Cho and Kal Penn. Directed by Danny Leiner (R, 87 minutes). This stoner, gross-out comedy has one foot here and one foot there. The here is a politically savvy universe where the title characters, 22- year-old New Jersey roommates who are Asian-American (Mr. Cho) and Indian-American (Mr. Penn), puncture ethnic stereotypes. The other foot is rutted knee-deep in the muck of perpetual puerility according to Hollywood. The movie is a sub-sub-''After Hours'' odyssey in which the title characters, while stoned on a Friday night, catch a galloping case of the munchies from a television advertisement for White Castle burgers and embark on an all-night search through the wilds of New Jersey for the nearest outlet. Along the way the pair are menaced by a gang of extreme sports punks, a rabid raccoon and a computer-generated cougar they use as a getaway horse. Surviving one mishap after another, the pair finally arrive by hang-glider at their junk food shrine. The chemistry between the two is as old as Abbott and Costello (Holden).

''I, ROBOT,'' starring Will Smith and Bridget Moynahan. Directed by Alex Proyas (PG-13, 110 minutes). Once again machines are threatening to take over the world, and once again they have developed feelings, which poses the usual conundrums of sci-fi philosophy. ''Suggested by'' Isaac Asimov's classic book of short stories, this sleek, hectic thriller engages some interesting ideas on its way to an overblown and incoherent ending. Mr. Smith, in weary action-movie mode, plays Del Spooner, a homicide detective in 2035 Chicago investigating the death of an old friend. Spooner is a confirmed robot-hater, and as he confronts his bigotry the movie develops a clever, if obvious, racial subtext. With the help of Susan Calvin (Ms. Moynahan), a concerned scientist, and a soulful machine named Sonny, Spooner contends with an apparent corporate conspiracy aimed at usurping human control of everything. ''You're the dumbest smart person I've ever met,'' Spooner says to Dr. Calvin at one point, and for a dumb movie, ''I, Robot'' turns out to be pretty smart (Scott).

''LITTLE BLACK BOOK,'' starring Brittany Murphy and Holly Hunter. Directed by Nick Hurran (PG-13, 97 minutes). With Ms. Murphy starring as an ambitious associate producer of a trashy television talk show, this movie aspires to be a dewy-eyed self-help fable for ambitious young women folded into a mean-spirited satire of Jerry Springer-style reality programming. Offering few laughs and a climactic scene of breathtaking cruelty, the plot-heavy film draws you against your will into its malignant force field. Almost from the beginning, its sugary and rancid strains work against each other. To put it another way, ''Little Black Book'' would like to be a wised-up but still starry-eyed ''Working Girl'' and a more acerbic ''Broadcast News.'' In trying to be both things at once, it can't hold a candle to either forerunner. Batting her large, vacant eyes and sucking her lower lip into a pout, Ms. Murphy suggests a dumbeddown Meg Ryan with a gloss of Melanie Griffith (Holden)

*''THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE,'' starring Denzel Washington, Meryl Streep and Liev Schreiber. Directed by Jonathan Demme (R, 130 minutes). Mr. Demme, updating John Frankenheimer's classic exercise in cold war liberal paranoia, wisely treats the original as a touchstone rather than a template, and his movie, in spite of some narrative flaws, stands on its own as a witty, anxious thriller for a new age of political uncertainty. Mr. Washington plays Ben Marco, a Gulf War veteran haunted by nightmares who tries at once to hold onto his sanity and unravel a conspiracy that reaches the highest levels of corporate and political power. Mr. Schreiber is a young congressman propelled toward the vice presidency by his monstrous mother, played with ice-chomping glee by Ms. Streep. The convolutions of the story are less important than the vigor of the performances, and the movie wears its attenuated political relevance lightly. Which may be a good thing, since this ''Candidate'' is, in the end, a breathless and intricate thriller about the continuing need for campaign finance reform (Scott)

*''MARIA FULL OF GRACE,'' starring Catalina Sandino Moreno and Yenny Paola Vega. Written and directed by Joshua Marston (R, 101 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). It's painfully understandable why the 17-year-old title character of this gripping Colombian film would risk her freedom and even her life to be a drug mule. The movie follows the desperate plunge of Maria (Ms. Sandino) from a dead-end job as an assembly-line worker in a Colombian flower factory into the drug-smuggling underworld. Her dangerous undertaking is her last resort when she finds herself unemployed and pregnant. Before the story zeroes in on the harrowing details of drug running and its dangers, it details Maria's hopelessly circumscribed life in a rural village. If her story is a template for countless others like it, what keeps your heart in your throat is Maria herself. In a performance that feels more lived in than acted, Ms. Sandino's Maria is an attractive, smart, spirited young woman who faces the challenge of fending for herself with a fierce determination and ingenuity that compromise but never undermine her essential decency and morality. The movie sustains a documentary authenticity that is as astonishing as it is off-handed. Even while keeping you on the edge of your seat, it never sacrifices a calm, clear-sighted humanity for the sake of melodrama or cheap moralizing (Holden)

*''METALLICA: SOME KIND OF MONSTER,'' directed by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky (not rated, 139 minutes). Mr. Berlinger and Mr. Sinofsky, who began filming the mighty heavy-metal band Metallica in early 2001, turn what might have been a conventional behind- the-scenes rockumentary into a riveting, intricate pyschodrama. After nearly 20 years together, Metallica was in something of a funk, and the band members hired Phil Towle, a therapist, to help them through their artistic and interpersonal struggles. At its core, ''Some Kind of Monster'' is the portrait of a marriage: the angry, sustaining partnership between James Hetfield, the lead singer, and Lars Ulrich, the drummer, who founded the band as teenagers and must figure out how to keep it going now that they're in their 40's (Scott).

''OPEN WATER,'' starring Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis. Written and directed by Chris Kentis (R, 79 minutes). In this minimalist, digital video thriller, a tourist couple spend their vacation trying not to be eaten by sharks. ''I wanted to go skiing,'' complains Susan (Ms. Ryan), and you can hardly blame her. She and Daniel (Mr. Travis), her boyfriend, out for a morning of scuba diving, have been left behind by the charter boat, and they bob up and down, fighting panic, exhaustion and each other in a desperate struggle to survive. The film, simply and efficiently shot without special effects or well-known actors, evokes some deep and primal fears, but it is ultimately too small, too under-dramatized, to provoke anything more intense than squirming discomfort. Susan and Daniel are so bland that they could be anybody, which is the problem, and your sympathy for them is fleeting, as if you had encountered them in a short, grisly item on the local evening news (Scott).

''SHE HATE ME,'' starring Anthony Mackie and Kerry Washington. Directed by Spike Lee (R, 138 minutes). In his flailingly angry new comedy, Mr. Lee carries his political exasperation beyond outrage into chaos. The carelessness with which the director hurls his feelings about hot-button topics onto the screen is the filmmaking equivalent of last-ditch marketing: grab everything in sight, roll it up into a big, messy mud ball and hurl it against the wall, hoping that something sticks. Lashing out in all directions, the director addresses white-collar crime, the Bush administration, AIDS in Africa, the Mafia, Watergate, sex and reproduction, lesbianism and the meaning of family in a disoriented rant that lurches from one subject to the next with little to tie it together. A sex farce one minute, a crude political skit the next, an imitation ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'' harangue the next, ''She Hate Me'' can't maintain its focus long enough to say anything fresh. The boilerplate polemics mouthed by stick-figure characters sound like the beery 3 a.m. debates of a college bull session (Holden)

*''STANDER,'' starring Tom Jane. Directed by Bronwen Hughes (R, 111 minutes). In its first half-hour, ''Stander,'' which tells the true story of Andre Stander (Mr. Jane), the Johannesburg police chief who in 1976 turned against an apartheid system he found repugnant and became a notorious serial bank robber, plays like a smoothly executed if predictable drama of one man's heroic rebellion. Just when you begin to relax and wait for the usual buttons to be pushed, it swerves in more uncertain direction and becomes an unsettling character study of a man self-destructively addicted to flouting authority that is camouflaged as a heist movie. The further the volatile title character evolves into a swaggering self-styled Robin Hood, the more his luster begins to tarnish. Much of the film's considerable power lies in Mr. Jane's raw physical dynamism (Holden).

''THE VILLAGE,'' starring Bryce Dallas Howard, Joaquin Phoenix and Adrien Brody. Written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan (PG- 13, 120 minutes). Mr. Shyamalan remains our leading cinematic rug-puller, but the carpet grows ever more threadbare. This time, he populates a preindustrial Pennsylvania village with an impressive cast of elders and youngsters, who almost never use contractions and who live in fear of some scary creatures in the surrounding woods. As ever, Mr. Shyamalan uses the classic techniques of movie suspense (and James Newton Howard's sinister score) to conjure an atmosphere of mystery and dread, which vanishes even before the big plot twist sends the picture spinning into silly, pretentious allegory. Don't worry, I won't spoil the surprise. It spoils itself (Scott).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Cruise, left, is a contract killer who climbs into a cab driven by Jamie Foxx in ''Collateral.'' (Photo by Frank Connor/DreamWorks and Paramount Pictures)
 Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis, stranded in a shark-filled sea in the thriller ''Open Water.'' (Photo by Laura Lau/Lions Gate Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MATT DAMON (58%); TOM CRUISE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



309 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASKETBALL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: It's Official: Nets Sign Mercer For 2 Years

BYLINE: By STEVE POPPER

 BODY:
Less than six months ago, Ron Mercer hit a low point. He was released by the San Antonio Spurs. His ankles were aching. A few calls from other N.B.A. teams came, but he decided to sit out the last two months of the season. 
 The time away from the game allowed him to think about where his career had gone, about how a player who had been a first-team all-American at Kentucky and the No. 6 pick in the 1997 draft had come to this. He was unemployed, and his last job, as a reserve for the Spurs, had not amounted to much. 
 In a move made official yesterday, Mercer, 28, signed with the Nets for two years at the bargain price of $3.3 million. 
 ''I'm definitely glad to have this opportunity to come here and play hard and do the things this team needs me to do,'' Mercer said in a conference call yesterday. ''I'm a guy who comes in with a chip on his shoulder at this particular time. I'm ready to start immediately, ready to play right now.''
 The 6-foot-7 Mercer did not receive much playing time the last couple of seasons, but he said he would have a great opportunity to play a lot of minutes with the Nets.
 Minutes are one thing the Nets can offer after dealing away Kenyon Martin, their All-Star power forward, and Kerry Kittles, their starting shooting guard, in cost-cutting moves. Eric Williams, a power forward, was signed last week.
 Mercer will be joining his seventh team for his eighth N.B.A. season. He is expected to compete with Lucious Harris as the starter at shooting guard. 
 Nets Coach Lawrence Frank recruited Mercer out of high school for the University of Tennessee but lost out to Kentucky. The two men have maintained a relationship over the years. They met before Mercer decided to pick the Nets over five other suitors.
 Although his career numbers (13.9 points, 3.1 rebounds and 2.2 assists a game) are not far from Kittles's (14.3, 3.9, 2.6), Mercer's production has tailed off since a career-high 19.7 points a game in 2000-1 with Chicago. His scoring dipped to 13.9 in 2001-2, 7.7 in 2002-3 and a career-low 5.0 last season in 39 games with the Spurs.
 Mercer made only three starts in the last two seasons, but he shrugged off any notion of rust and said that Frank had told him he had the opportunity to play.
 ''I just have to come in and play,'' Mercer said. ''I don't have to replace anybody or be anybody. I just have to do what I do.''




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%) Basketball

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%) New Jersey Nets

PERSON: Steve Popper; Ron Mercer

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



310 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 913 words

PERSON: Simone Levine

HEADLINE: Protecting the Right Not to Remain Silent

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
SIMONE LEVINE looks so serious in the shabby, low-ceilinged offices of the National Lawyers Guild in Midtown Manhattan. And why wouldn't she? Ms. Levine is a lead organizer of the guild's campaign to protect the rights of protesters during the Republican National Convention later this month.
 She has plenty on her mind. Officials warn there could be as many as 1,000 convention-related arrests a day. And protesters are pushing to hold a large demonstration in Central Park, despite opposition from the city, which wants them to rally along the West Side Highway. Just imagine Aug. 29, the day before the convention, and the specter of 250,000 people marching past Madison Square Garden, the convention site, with no set destination. 
 ''It's a lot of stress,'' says Ms. Levine, who is 29 and has a day job as a criminal defense lawyer for the financially challenged Legal Aid Society in Manhattan. She juggles 115 cases of indigent defendants. At the guild, she volunteers her time as an organizer of its Mass Defense Committee in New York. The other afternoon, just in from court, she looked tired as she sat at a conference table. She took out a legal pad to jot notes, still in cautious lawyer mode.
 ''Whenever you talk about 1,000 arrests going through the system, you can only imagine trying to get that number of attorneys to represent these people,'' she said. ''It takes a huge amount of energy to plan effectively, so demonstrators won't have their rights trampled.''
 Ms. Levine, a slender woman with long, wavy hair and an intense, wary gaze, has increasingly become a public face of the guild, a left-leaning group that was founded in 1937 as an alternative to the American Bar Association's political conservatism and its policy at the time of excluding blacks. It has 6,000 members nationwide.
 For the last year, Ms. Levine has been immersed in planning the logistics of sending out troops of lawyers and legal observers during the convention. She has testified three times at public forums in City Hall, denouncing police tactics at large demonstrations like the one in February 2003 against the war in Iraq. She also represented protesters during the World Economic Forum in Manhattan in 2002.
 So what about the persistent buzz among protesters that, for the first time in recent years, some demonstrators may have to pay a nominal fee to be represented after arrests? Ms. Levine confirms that this may happen, but says fewer than 10 percent of lawyers are likely to charge clients, and only because they, too, have bills to pay. So far, 120 lawyers have volunteered their services.
 Is the guild concerned about taking heat for the plan of some lawyers to charge? ''The majority of attorneys are still going to be not charging at all,'' she says firmly. ''We're not worried about being criticized. We're attorneys. We're used to being criticized.''
 During the convention, Ms. Levine says, the guild will represent demonstrators wherever sporadic protests and arrests happen.
 The guild has monitored the interaction between the police and protesters since the 1968 antiwar protests at Columbia University. 
 Ms. Levine picks up a bright-green baseball cap. It is the one guild lawyers will wear as they patrol demonstrations during the convention. She says the guild will also deploy 250 trained legal observers in the hats, some with video and still cameras to document arrests and police activity.
 She will not be wearing the hat. ''That green is not my color,'' she jokes, lightening up at last. She says she instead will be dispatching lawyers to various sites from the guild office.
 She does not foresee a shortage of lawyers to represent demonstrators. She says lawyers have been galvanized by law enforcement authorities' saying there might be as many as 1,000 arrests a day. ''For police to radicalize attorneys, it's quite a feat,'' she says.
 Ms. Levine's upbringing was anything but radical. The daughter of a social worker and a consultant who helps failing businesses, she grew up in the upper-middle-class community of Ridgefield, Conn. But as a teenager, she says, she was so moved by the sharp racial and economic inequities in cities like New Haven and Bridgeport, Conn., that she became a community organizer against racism and police brutality.
 SHE studied political science at McGill University in Montreal, then headed to East Asia, where she witnessed crackdowns on student dissidents in South Korea and invasions of Burmese military troops into refugee camps along the border of Thailand and Myanmar, formerly Burma. She worked with nonprofit groups to lobby governments to change their human rights policies. Then she began to wonder why she was overseas.
 ''There was a point I felt my energy would be better directed if I started working on human rights issues in my own country,'' she says.
 Ms. Levine enrolled in the University of Connecticut School of Law, and started the guild's mass defense chapter there. 
 These days, she says, she is working from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. to prepare for the convention. But she does have a life outside work. She lives in a loft in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, with eight other roommates, writers and artists, and she has a boyfriend, another Legal Aid lawyer, whom she declines to discuss.
 It also turns out that she has a secret weapon to deal with stress. She is an amateur boxer, practicing four times a week with trainers at a gym. ''It's so that I can wake up every morning and keep fighting for my clients.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: SIMONE LEVINE (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TESTIMONY (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); RIOTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); IRAQ WAR (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Legal Aid for the Poor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD (91%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (83%) National Lawyers Guild; Legal Aid Society

Lynda Richardson; Simone Levine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) New York City

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



311 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: Remembering The Past, Celebrating The Future

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
WHEN Rod Iverson was growing up in Indianapolis, he and his cousins saw each other nearly every weekend. ''My father's father was the patriarch of the family, and he pretty much dictated that we got together,'' said Mr. Iverson, now 57 and living in Gilbert, Ariz. ''There were 13 cousins, and we spent enough time together that we were very close. But I lost touch with most of them as we grew up and went our separate ways.'' 
 And yet, last month when Mr. Iverson was host of the first-ever Iverson Cousins Reunion -- a mix of first and second cousins, plus some of their children and parents -- it appeared that the family bonds had, in fact, not been weakened by time. 
 ''There were people there I hadn't seen in 40 years, but as soon as I saw them, I recognized them,'' he said. ''The most moving moment for me was when two of my elderly aunts, one from Indianapolis and one from Phoenix, saw each other for the first time in years. I think they didn't know if they would ever see each other again, so it was very, very touching. Since the reunion, I've had lots of e-mails, thanking me, and two of the cousins in Indiana say they want to hold another reunion next year.'' 
 Across the nation, at state parks, family farms, rented lodges and fancy resorts, summer has become reunion time for millions of American families. While there are no reliable statistics on how many families have reunions each year, there are plenty of indicators that such events are proliferating and becoming increasingly elaborate affairs. And much the way that families themselves have changed over the last few decades -- becoming more culturally, ethnically, economically and geographically diverse -- so has the family reunion evolved into a very different affair from a simple afternoon picnic held in the grandparents' backyard.
 At least nine handbooks on reunion planning have been published in the last six years, varying in tone from ''A Family Affair: How to Plan and Direct the Best Family Reunion Ever'' to ''The Family Reunion Survival Guide: How to Avoid Problems With Your Family Without Avoiding Your Family.'' A 2002 poll by the Travel Industry Association of America found that one in three American adults, or nearly 72 million, had traveled to a family reunion in the last three years, and nearly a quarter had gone to a reunion in the last year.
 Web sites like www.familyreunion.com now let families register their reunions and search for when and where others with the same last name are gathering. Hotel chains and airlines see reunions as a growing market. And since Reunions Magazine made its debut 15 years ago, covering family, military and class reunions, said Edith Wagner, the founder, military reunions have dwindled, class reunions have remained stable -- and family reunions have mushroomed. 
 In many families, reunions are the linchpin of a fight against the centrifugal forces of modern life, the mobility that can suddenly scatter families that, for two generations, gathered every week for Sunday dinner. Reunions, the organizers hope, are a tool for keeping family members connected even as an Ohio family of tenant farmers spreads across 17 states and dozens of occupations, or a Swedish Lutheran family grows to include Catholic, Jewish, African-American and Hispanic members. 
 ''These days, families are all spread out, and cousins don't live around the corner anymore,'' said Ms. Wagner, author of one of the reunion handbooks. ''And with more people traveling to reunions from far away, there's clearly a trend toward three-day events. For more and more families, it's not just the family picnic anymore, it's several days of events.'' 
 In African-American families, especially, interest in family reunions surged in the late 1970's and early 1980's sparked by Alex Haley's ''Roots.'' ''There have always been family reunions, but 'Roots' inspired a lot more people to start their own,'' said Dr. Ione Vargus, who founded the Family Reunion Insitute at Temple University in 1990. ''And I think 9/11 also had an impact in reminding people about the importance of family.'' 
 In Philadelphia last month, Carol Smith organized her family's first reunion as a way of pulling her far-flung relatives together. ''We had more than 130 people, and it was wonderful,'' she said. ''We got to know all of our relatives from New York and North Carolina and Atlanta. Everybody was very curious about who was who and who belonged to who. It was fun to see the family resemblances. I have a daughter, who's not yet 2, who doesn't look like anybody in my family. She's got light eyes and light hair, and nobody ever knew where it came from. But at the reunion there was this one cousin from New York, who's about 30, and looks exactly like her. My older kids had a great time, and now they want to know if we can have it on a cruise next year.''
 REUNIONS in the South and Midwest often recall a family's long connection to the land. In Kansas, for example, the Adams family, which once farmed most of Mitchell County, gathers each year in the dwindling town of Barnard. The reunion used to be at the original homestead, but it was moved to the local community center when the descendants of a 17-child family became too numerous for the old three-room farmhouse. 
 While the Adamses have flourished, Barnard has shrunk to the point that the hundred-plus reunion-goers may outnumber the town's population. ''There's nothing much left in Barnard,'' said Jana Hawley, who now lives in Missouri. ''My aunt ran the only restaurant in town, then her daughter took it over, but there's not enough business left to support it.'' (This year, the reunion was followed immediately by a goodbye party for the restaurant owner.)
 In many families with immigrant grandparents or great-grandparents, the emphasis is on ethnic roots. The Tzivanis family gathers each year near Endicott, N.Y., where the original Greek patriarch worked in a tannery. Although the Tzivanis gathering now includes Chinese, Korean and black family members -- and many who have fallen away from the Greek Orthodox Church -- the reunion is a time for Greek food, Greek music and Greek dancing.
 Another high point is the family meeting, at which, this year, Nick Capousis, a lawyer in Maryland, was moved to pay tribute to his grandparents: ''They really were the immigrant story,'' he said. ''They came, they got jobs, they raised a family, and we're here. This is the proof, the legacy of who we are as a family.''
 The Tzivanis meeting includes a reading of the minutes, a tradition begun by an aunt who was a union secretary and made entries like ''Debbie's dog, Gypsy, had puppies;'' ''Tom Anthis shaved his mustache;'' and ''Steve Capousis suggested something or other, but we all shouted him down.'' Family issues, big and small, come up in the minutes, too: Should the reunion be catered? How much money was collected to buy prizes for the children's games? And, in the mid-80's, when attendance at the reunion fell below 40, would the tradition survive?
 ''We were worried there that it might die out, that there weren't enough young people,'' said Anne Tzivani (her part of the family spells it without the ''s'') wife of Harry, one of 11 children of the original immigrants. ''But then everyone began having babies, and now there might be 100 of us.''
 The waxing and waning of family reunions is normal, said Ms. Wagner. ''I get a lot of calls from parents who are worried because their children, somewhere between their late teenage years and their late 20's, don't want to come anymore,'' she said. ''First I ask what they plan for that age group. Most reunions have things for the kids to do, and the older people are happy to sit around and talk. But that may not be too appealing for a 20-year-old. I also tell people not to worry too much. If people had a good time at the reunion when they were kids, and almost all of them do, they'll come back when they're married and have kids of their own.''
 In Junction, Tex., the Jarvises have held a three-day reunion on the Llano River annually for 74 years, starting when the bell rings for Friday dinner on the weekend closest to July 4. Usually, about 100 descendants of the 12 children of W. T. and Nancy Jarvis come together under the oak and pecan trees on the family ranch. Some things stay the same, year to year: the family starts rolling in early Friday, up through the cattle gates and the herds of goats and cows. There are gooseneck trailers with awnings that shelter a row of cots, little tents, big tents and campers everywhere.
 There's always a tubing trip down the river, a Saturday night expedition to a nearby honky-tonk, a Sunday fish fry and glorious brisket and cabrito from the barbecue pit. There's always a game of seven-card stud going, always men pitching washers, always plenty of coolers of beer.
 ''Family's the most important thing there is, and this is how we teach the children.'' said Holly Jarvis Nixon, who owns the ranch. ''We have all kinds of people in this family, ranchers and city people, atheists and Bible-thumpers. Even if this is the only time you see them all year, you'd do anything for any one of them, and they would for you. The reunion's kept us close all these years.''
 For all its traditions, the Jarvis family is changing rapidly, with fewer ranchers, and many of the young ones leaving for cities, graduate school and professional training. ''We're a weird mix, with teachers and cowboys and veterinarians and lesbians and ex-beauty queens,'' said Wheless Miller, herself a teacher who has been a ranch manager. ''But we all love it here.''
 Many of the young Jarvises look forward all year to the reunion, to lazing on the river and seeing their dozens of cousins. For the city cousins, it is a chance to learn about ranch life. For the ranch kids, it is a chance to hear about urban life.
 The family loves the accumulated history of their reunions, from the year of the epic rain and mud to the year the rattlesnake came into the campsite and Odie shot it. 
 There are rural tobacco-chewers and city sophisticates at the reunion, and cousins in from Oregon and Arizona. The Georgia cousin who just climbed Mount Everest didn't make it this year, but the glamorous Hollywood cousin did. For the rest of the year, these people lead very different lives.
 But for three days on the river, they are all just Jarvises, together again.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CONVOCATION -- Adrian Robles, left, leads a prayer at the Jarvis family reunion in Texas. (Photo by Bryce Harper for The New York Times)
UNITED NATIONALITIES -- Their roots are Greek, but the Tzivanises, left, now include the Vigliotti children, above, blacks and Asians. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F5)
 REUNION -- In July, the Tzivanis family, including Kathleen Hurliman, gathered near Endicott, N.Y., where a Greek forefather worked in a tannery. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); FAMILY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); STATE PARKS (64%); HOTEL CHAINS (64%) Families and Family Life; Parties (Social); Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Tamar Lewin

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (58%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



312 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: INVESTIGATIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Seized Records Indicate Surveillance of Buildings Was Updated This Spring

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Al Qaeda operatives updated surveillance conducted at five financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington as recently as this spring, according to a senior White House official who said on Thursday that the authorities still had no direct evidence of an active terror plot.
 Until Thursday, officials had said that the surveillance, which was carried out primarily in 2000 and 2001, had been updated no later than January. But additional analysis of computer records seized in Pakistan showed that they were updated in the spring, the White House official said. 
 The discovery of the surveillance operations led to a terrorism alert on Aug. 1 because, the authorities said, they thought the information might be connected to separate intelligence indicating that Al Qaeda hoped to launch a major strike in the United States this year to disrupt the fall elections. New intelligence from that channel said there was a greater risk of attack this month and next -- the period covering the Republican National Convention and the first phase of the fall campaign -- than in October or November, the official said. 
 The evidence that surveillance reports on the financial institutions were updated is based on forensic examinations of computer materials seized last month in Pakistan after the arrest of Mohammed Naeem Noor Khan, the official said, adding that none of the information indicated that Al Qaeda had abandoned plans to attack the financial centers.
 The official offered a few additional details about the threat information, saying that intelligence suggested attacks were possible in New York and other cities like Washington and Los Angeles.
 ''The threat has been building,'' the official said. ''We know they are building toward an attack in the United States and that information becomes increasingly refined.''
 It is still unclear exactly how the computer files were updated, although officials have said that dates on the computer records show when the files were opened by a user.
 ''I have not seen evidence of an imminent operation,'' said the official, who has reviewed classified information and analytical reports about terrorist threats to the United States. The official added, ''I have no indication that this was a plan they set aside.''
 The official would not discuss specifics about who was suspected of carrying out the highly detailed surveillance activities, citing the risk of compromising intelligence operations and possible prosecutions in Britain. It is still not clear, the official said, whether the reconnaissance was carried out by one person gathering data over a long period of time or was the work of several people operating as a team.
 Last week, 11 men were arrested by British authorities, including Issa al-Hindi, who is believed by American intelligence officials to have directed the surveillance operations at the five financial institutions. Mr. al-Hindi was found through e-mail messages and other information found in Mr. Khan's computers.
 Security officials in Britain have complained to American officials about the disclosure of information about the arrests of Mr. al-Hindi and others, suggesting that leaks could jeopardize criminal cases that are expected to be filed soon.
 The United States official said that the arrests in Pakistan and Britain represented a ''strategic'' penetration of Al Qaeda, saying that Mr. Khan represented an important ''operational node in the operational chain'' of the terror network. Officials say that Mr. Khan, while not high-ranking himself, has given them a new picture of the inner workings of Al Qaeda as it regenerates itself in Pakistan and the region.
 The disclosure of Mr. Khan's arrest has stirred controversy in Pakistan and Britain, where officials said that American pressure to apprehend the communications expert had put his confederates on notice that he had been captured and may have compromised efforts to locate additional Qaeda operatives.
 In response, the White House official said that it appeared Mr. Khan's name had been first disclosed by officials overseas, not in the United States. In any event, the official said, the arrest of suspected terrorists, even when unannounced, is often quickly detected by their families and associates. American officials have denied news accounts that Mr. Khan was working as a mole, or an informant for Pakistan, when he was arrested.
 In another development, the government's troubled case against three men who were convicted last year in Detroit on terrorism charges suffered another blow when a witness said that a video tape shown to the jury as a possible terrorist surveillance video contained only sightseeing pictures taken on a student trip.
 The witness, a Tunisian man who is pictured in the videotape of landmarks in New York, Las Vegas and California, was arrested in January on immigration charges. The witness's statement, which was first reported by The Associated Press, has been turned over to defense lawyers by the Justice Department.
 After the verdict last year, the Justice Department said that prosecutors had broken up a significant terror group. Three of four men on trial were convicted. Karim Koubriti, 25; Abdel-Ilah Elmardoudi, 38, were convicted on terrorism and fraud charges, and Ahmed Hannan, 36, was convicted of fraud. 
 The convictions have seemed to be threatened for months after Justice Department officials disclosed the existence of documents that prosecutors failed to turn over to defense lawyers and that might have helped the defendants' cases. The Justice Department is reviewing the prosecutor's conduct in the case. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); ARRESTS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); FORENSICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (59%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (53%) Terrorism; Prudential Building (Newark, NJ); Computers and the Internet; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) New York Stock Exchange; International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: David Johnston; David E Sanger; Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%) New York City; New Jersey; Washington (DC); Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



313 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economy Continues to Grow, but at a Slower Rate

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
Japan's economy continued to expand in the second quarter, though at a much slower pace than expected and amid signs that a tentative recovery in consumer spending is weakening.
 Japan's gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 1.7 percent for the three months that ended June 30, less than the 4.2 percent predicted by economists and slower than the 3 percent growth of the United States economy in the same quarter.
 The growth rate was a sharp slowdown from the 6.6 percent that Japan experienced in the first quarter. Although many economists had predicted that growth would slow to a more moderate rate, the deceleration was much sharper than expected. 
 ''The pace is slowing down because the tremendous impetus that came from the surge in exports over the last nine months appears to be easing,'' Richard Jerram, an economist for Macquarie Securities in Tokyo, said before the figures were released Friday morning in Tokyo. ''It's still positive but simply not as positive.'' 
 Still, Mr. Jerram said that he expected the recovery to continue over the next year, though at a slower rate, as stronger demand at home picked up some of the slack left by slowing export growth.
 While Japan's economic recovery was initially driven primarily by exports to fast-growing China and the United States, the big surge in growth in the first quarter was fueled by consumption at home. That was encouraging because it suggested the Japanese economy could keep growing even if slowdowns in China or the United States curbed the rise in exports. 
 But Friday's numbers suggested that the consumer rebound had already begun to trail off, leaving the economy again largely dependent on export growth. 
 External demand, fueled by strong exports, added 0.3 percent to the growth rate for the quarter, while demand at home contributed 0.1 percent. 
 The feeble contribution from domestic demand was a surprise because there had been signs that consumers were growing more confident amid brighter outlooks for jobs, corporate profits and income growth. Japan's unemployment rate was at its lowest level in more than three and a half years in June, at 4.6 percent, amid signs that companies are hiring workers after years of cutting back. 
 Still, incomes have yet to rebound, a factor that may be putting a damper on consumer spending. Consumption among Japanese households declined a surprising 2.6 percent in June, compared with figures a year earlier, serving as a warning that the recovery remains fragile.
 Many economists, however, said they were not too alarmed by the fall, given that household spending rose for seven consecutive months before June's decline. 
 The public sector has also been a drag on the economy over the last few quarters, as government spending has slowed. That is consistent with a promise made by the administration of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to reduce deficits built up over the last decade as previous administrations tried to revive a weak economy with big doses of public spending. 
 Despite worries that the lift from exports will soon diminish, that sector remained relatively healthy in the second quarter. Automakers, consumer electronics companies and industrial equipment manufacturers are enjoying robust profit growth because of strong overseas sales. Japan's current account surplus, a broad measure of trade in goods, services, tourism and investment, rose 15.7 percent in June from a year ago, mostly because of healthy export growth. 
 Still, one reason that economists expect Japan's expansion to slow over the next year is that China's torrid growth seems likely to cool off. Japan's economy is closely tied to China's through trade, so Japan will be affected by any slowdown there. Worried that an overheating economy could ignite inflation, the Chinese authorities have been trying to slow the pace of growth by placing curbs on bank lending and other measures. So far, they have successfully cooled growth without bringing it to a halt. 
 ''We're less worried about China than we were three months ago,'' Mr. Jerram said. 
 Another potential risk for Japan's economy is the rise in oil prices, although economists say the increase does not seem to be hurting much so far. Also, economists say Japan may be less vulnerable than the United States to rising oil prices. While an increase raises costs for companies, Japanese consumers are less affected by higher gasoline prices because few Japanese commute to work and so spend less on average on gasoline than do Americans.
 But Toshihiko Fukui, the governor of the Bank of Japan, recently cited rising oil prices as a threat to Japan, if not directly, then through the effect that the increase is having on important trading partners like the United States and China.


GRAPHIC: Photo: While Japan's recovery was initially driven by exports, growth in the first quarter was fueled by consumer spending. But household consumption fell 2.6 percent in June, a sign that the recovery remains fragile. (Photo by Everett Kennedy Brown/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (61%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%) Gross Domestic Product; Consumer Behavior; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%) Japan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



314 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Hewlett Profits Come In Lower Than Expected

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
The troubled technology sector took another blow Thursday as Hewlett-Packard, the computer maker, reported that its earnings for the third quarter fell short of Wall Street expectations. 
 Hewlett's chief executive, Carleton S. Fiorina, angrily called the performance ''clearly unacceptable'' in the division that sells equipment to government and corporations, and fired three vice presidents.
 In a conference call held shortly before the markets opened on Thursday, Ms. Fiorina vowed to make ''immediate management changes'' based on ''unacceptable performance'' within the underperforming division, the Customer Solutions Group. 
 The company also warned Wall Street that its projected earnings for the fourth quarter, ending October 31, would disappoint stockholders. 
 Shares of Hewlett-Packard fell $2.57, or 13 percent, to close at $16.95, then declined another 5 cents in after-hours trading. The sharp decline dragged down share prices in the entire technology sector. 
 Analysts, however, cautioned against drawing broader conclusions about the technology sector because the drop in Hewlett-Packard's earnings was primarily attributable to problems inside the company.
 Rob Enderle, the principal analyst at the Enderle Group, a research firm in San Jose, Calif., said he was awakened at 4:15 a.m. by a Hewlett-Packard representative telling him the company had an important announcement. ''It was very clear that Carly was very surprised by this news and very upset,'' Mr. Enderle said. The company conducted the call at 5 a.m. from inside its Palo Alto, Calif., headquarters.
 By midmorning, Ms. Fiorina had sent a memorandum to all company employees announcing that she had already replaced three top vice presidents in the Customer Solutions Group. The memo, mincing no words, gave perfunctory thanks to the fired executives for their years of service.
 Hewlett-Packard's announcement followed Tuesday's warning from John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco Systems, the network equipment maker, that corporate business leaders are ''a little more cautious in their outlook than they were a quarter ago.'' 
 Still, A.M. Sacconaghi, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, cautioned against looking at Hewlett-Packard's weak performance as signaling a trend for information technology spending. ''My takeaway is that while this certainly does not give me the warm fuzzies about overall I.T. spending, I think the vast majority of what's going on here are H.P. specific issues,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said, referring to the information technology sector by its initials.
 Excluding charges, Hewlett-Packard earned $846 million, or 24 cents a share, in the quarter ended July 31, compared with $858 million for the quarter a year ago. Financial analysts had expected a profit of 31 cents a share on revenue of $19 billion, according to a survey conducted by Thomson Financial. 
 The company projected fourth- quarter earnings of 35 to 39 cents a share, based on revenue of $21 billion to $21.5 billion. Before Thursday's announcement, financial analysts had anticipated earnings of 41 to 47 cents a share for the fourth quarter. 
 The company reported solid earnings in most business areas, including its highly profitable printing division and its consulting services unit. At the same time, Ms. Fiorina did not hold back when expressing dissatisfaction with those inside the company responsible for the business units that sell the equipment used to run data centers inside corporations and other large institutions. 
 ''Although we are satisfied with our performance in personal systems, imaging and printing, software and services,'' Ms. Fiorina said, ''these solid results were overshadowed by unacceptable performance in enterprise servers and storage. Here execution issues cost us, and we are therefore making immediate management changes.'' 
 Over all, the company's revenues grew 9 percent compared with the quarter last year, to $18.9 billion. Consumer computer sales grew 19 percent over the period last year, while sales from consulting services grew 12 percent. Revenue from server and storage sales, when compared with the quarter last year, dropped 5 percent, to $3.4 billion. 
 In explaining the steep drop in its server and storage revenues, Ms. Fiorina cited the introduction of a new order-taking software package that took six weeks to put into place rather than the two weeks that the company had expected. She also cited problems with the intermediaries who sell Hewlett-Packard equipment, particularly those operating in Europe. At the same time, the company experienced a softening in the broader storage market -- a trend that has hurt other data storage companies in recent weeks. 
 ''There's no question that in the last quarter server sales have been soft across the industry, as they traditionally are in the third quarter,'' Mr. Enderle said. ''I think the surprise here, and what analysts didn't factor in when making their estimates, are the operational problems inside H.P. That's why I think Carly was talking so forcefully about serious changes in management.''
 The fired executives were Peter Blackmore, responsible for direct sales to businesses and government worldwide; Jim Milton, responsible for sales in the Americas; and Kasper Rorsted, a vice president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 
 ''When the company's C.E.O. so specifically identifies certain people in management, you know this is a significant area of concern,'' said Tim Bajarin, president of Creative Strategies, a technology consulting company. 
 Yet Mr. Sacconaghi noted that not all of Hewlett-Packard's problems could be fixed with personnel changes. 
 ''Part of H.P.'s problem is structural,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. ''The company is in the midst of a shift from the sales of high-end, high-margin machines -- units that have a 50- plus percent gross margins -- to low- end servers, with a 20 percent gross margin. And when the high-margin stuff is not growing, and the low-margin stuff is growing, you've got a negative shift taking place.'' 
 By contrast, Dell Inc., Hewlett-Packard's top rival in the personal computer business, announced on Thursday that its earnings for the quarter ended in July had met analysts' estimates. Dell, which released its report after the market closed, said net income rose 29 percent, to $799 million, or 31 cents a share, from $621 million, or 24 cents a share, for the period last year. It also offered a strong forecast for earnings in the current quarter. 
 While Hewlett-Packard's disappointing report may say little about the broader technology market, prospects for a quick recovery will be hindered by a slowdown in corporate technology spending. 
 ''Companies have already burned through most of the money they budgeted for this year, and so we're seeing there isn't the money to buy more large capital equipment,'' Mr. Enderle said. ''These budgets were set last year, when we were in the throes of a recession, and so these budgets weren't heavily funded.'' 
 Companies spent more liberally in the first half of the year, Mr. Enderle said, when the economy seemed to be picking up. ''It looks like the second half of the year is going to be pretty soft in terms of I.T. corporate spending,'' Mr. Enderle said. 
 In its earnings announcement in mid-July, I.B.M., another Hewlett-Packard rival, noted that it had observed a pause in corporate buying at the end of the second quarter, but the company stressed that it regarded the pause as temporary. 
 Indeed, I.B.M. announced on Thursday that it was increasing its hiring worldwide this year to 18,800 new employees from its earlier forecast of 15,000. Most of the new hiring will take place in its consulting business, where it competes directly with Hewlett-Packard.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carleton S. Fiorina, Hewlett-Packard's chief, fired three executives yesterday, after disclosing that profits would be lower than expected. (Photo by J. Kyle Keener/Detroit Free Press/Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (61%) Company Reports ; Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co ; Dell Inc; Hewlett-Packard Co ; International Business Machines Corp

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (57%) Carleton S Fiorina; Peter Blackmore; Jim Milton; Kasper Rorsted; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



315 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Aided by Back-to-School Sales, Discount Chains Top Forecasts

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the Target Corporation reported quarterly earnings yesterday that were slightly better than expected as demand for high-profit items like back-to-school clothing made up for summer sales that were held back by steep gasoline prices. 
 The companies, the top two discount retailers, said they were confident that profits would continue to increase this year, even as oil prices hovered near record highs.
 Target's stock was among the day's biggest gainers on the New York Stock Exchange, up more than 3 percent, while Wal-Mart shares climbed nearly 2 percent. 
 Wal-Mart, Target and other United States retailers posted June sales that fell short of expectations, prompting concerns about the strength of the economy. July sales rebounded somewhat, but the Commerce Department said yesterday that its measure of overall retail sales showed a gain of 0.7 percent, smaller than economists had expected.
 Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Ark., earned $2.7 billion, or 62 cents a share, in the second quarter, which ended July 31. That compares with $2.3 billion, or 52 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts, on average, had expected profit of 60 cents a share.
 Second-quarter sales rose 11.3 percent, to $69.7 billion, while sales at stores open at least a year -- also known as same-store sales -- rose 4.1 percent.
 For the current quarter, Wal-Mart forecast earnings of 52 cents to 54 cents a share. Analysts, on average, expected earnings of 53 cents.
 For the full year, Wal-Mart raised its forecast by 1 cent a share to a range of $2.36 to $2.40, in line with Wall Street expectations for $2.38.
 Target, based in Minneapolis, said earnings were $1.4 billion, or $1.54 a share, in the second quarter ended July 31, helped by a $1.02 billion gain on the sale of its Marshall Field's department store chain.
 That compares with earnings of $358 million, or 39 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
 Excluding the gain of $1.11 a share from the Marshall Field's sale and a charge of 5 cents a share for debt buybacks, earnings were 1 cent a share better than analysts' estimates.
 On a conference call with analysts, the retailer said it expected to hit Wall Street's target of 37 cents a share for the third quarter.
 Second-quarter revenue rose 10 percent, to $10.56 billion.
 Target's sale of its Marshall Field's chain to May Department Stores closed on July 31, and it has agreed to sell its Mervyn's stores to private equity firms. Analysts had long said that the department stores were a drag on Target's profits and masked the strong performance at the discount stores.
 Shares of Wal-Mart were up $1.02, or 2 percent, at $52.65, while Target's stock added $1.48, or 3.7 percent, to $41.90.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Company Reports ; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (96%); WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); MACY'S INC (87%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Target Corp

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (96%); WMT (NYSE) (95%); M (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (96%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (96%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (87%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



316 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: Asset Mix Took Toll on United's Pension Fund

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
United Airlines, which appears likely to default on its pension plans in the coming months, invested a larger-than-average share of its $6.6 billion pension portfolio in illiquid investments, while also investing liberally in junk bonds, technology and pharmaceutical start-ups, even a gold mining company in Ghana. 
 But a rare look at the latest available detailed information on the contents of United's pension fund, as of December 2002, shows no extraordinary missteps or unique failures of judgment; the airline got into trouble more or less the way virtually every other pension fund did that year.
 While United's investment results were not far out of step with other pension funds, the losses had a far more devastating effect on the fund because they coincided with United's own business troubles. Cash-rich companies that suffered pension losses during the bear market have been able to pump new money into their plans. But United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, is in bankruptcy, and it has no spare cash with which to replace the pension money lost in the stock market. 
 The market's rebound since then has not helped United much either. Even though the value of its pension assets has gone back up, its obligations have grown, too. Its pension fund finished 2003 with $6.9 billion in assets, or just 53 percent of the amount needed to pay its $13.1 billion of obligations to retirees. 
 United's difficulties with its pension plans are prompting some specialists to call for a re-examination of the way all companies handle their pension investments, which they say forces the government to act as a backstop for speculative investments over which it has little oversight. When a company pension fund fails, the government's pension insurance agency, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, makes up the losses. 
 Rich Nelson, a spokesman for United, said that if anything, the airline's pension investments surpassed industry benchmarks.
 ''The return on United's current pension program since its inception 17 years ago is in line with, and slightly ahead of, comparable large corporate plans,'' Mr. Nelson said. United has four separate pension plans for different groups of employees, but keeps the assets pooled in a single trust.
 Like most corporate pension funds, United's favored stocks above all else. It held about 61 percent of its total assets in stocks at the end of 2002, with about one-fifth of those the stocks of foreign businesses. The average corporate pension fund was about the same.
 As a stock picker, United fell prey to many of the same highflying dot-coms and telecom flameouts that brought grief to investors everywhere when the technology bubble burst. Its pension fund also had a sizable exposure to the energy-trading companies -- like El Paso Energy, Dynegy and the Williams Companies -- that became embroiled in accounting disputes that year. The biggest energy-trading disaster, Enron, does not appear on the list, however. 
 United's pension investments also included companies found well off the beaten path, in emerging countries like Russia, Thailand, China and Panama. Some of these -- like the Ghanaian gold mining concern -- were gambles that paid off. Others, like a $5 million bet on an Israeli software company, Check Point Software Technologies, were losers that ended 2002 worth just a fraction of what United paid for them. 
 The most telling sign of United's stomach for risk was its pension fund's relatively large position in stocks that are not publicly traded. United had about 5.1 percent of its pension assets in these stocks, known as private equities -- not enough to be the ruination of the pension fund, but still well above the average, just 3.4 percent, for the company pension funds tracked by Greenwich Associates, a research and consulting firm. 
 Some pension watchdogs frown on the use of private equities because they are hard to sell. They are normally offered through investment partnerships that require commitments of 8 to 10 years, and they are very difficult to cash out of without losses. Their year-to-year performance is hard to evaluate because there are no uniform disclosure requirements and they have no agreed-upon market price.
 At the end of 2002, United's commitments had not yet borne fruit. It paid $403.5 million for the private equities but said they were worth just $313.4 million at that point. 
 Mr. Nelson called the airline's position in private equities ''an appropriate level, in keeping with our overall diversification strategy.''
 Over all, the value of United's pension assets fell by about 9.3 percent in 2002, according to separate records filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. That compares to a 0.2 percent average decline in pension asset values that year, according to Greenwich Associates. (Both year-to-year changes include the effect of company contributions and payments to retirees during the year, as well as investment returns.) 
 Virtually all companies that operate pension funds have ranged far afield from the conservative bonds that secured pensions years ago. Today, the typical pension fund has about 60 percent of its assets in stocks and about 30 percent in bonds, and the rest in what are known as alternative investments: private equities, real estate, high-yield bonds, even hedge funds. 
 The goal in investing so aggressively has been to reduce compensation costs and bolster profits. The accounting rules for pension funds help, by allowing companies to project the long-term gains they expect from their pension investments, then factor that projection into their bottom lines -- even in years when the projections are dead wrong.
 United assumed that its pension fund would earn 9.75 percent in 2002, for instance, and used that assumption to reduce its reported labor costs, even though the pension fund actually lost money. 
 This feature of the accounting rules has drawn much criticism from investors, who find it misleading. Pension specialists fault it further, saying it has become a powerful incentive for companies to invest in riskier assets. The greater the risk, the higher the projected returns a company can justify, and the stronger the kick to the bottom line.
 ''The accounting encourages a mismatch, because they get an earnings windfall,'' said Zvi Bodie, a finance professor at Boston University who has warned for years of the dangers of trying to secure pension promises with stocks and other volatile investments. ''It's bad for employees because it increases the chance that they won't get their promised benefits. It's bad for the P.B.G.C. It's bad for the taxpayers. So who's it good for? It's good for the firms that manage the equities.'' 
 Despite such warnings, many pension officials say today's approach to pension investing is sound. Stocks, they say, can be expected to yield higher returns over the long term, which is why they believe they make sense given the nature of pension commitments far into the future.
 ''The company's investment strategy,'' Mr. Nelson, United's spokesman, said, ''emphasizes diversification among asset classes, such as equity and fixed income, diversification among investment strategies such as growth stocks and value stocks, and diversification among the managers. The strategy focuses on long-term returns, given the plans' long-term liabilities.'' 
 United's list of pension investments is not routinely open to public scrutiny, although it is not officially secret either. A copy of its list was provided to The New York Times by a government official after numerous requests. 
 One of United's more venturesome investments was a stake in Ashanti Goldfields, a large mining company that went public in 1994, when the government of Ghana sold off more than 100 state enterprises. Though some critics deplored what they called the sale of ''Ghanaians' birthright'' at the time, the stock offering was widely hailed as a success, with development economists calling it a sign that long-overlooked Ghana was ripe for foreign investment. In 1999, Ashanti became the first African operating company to trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Ashanti's stock price went nowhere in the late 1990's, but then rocketed in 2002, when two other big mining companies, one in London and the other in South Africa, mounted a billion-dollar bidding war for Ashanti's stock.
 Last April the South African company finally won, and Ashanti Goldfields was merged into AngloGold in a deal with a reported value of $1.3 billion. United's pension list foreshadows this success, stating the pension fund had paid $147,000 for stock worth $310,000 at the end of 2002. The airline was unable yesterday to describe what happened to its investment after that. 
 But United's investments in private equities were less auspicious. In 1996, for example, United made a commitment to a private investment partnership being offered by Willis Stein & Partners, an investment firm in Chicago, where the airline has its headquarters. Willis Stein said it would put its investors' money to work buying and building up midsize companies in the Midwest, and by 1998 it was reporting returns in the 40 percent range.
 Willis Stein then offered a second partnership and United made a commitment to that one, too. But that partnership bought, among other things, a Chicago publishing company that focused on technology titles, which was caught up in the technology crash. At the end of 2002, United's list showed a current value of $9 million for the second partnership, and a historical cost of $23 million.
 Regulators have watched companies make pension investments like these with growing concern in recent years, knowing the federal pension agency would be called upon to cover the losses if the markets soured. But pension regulators have little power to influence such investment decisions. The pension funding rules provide detailed instructions for how much companies must put into their pension funds, but they say almost nothing about how the money should then be invested.
 As more and more failed pension funds have gone to the pension agency in recent years, some officials have proposed new measures to discourage excessive risk-taking. One idea being considered is to change the premiums the government charges for its pension insurance. 
 Currently, the agency charges most companies flat-rate premiums, $19 per covered employee, no matter how risky or safe the assets in the pension fund. Proponents of the change say that if the premiums were tied to risk, not only would the deficit-ridden pension agency get more revenue, but companies would have an incentive to rein in the riskiness of their pension investments. 
 ''It certainly would not be hard to do this for a private insurance entity,'' Mr. Bodie said. But the pension agency would have to get Congressional approval, he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Investing Heavily in Stocks''The pension assets of United Airlines were heavily concentrated in stocks at the end of 2002, mirroring the allocations of other airlines, most corporations and large investment funds.Asset allocations, end of 2002United Airlines*UNITED STATES STOCKS: 47.7%FOREIGN STOCKS: 13.5GOVERNMENT SECURITIES, CORPORATE BONDS: 30.9PRIVATE EQUITY: 5.1REAL ESTATE AND OTHER (INCLUDES HEDGE FUNDS AND CASH ON HAND): 2.8All airlinesUNITED STATES STOCKS: 41.6%FOREIGN STOCKS: 16.5GOVERNMENT SECURITIES, CORPORATE BONDS: 31.2PRIVATE EQUITY: 7.2REAL ESTATE AND OTHER (INCLUDES HEDGE FUNDS AND CASH ON HAND): 3.5All corporationsUNITED STATES STOCKS: 45.6%FOREIGN STOCKS: 14.6GOVERNMENT SECURITIES, CORPORATE BONDS: 30.4PRIVATE EQUITY: 3.4REAL ESTATE AND OTHER (INCLUDES HEDGE FUNDS AND CASH ON HAND): 6.1Investment funds with more than $5 billion in assetsUNITED STATES STOCKS: 43.1%FOREIGN STOCKS: 15.8GOVERNMENT SECURITIES, CORPORATE BONDS: 28.8PRIVATE EQUITY: 4.9REAL ESTATE AND OTHER (INCLUDES HEDGE FUNDS AND CASH ON HAND): 7.4*Figures exclude liabilities from swaps and other transactions that were pending at the end of the year.(Sources by Greenwich Associates
 UAL Corporation filings)(pg. C3)Chart: ''Losing Ground''United Airlines pension assets have not kept pace with the growth in its pension obligations.Graph tracks pension obligations and pension assets from 1997 to 2003.(Source by UAL Corporation filings)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); BENCHMARKING (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (60%); GOLD MINING (57%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Bankruptcies; Labor; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (83%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (65%); WILLIAMS COS INC (60%); DYNEGY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines; Ual Corp

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (83%); WMB (NYSE) (60%); DYN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (60%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (60%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



317 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Google Interview Raises Concern Over Quiet Period
Google planned to proceed with its initial public stock offering today, even as an interview its founders gave to Playboy magazine raised more questions about whether the offering can be completed this month.
 The September issue of Playboy has an eight-page interview with Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the company's two founders. While the interview does not contain any significant new information, it could run afoul of Securities and Exchange Commission rules that enforce a ''quiet period'' on companies selling stock. [Page C2.]

Archipelago Holdings, owner of the nation's first electronic stock trading network open to the public, raised $126.5 million in an initial offering after cutting the share price. [C2.]

Europe Names Antitrust Regulator
Neelie Kroes, left, a former Dutch transport minister, was nominated as Europe's competition commissioner, the European Union's chief antitrust enforcer. Ms. Kroes, 63, will succeed Mario Monti, 61. Ms. Kroes's main job will be to enforce new rules regarding mergers, cartels and government subsidies across the 25-nation European Union's $12 trillion economy. She faces an overhaul of antitrust and government aid rules as well as opposition from some member countries that want industrial policy to take precedence. [World Business, Section W.]

Market Hits New Lows for the Year
A jump in oil prices above $45 a barrel and an earnings disappointment from Hewlett-Packard pushed the stock market to new lows for the year. The Dow was down 123.73 points, to 9,814.59. The Standard &Poor's 500-stock index dropped 12.56 points, to 1,063.23. The Nasdaq composite index fell 29.93 points, to 1,752.49. [C6.]

Japan Banks Have Tentative Deal
The Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group reached a preliminary deal to buy UFJ Holdings in a deal that would create the world's biggest bank. [World Business, Section W.]

Japan's Growth Rate Slows
Japan's economy continued to expand in the second quarter of the year, though at a much slower pace than expected. [C6.]

Seeking an Olympic-Size Audience
Madison Avenue is wondering how avidly Americans will be watching this summer's Olympics. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C4.]

Major Discounters Report Gains
Wal-Mart Stores and Target reported that quarterly earnings were better than expected as demand for high-profit items like back-to-school clothing made up for summer sales that were held back by steep gasoline prices. The top two discount retailers said they were confident that profits would continue to increase this year. Target's stock was among the day's biggest gainers on the New York Stock Exchange, up more than 3 percent. Wal-Mart shares climbed nearly 2 percent. [C4.]

Retail sales in the United States rose last month and initial jobless claims unexpectedly declined to the lowest level in five weeks. [C2.]

Fed Releases Minutes From June
Higher inflation, business confidence and compensation costs prompted Federal Reserve policy makers to raise the benchmark interest rate for the first time in four years on June 30, minutes of the meeting showed. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,814.59 down 123.73Nasdaq composite -- 1,752.49 down 29.9310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.27% -- unch.The euro -- $1.2241 up 0.0027The dollar -- 110.89 yen up 0.08Graph: ''TODAY'' shows balance of trade figures from December 2003 to May 2004 and Producer Price Index figures from January to June.Balance of TradeJune figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$47 billionProducer Price IndexJuly figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Target shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); RETAILERS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); CARTELS (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); RETAIL SALES (64%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (61%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (82%); WAL-MART STORES INC (63%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); MTU (NYSE) (82%); 8306 (TSE) (82%); WMT (NYSE) (63%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (63%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (63%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (79%); NEELIE KROES (75%); SERGEY BRIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (68%) EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



318 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Where Creative Heat Meets Molten Metal

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
It sometimes has the feel of the pious descending on Santiago de Compostela on St. James's Day: the hordes of weekend art pilgrims, identifiable usually by their funky glasses and carefully studied unstudied look, stepping off Metro-North trains in Beacon, N.Y., and wandering in large groups down the street to Dia:Beacon, the skylighted shrine to Minimalist and Conceptualist art that opened last year.
 But not many of these art travelers are aware that about a mile north of Dia is another place where, if they were lucky, they might catch a glimpse of a beautifully twisted bench, reminiscent of a whale's tail, designed by the Iraqi-born architect Zaha Hadid -- and not just a glimpse of this work but of the work in its last stages of being born, as an artisan polished and smoothed it. Or they might walk past a looming Robert Indiana ''LOVE'' sculpture, made of Cor-Ten steel, that had been trucked in from Indianapolis to be saved from rust. Or tiny bronze figures, cute but slightly menacing, designed by the sculptor Tom Otterness, whose pieces were literally scattered from room to room as if they had been caught in some kind of art shootout. 
 Across the way, they could have seen a blood-red wax cast of Winston Churchill, slightly larger than life, that extended only from his feet to his chest. You had to look around to find Churchill's shoulders and head, a grave expression on his face, sitting on a table nearby. The effect seemed like something Andy Warhol might have done. Or more likely, Warhol would have made the life-size bronze statue of Andy Griffith and Ron Howard as a young Opie, with fishing poles in hand, standing in another room. (The piece was actually made by StudioEIS in Brooklyn and is bound for Raleigh, N.C., the headquarters of the cable channel TV Land.)
 The place where these works were hiding is Tallix, a 34-year-old fine-arts foundry whose buildings and yards, sprawling over five acres, have been used over the years by dozens of artists, from the completely unknown to the hugely famous -- Roy Lichtenstein, Willem de Kooning, Jeff Koons, Nancy Graves and Claes Oldenburg -- to produce works ranging from miniature to monumental. 
 As the sales pitch for Tallix stresses, the foundry, one of the largest in the country, is a business and does not discriminate on the basis of either artistic merit or size. It can make pieces up to 46 feet high indoors, and virtually any size outdoors.
 ''And with the same skill and care,'' its Web site, Tallix.com, says, ''we can also cast doorknobs, butterflies or the reins for miniature racehorses.''
 Granted, getting in to see any of these works-in-progress is not nearly as easy as it is at Dia:Beacon. Tours are by appointment only on Tuesday through Thursday mornings, and there is no real way to tell whether you will get to see a Julian Schnabel piece being restored or spend the morning looking mostly at expensive reproductions of Beaux Arts birdbaths bound for the backyards of the wealthy. But the chances are good that you will see at least something great, and it is more than worth taking the chance.
 Spending a day roaming around Tallix (the name is a play on the word metallics) is a little like going to a museum exhibition organized by an art-loving anarchists' cell. One recent morning, on a guided tour provided by Meredith L. Roedel, the foundry's director of restoration and special projects, the sights included a huge Joel Shapiro sculpture stretching its beams like arms into the sunlight in a yard outside the foundry.
 Inside the barns, where workers were casting sculptures, pouring bronze into forms and polishing finished products, there was a stainless-steel work by George Condo, polished to an almost mirror shine, that spelled out the name Miles Davis in enormous block letters. A few rooms away, a clay cast of Thomas M. Whalen III, the mayor of Albany who died two years ago, sat almost lifelike on a bench, his hand petting a clay dog. Oddly, the figure of Mr. Whalen was dressed in a disheveled business suit, which would be used to cast him in a more realistic manner.
 Nearby, David Frech, a traditional figurative sculptor, was working on a plastilene clay version of a majestic-looking woman cradling an infant. After this sculpture is cast in bronze, it will be installed in the fall at the Lovett Memorial Library in Pampa, Tex., to honor the hardy spirit of the pioneer women on the Great Plains.
 As Mr. Frech worked, wearing earphones to isolate him from the bustle around him, he glanced over at Ms. Roedel and focused on her hair, which was pinned up. ''Good hair today,'' he said, glancing back at his figure, whose hair was also swept up. ''I may have to use you as a model later.''
 That kind of easy collaboration between art and business has been a hallmark of Tallix since its founding in 1970 in a garage in Peekskill, N.Y. (The foundry moved to Beacon in 1986.) Vincent Nardone, the vice president for sales, said he remembered when Graves, a prolific artist, would wander in with gourds or beans and ask if there were a way to have them cast. ''Once she came in with sardines,'' he said, laughing. ''It was incredible.''
 ''Tallix was just kind of a word-of-mouth thing that happened, and kept growing,'' he added. ''We just try to do what artists need done.''
 In fact, the foundry, whose handiwork can be found in public places from Washington to London to Moscow to the New York subway, will do almost anything short of breaking the law to help artists realize their dreams. It is now expanding into architectural metals. (The widely praised bronze facade of the American Folk Art Museum in Manhattan was made by Tallix.)
 Peter Homestead, a sales representative for the foundry, said it recently took on a project to make a steel plate three stories high that the architect Michael Baird will bolt onto the front of a new single-family house he is building in the West Village.
 To get the plate into the city, Mr. Homestead added, ''we'll have to close down the George Washington Bridge for about three hours in the middle of the night.''
 ''It's going to be something,'' he said.
 Mr. Nardone said the recession had hit the business particularly hard in recent years. ''Even private collectors are being very careful about what they're spending,'' he said, adding, ''You need to be optimistic to buy art.'' He also said that despite the crowds of art lovers, artists and patrons, the presence of Dia:Beacon down the road has not translated into much more work for the foundry.
 ''It hasn't been overwhelming,'' he said. ''We're actually hoping it starts to go that way.''
 But projects are beginning to increase again, and the foundry is being sought out by more architects who have Frank Gehry-like visions of cladding their buildings in metal.
 To the casual visitor, it certainly looks as if the foundry is running on all cylinders. The other day, Churchill was coming together, and one worker was finishing an Otterness dismembered foot, while others were working on statues of everyone from Don Quixote to the founder of Vassar College.
 The show-stoppers, though, were pieces of a massive, leggy sculpture by Larry Bell that, disassembled, looked like the distended trunks of some kind of sinister tree. When put together, it will rise 30 feet into the air in front of an office building in Hong Kong, and a small team of workers were swarming around it to make sure that it gets there on time.
 ''We've got all hands on deck here,'' Ms. Roedel said. ''It's a big one.''

How to Visit An Art Foundry
 The Tallix art foundry is at 310 Fishkill Avenue, Beacon, N.Y. Tours for groups of eight or more (40 is the maximum) are available mornings, Tuesdays through Thursdays, beginning at 10:30. The fee is $15 a person; $12.50 for ages 65+ and students. To reach the foundry from Manhattan, take the New York State Thruway to Route 84 (Newburgh-Beacon Bridge); continue over the bridge to Exit 12 (Fishkill Avenue) and make a right onto Fishkill Avenue; continue about three miles to the foundry. Information: (800) 682-5549.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Weekend on Friday about the Tallix fine-arts foundry in Beacon, N.Y., misstated the North Carolina destination of a statue of Andy Griffith and Ron Howard. The statue is a gift from the cable-channel TV Land to Mount Airy, not to Raleigh. The article also misstated the location of the headquarters of TV Land. It is New York City, not Raleigh.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Tallix foundry in Beacon, N.Y., LeRoy Fox works on a foot for Tom Otterness's ''Gulliver'' sculpture. Left, Mr. Otterness's ''Big, Big Penny,'' also at the foundry. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. E29)
Clockwise from above: David Frech at Tallix, working on his figure of a prairie woman, destined for a library in Texas
''Urban Francis,'' a sculpture by Judith Shea
a section of Larry Bell's ''Happy Man,'' being waxed
''Don Quixote'' (foreground) by Izhar Patkim
 and an untitled piece by Joel Shapiro standing in the yard outsude the foundry. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. E36)Map of New York state highlighting the location of Tallix. (pg. E36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (61%) Art

ORGANIZATION: Tallix Fine Art Foundry (Beacon, NY)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (73%); ZAHA HADID (57%) Randy Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (53%) GALICIA, SPAIN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (76%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%) Beacon (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



319 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Own Goal

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A new Bush campaign ad pushes the theme of an ''ownership society,'' and concludes with President Bush declaring, ''I understand if you own something, you have a vital stake in the future of America.''
 Call me naive, but I thought all Americans have a vital stake in the nation's future, regardless of how much property they own. (Should we go back to the days when states, arguing that only men of sufficient substance could be trusted, imposed property qualifications for voting?) Even if Mr. Bush is talking only about the economic future, don't workers have as much stake as property owners in the economy's success? 
 But there's a political imperative behind the ''ownership society'' theme: the need to provide pseudopopulist cover to policies that are, in reality, highly elitist.
 The Bush tax cuts have, of course, heavily favored the very, very well off. But they have also, more specifically, favored unearned income over earned income -- or, if you prefer, investment returns over wages. Last year Daniel Altman pointed out in The New York Times that Mr. Bush's proposals, if fully adopted, ''could eliminate almost all taxes on investment income and wealth for almost all Americans.'' Mr. Bush hasn't yet gotten all he wants, but he has taken a large step toward a system in which only labor income is taxed.
 The political problem with a policy favoring investment returns over wages is that a vast majority of Americans derive their income primarily from wages, and that the bulk of investment income goes to a small elite. How, then, can such a policy be sold? By promising that everyone can join the elite. 
 Right now, the ownership of stocks and bonds is highly concentrated. Conservatives like to point out that a majority of American families now own stock, but that's a misleading statistic because most of those ''investors'' have only a small stake in the market. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that more than half of corporate profits ultimately accrue to the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers, while only about 8 percent go to the bottom 60 percent. If the ''ownership society'' means anything, it means spreading investment income more widely -- a laudable goal, if achievable.
 But does Mr. Bush have a way to get us there?
 There's a section on his campaign blog about the ownership society, but it's short on specifics. Much of the space is devoted to new types of tax-sheltered savings accounts. People who have looked into plans for such accounts know, however, that they would provide more tax shelters for the wealthy, but would be irrelevant to most families, who already have access to 401(k)'s. Their ability to invest more is limited not by taxes but by the fact that they aren't earning enough to save more.
 The one seemingly substantive proposal is a blast from the past: a renewed call for the partial privatization of Social Security, which would divert payroll taxes into personal accounts. Mr. Bush campaigned on that issue in 2000, but he never acted on it. And there was a reason the idea went nowhere: it didn't make sense.
 Social Security is, basically, a system in which each generation pays for the previous generation's retirement. If the payroll taxes of younger workers are diverted into private accounts, there will be a gaping financial hole: who will pay benefits to older Americans, who have spent their working lives paying into the current system? Unless you have a way to fill that multitrillion-dollar hole, privatization is an empty slogan, not a real proposal.
 In 2001, Mr. Bush's handpicked commission on Social Security was unable to agree on a plan to create private accounts because there was no way to make the arithmetic work. Undaunted, this year the Bush campaign once again insists that privatization will lead to a ''permanently strengthened Social Security system, without changing benefits for those now in or near retirement, and without raising payroll taxes on workers.'' In other words, 2-1=4.
 Four years ago, Mr. Bush got a free pass from the press on his Social Security ''plan,'' either because reporters didn't understand the arithmetic, or because they assumed that after the election he would come up with a plan that actually added up. Will the same thing happen again? Let's hope not.
 As Mr. Bush has said: ''Fool me once, shame on -- shame on you. Fool me -- can't get fooled again.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); US 401K PLANS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BONDS (72%) Taxation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Social Security (US); Stocks and Bonds; News and News Media; Presidential Election of 2000; Political Advertising; Privatization; Taxation; Labor; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



320 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: As Oil Hits New High, Markets Sink to a Low for the Year

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
A jump in oil prices above $45 a barrel and an earnings disappointment from Hewlett-Packard pushed the stock market to new lows for the year yesterday.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average both fell 1.2 percent, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.7 percent. Since the market's most recent rally ended in June, the S.&P. 500 has declined 7.1 percent and the Nasdaq has fallen 14.4 percent.
 In contrast to Wednesday -- when the market dropped early in response to a cautious economic outlook from John T. Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems, then bounced back and recovered most of its losses -- there was no rebound yesterday. 
 In addition to technology stocks, which continued to lead the market lower, stocks whose earnings could be hurt by slower economic growth also fell. An index of some of these stocks dropped 2.1 percent, led by Hewlett-Packard, Goodyear Tire and Rubber and United States Steel.
 A bright note came after the market had closed, when Dell Inc. announced that its quarterly profit rose 29 percent. The chief executive, Kevin B. Rollins, sounded a more bullish note on the economy than either Mr. Chambers or Carleton S. Fiorina, Hewlett's chief executive.
 The price of crude oil for September delivery jumped 1.6 percent, to a record $45.50 a barrel, as concerns increased about disruption of supplies in Iraq, where fighting has intensified; in Russia, where production by the oil giant Yukos could be reduced; and in Venezuela, where a referendum on Sunday could lead to a change in government. In intraday trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, oil rose as high as $45.75.
 Hewlett reported earnings that came in below expectations and reduced its profit forecast, which was followed by a less-than-upbeat outlook from Ms. Fiorina. Its shares plunged 13.2 percent, to $16.95.
 The news overrode some positive signs. Wal-Mart Stores beat earnings expectations in the quarter, and raised its full-year forecast. In announcing the results, the chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., said that ''although I am concerned about high oil prices, I continue to believe that growth in employment and income will lessen the impact.'' Wal-Mart's shares jumped 2 percent, to $52.65.
 In addition, the government reported yesterday that retail sales rose 0.7 percent in July. While that was less than the forecast of 1.2 percent, the government also revised June's sales upward, to a 0.5 percent decline from a 1.1 percent decline.
 And earnings for the second quarter have been very strong. Based on the 465 companies in the S.&P. 500 that have reported so far, earnings are up 25.1 percent, compared with those in the period a year earlier.
 Bernie Schaeffer, the chairman of Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati, said that he thought too many investors were counting on the strong earnings to lift stocks.
 ''Those kinds of disappointments beget incremental selling,'' he said, ''that causes people to be more disappointed.''
 In a conference call with analysts, Mr. Rollins of Dell said that he had seen no slowdown in demand from businesses and that he expected ''a strengthening corporate buying cycle'' through the third quarter. 
 That contrasted with remarks that Mr. Chambers made on Tuesday after the market closed, when he said many executives ''view the economy as growing at a modest level and are a little more cautious in their outlook than they were a quarter ago.'' 
 At the close yesterday, the Dow was down 123.73 points, or 1.2 percent, to 9,814.59, while the S.&P. 500 dropped 12.56 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,063.23. The Nasdaq fell 29.93 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,752.49. For the year, the Dow is down 6.1 percent and the S.&P. 500 is off 4.4 percent. The Nasdaq is down 12.5 percent.
 In the Treasury market, yields slipped lower and prices rose as the government auctioned a new 10-year note, which had a yield of 4.27 percent. The yield on the old 10-year note fell to 4.25 percent from 4.27 percent on Wednesday while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 5/32, to 103 30/32. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of the new 10-year note:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.838
High Yield: 4.270
Low Yield: 4.230
Median Yield: 4.253
Total applied for: $42,311,851
Accepted: $15,717,915
Noncompetitive: $119,392
Interest set at: 4 1/4

The 10-year notes mature Aug. 15, 2014.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average for 15 and 30-year mortgages since April.30-year: 5.35%15-year: 4.74%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); TIRES (67%); RETAIL SALES (66%); INTEREST RATES (59%); WAR & CONFLICT (51%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (69%); DELL INC (68%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (55%); OAO NK YUKOS (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (69%); GT (NASDAQ) (69%); GT (BRU) (69%); DELL (NASDAQ) (68%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); X (NYSE) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (69%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (69%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (69%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (69%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (68%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (54%); H LEE SCOTT JR (54%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



321 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Pushes to Lead Regional Oil Economy

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO; Brian Ellsworth contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez's plan to integrate South America's energy companies under Venezuelan leadership is promoted as a way of joining regional energy suppliers and consumers to counter Washington's influence in the oil industry.
 The plan's cornerstone, to create a transnational oil company for South America called Petroamerica, faces a host of bureaucratic and practical hurdles. But it is a central idea for a leader who, like his guiding light, the colonial-era liberator Simon Bolivar, often talks of uniting South America economically and politically.
 Venezuela's biggest buyer remains the United States, eager to consume most of this country's huge output in oil, but Mr. Chavez's government has recently stepped up its petroleum diplomacy, signing a range of supply agreements with countries large and small. 
 The government says that integrating the infrastructure for oil and gas across Latin America could provide energy more cheaply and more efficiently, and bolster the region's influence in energy. ''We should be a great republic, this South America,'' Mr. Chavez said Thursday at one of his characteristically lengthy news conferences.
 David Voght, managing director of IPD Latin America, an oil consultant in Caracas, said the plan had merit. ''I think it's a smart move. It's obvious the whole Latin American economy will do better if it acts as one,'' he said. ''It's the whole purpose of economic integration.''
 Mr. Voght added, however, that the plan was technically challenging, as well as bureaucratically difficult, and he hoped Venezuela would move forward from a business perspective. ''I do hope Venezuela will look at this regional integration from an economic perspective, more than from a political perspective,'' he said. 
 But diplomats and other oil analysts say that the plan is largely motivated by a very practical political goal for Latin America's biggest oil power: to build up a bloc of energy-dependent countries who will support Venezuela if and when Mr. Chavez's government needs votes in international bodies like the United Nations and the Organization of American States.
 Venezuela has been particularly active in using the O.A.S. to counter American criticism of Mr. Chavez's government in recent months as it tried to fend off efforts by a strident opposition movement to mount a referendum to remove him. The recall vote is taking place Sunday, and political analysts say Mr. Chavez wants to be prepared to defend the outcome abroad if there are accusations of fraud or other irregularities. 
 ''Oil had never before been used as a political tool to get votes,'' said Albis Munoz, president of Fedecamaras, the largest business group in Venezuela. ''But now we are seeing it for precisely that.''
 Roger Tissot, an energy analyst at the consulting firm PFC Energy in Washington, explained that while Venezuela had always participated in energy cooperation agreements, it is now doing so with a new goal and assertiveness.
 ''What is different now is that Chavez is using the state oil company as a mechanism to promote political objectives,'' he said. ''Chavez is using oil to promote foreign policy.''
 Mr. Chavez is trying to organize the small, scattered countries in the Caribbean -- all of which have a vote in the United Nations and the O.A.S. -- to start up a regional energy company, PetroCaribe, which would receive Venezuelan oil under preferential terms. After a meeting last month in Caracas of Venezuela and the 13 Caribbean countries that would establish PetroCaribe, the president declared that the deal would ''support our brothers in the Caribbean where small countries are having great energy difficulties and they are exploited.
 ''By whom? The transnational oil companies,'' he said.
 Mr. Chavez has already been supplying Cuba, Venezuela's closest ally, with 55,000 barrels of cut-rate oil a day in a deal that has drawn the ire of the Bush administration, which has been trying to weaken Fidel Castro's hold on power. In return, Cuba provides thousands of doctors to work in Venezuela's slums, sports trainers and military advisers.
 But the push for an integrated oil policy goes beyond these countries.
 Under a 2001 accord that sweetened a deal Venezuela already had with Central American and Caribbean countries, Venezuela offers about 30,000 barrels more a day at bargain-basement credit rates. Mr. Chavez has struck deals with Argentina to provide fuel oil in a complicated barter exchange. Caracas has also offered assistance to Bolivia as it embarks on a plan to strengthen its state-owned energy company.
 Last month, Mr. Chavez and President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia agreed to build a $200 million natural gas pipeline as part of a regional energy network that would, in time, provide gas to California and Asia. 
 Most of these plans are derided by opposition leaders, many of them former executives of the state oil company, for having blatant political purposes and few economically feasible ones. They note that Venezuela temporarily suspended oil shipments to the Dominican Republic last fall after accusing a former Venezuelan president who once lived there, Carlos Andres Perez, and others there of plotting against Mr. Chavez.
 ''Diplomacy based on oil is simply ridiculous,'' said Ignacio Layrisse, former head of exploration and production at the state oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela.
 ''Economic and market conditions, not politics, are what determine whom a country sells its oil to,'' said Mr. Layrisse, who was fired along with 18,000 other state oil workers who staged a 60-day strike that ended in February 2003. ''Venezuela's competitive advantages are in the United States and the Caribbean. There is no economic logic to be selling in Argentina.''
 But with prices for oil reaching a 21-year high this week, Venezuela is now awash in billions of dollars in revenue it would not otherwise have had and is easily able to afford playing benefactor to the region.
 ''He's trying to increase his leverage,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an industry-supported policy group in New York. ''Forty-five-dollar barrels have given him the capability to be all things to everybody, and it allows him to reach out to the region.''
 The government denies that it is trying to pander to would-be supporters. Instead, it says that the plan is part of Mr. Chavez's grand idea of giving Latin American countries more say in how oil and gas are produced and sold.
 ''The policy of our government is to create commerce among equals,'' said Ricardo Dorado, vice minister for labor and a leading economic policy maker. ''The world is multipolar, not single-country-centric, and we want to help convert Latin America so it has more economic influence.''
 He added that while Venezuela would continue to sell much of its oil to the United States, it ''should try to also find other buyers.''
 There are no estimates on how much these favorable deals cost, or could cost, Venezuela. And despite the political mileage Mr. Chavez may get from them, some of the projects, like the gas pipeline to Colombia, make business sense, analysts note. 
 Venezuela, to be sure, has been trying to find other buyers, and not just neighbors who could pay only under preferential terms. Mr. Chavez's government has been in talks with China, which has been aggressively seeking new suppliers for its rapidly growing economy.
 With his left-wing ideology -- and combative stance toward Washington -- Mr. Chavez is seen as eager to veer Venezuelan oil away from the United States. ''It's clear that if they could diversify markets away from the United States, they would do it as fast as they could,'' said a Western diplomat in Caracas who closely follows Venezuela's oil industry and insisted on not being identified. 
 Still, this country, just five days by tanker from the largest consumer of oil in the world, the United States, will not soon find another big buyer.
 The United States consumes about 1.5 million barrels of Venezuelan oil a day, out of 2.6 million the country produces. And many other countries around Latin America produce enough to satisfy their own needs, leaving little choice for Venezuela.
 ''The relationship is symbiotic,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''He needs the investment, and we need the energy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An oil field in Cabimas, Venezuela, 300 miles west of Caracas, contributes to Venezuela's total output of 2.6 million barrels a day. (Photo by Ana Maria Otero/Associated Press)
Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, talked of South America as a potential ''great republic'' at his news conference in Caracas yesterday. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, right, with Argentina's president, Nestor Kirchner, greeted workers at an oil refinery in Puerto La Cruz, Venezuela, last month. (Photo by Leslie Mazoch/Associated Press)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); REFERENDUMS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Production; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: Petroamerica

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (59%) Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (79%) Latin America; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



322 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2709 words

HEADLINE: Under Eye of U.N., Billions for Hussein In Oil-for-Food Plan

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS and JUDITH MILLER

 BODY:
Toward the end of 2000, when Saddam Hussein's skimming from the oil-for-food program for Iraq kicked into high gear, reports spread quickly to the program's supervisors at the United Nations.
 Oil industry experts told Security Council members and Secretary General Kofi Annan's staff that Iraq was demanding under-the-table payoffs from its oil buyers. The British mission distributed a background paper to Council members outlining what it called ''the systematic abuse of the program'' and described how Iraq was shaking down its oil customers and suppliers of goods for kickbacks. 
 When the report landed in the United Nations' Iraq sanctions committee, the clearinghouse for all contracts with Iraq, it caused only a few ripples of consternation. There was no action, diplomats said, not even a formal meeting on the allegations. 
 Since the fall of Mr. Hussein, the oil-for-food program has received far more scrutiny than it ever did during its six years of operation. Congress's Government Accountability Office, formerly the General Accounting Office, has estimated that the Iraqi leader siphoned at least $10 billion from the program by illicitly trading in oil and collecting kickbacks from companies that had United Nations approval to do business with Iraq. Multiple investigations now under way in Washington and Iraq and at the United Nations all center on one straightforward question: How did Mr. Hussein amass so much money while under international sanctions? An examination of the program, the largest in the United Nations' history, suggests an equally straightforward answer: The United Nations let him do it.
 ''Everybody said it was a terrible shame and against international law, but there was really no enthusiasm to tackle it,'' said Peter van Walsum, a Dutch diplomat who headed the Iraq sanctions committee in 1999 and 2000, recalling the discussions of illegal oil surcharges. ''We never had clear decisions on anything. So we just in effect condoned things.''
 As recently as February, the official position of the United Nations office that ran the program was that it learned of the endemic fraud only after it ended. But former officials and diplomats who dealt directly with the program now say the bribery and kickback racket was an open secret for years. 
 In blunt post-mortem assessments, they describe the program as a drifting ship -- poorly designed, leaking money and controlled by a Security Council that was paralyzed by its own disputes over Iraq policy.
 The program, created in 1996, was an ambitious attempt to keep up international pressure on Iraq to disarm while helping the Iraqi people survive the sanctions imposed on the Hussein government after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
 The entire effort was financed by the sale of Iraqi oil. A political compromise allowed Iraq to decide to whom it would sell its oil and from whom it would buy relief supplies. It was up to the United Nations to make sure that the price Iraq set for the oil was fair and that the proceeds were buying relief goods, and not being funneled to Mr. Hussein's coffers or being used for illicit arms.
 As the flow of money ballooned, the United Nations, with an annual budget of just $1.5 billion, was responsible for collecting and disbursing as much as $10 billion a year in Iraqi oil revenues. Even as the fraud engineered by Mr. Hussein's government became widely understood, the officials said, neither the Security Council nor United Nations administrators tried to recover the diverted money or investigate aggressively.
 The work of the Office of the Iraq Program, which administered the oil-for-food activities, and of its former director, Benon V. Sevan, is the focus of an independent United Nations investigation headed by Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman. His panel is looking into the broader charges of mismanagement and corruption in the program, as well as specific accusations that United Nations officials, including Mr. Sevan, took kickbacks. 
 Mr. Volcker announced in a news conference on Monday that his panel would need at least $30 million and probably a year to determine whether the charges are justified. Despite an elaborate system in the United Nations for overseeing oil-for-food contracts, corruption never seemed to be the chief concern of anyone involved. The United States and Britain were focused on keeping material related to illicit weapons out of Iraq. Other nations that had greater financial stakes in Iraq, including France and Russia, favored lifting the sanctions. And for the United Nations bureaucracy, diplomats said, the priority was keeping goods flowing to the Iraqi people.
 In the halls of the United Nations, the program became a battleground for the competing commercial interests and political agendas of the 15 individual nations that made up the Security Council, diplomats said. Those same nations made up the Iraq sanctions committee, which took action only by a consensus that could be blocked by any member.
 The result was a paralysis that translated into acquiescence toward matters like oil kickbacks. Annual reports of the sanctions committee reflect the limp reaction to repeated signs of corruption.
 For instance, at a meeting in 2002, an annual report said, the sanctions committee ''considered a report from the Islamic Republic of Iran on the interception of an alleged oil-smuggling attempt in its territorial waters,'' adding, ''The committee took note of this information.''
 When the committee learned from a press report in late 2001 of allegations that an Indian company was helping Iraq purchase embargoed materials for a nuclear fuel plant, the United States and Britain pressed for an investigation. Two committee members said the panel debated for months whether to urge India to investigate. ''Discussions on the matter remain inconclusive,'' the committee said in its 2002 report.
 While the diplomats were deadlocked over how to address violations of the sanctions, money and contracts continued to flow through the Office of the Iraq Program. 
 Mr. Sevan, the Cypriot who headed the program, has denied that he received any kickbacks and would only say in a statement that his office was not responsible for ferreting out corruption. Congressional investigators this year disputed that claim, citing United Nations resolutions.
 Evidence of fraud passed from office to office in a round robin ending nowhere. A former State Department official who was part of an interagency committee that reviewed trade contracts with Iraq said the group detected ''abnormalities in pricing that suggested fees and kickbacks.'' The former officials said the committee ''asked why Iraq needed to import gilded tiles for palaces, or liposuction equipment.''
 Peter Burleigh, who was the deputy American representative to the United Nations in the late 1990's, said those concerns had been relayed to Mr. Sevan's office. Mr. Sevan's office said it had passed information regarding suspicious contracts to the sanctions committee, on which the United States held a permanent seat.
 Even after the committee received reports that suppliers were padding their contracts to hide payoffs, the committee never rejected a contract because of cost, according to recent Congressional reports and former United Nations officials.
 Mr. Sevan's chief interest was to avoid deadlocks over relief supplies, said Michel Tellings, one of the three oil overseers who monitored Iraq's oil sales for the United Nations.
 ''Benon saw that he had a divided Security Council in front of him and was more concerned about getting the food in and the oil out,'' Mr. Tellings said. ''So he took a middle way and didn't investigate problems. He'd say, 'If you've got clear evidence, I've got to go to the Security Council. If it's a rumor, don't bother.' '' The lack of coordination in the program was evident in the fact that while United Nations auditors produced 55 reports on the program over the years, several diplomats on the sanctions committee said in interviews that they never even saw them.
 In the end, a complicated set of political and financial pressures kept the program ripe for corruption.Mr. van Walsum, the retired Dutch diplomat, said he sometimes suspected that his fellow diplomats were disinclined to hear about potential fraud because they were concerned about protecting the interests of friendly companies and foreign allies eager to trade with Iraq. 
 ''Everyone,'' he said, ''was living in the same glass house.''

A System Ripe for Picking
 The oil-for-food program was established to get food and medicine to the Iraqi people and to counter Mr. Hussein's claims that sanctions were solely responsible for the widespread malnutrition in Iraq after the embargo was imposed in 1990. 
 Iraq was not prohibited from buying food and medicine; it just was not using its money for that purpose. By modifying the oil sanctions, the Security Council wagered that it might gain enough leverage to force Iraq to buy more relief goods.
 On one level, the program worked well. According to Congress's General Accounting Office, the program provided food, medicine and services to 24 million Iraqis. Malnutrition rates for children fell. But along the way, the Security Council approved provisions that opened the program to corruption.
 Mr. Hussein agreed to the program in 1996 only after winning a major concession: While the United Nations would control oil revenues, Iraq could negotiate its own contracts to sell oil and to purchase supplies. That arrangement, according to the General Accounting Office, ''may have been one important factor in allowing Iraq to levy illegal surcharges and commissions.''
 Then in 1999, the Security Council removed all restrictions on the amount of oil Iraq could sell. And the Office of the Iraq Program was given power to approve contracts for a range of items -- food and medicine, agriculture and sanitation equipment -- without approval from the Council's sanctions committee.
 Meanwhile, the United States and Britain were delaying the approval of billions of dollars in contracts that they feared would provide Iraq with material or equipment that could be used for the development of weapons of mass destruction. Those ''holds'' on contracts deeply concerned the United Nations officials trying to improve Iraqi living conditions, and drew objections from members of the Security Council that favored a freer flow of commerce with Iraq.
 Countries that supported the continuation of sanctions came to see the relief aid side of the program as secondary. As Mr. van Walsum put it, ''oil for food meant oil not for W.M.D. '' 
 Facing pressure from other nations, the United States and Britain agreed to further compromises in the sanctions system.

Special Interests in Council
 Under Security Council resolutions and the oil-for-food program, all of Iraq's oil revenues were to be paid into a United Nations bank account to be used for relief goods. But Iraq's booming trade in illicit oil continued under the eyes of the Council.
 Iraq's suppliers included Russian factories, Arab trade brokers, European manufacturers and state-owned companies from China and the Middle East. In one instance, American officials in Iraq found, Syria had been prepared to kick back nearly 15 percent on its $57.5 million contract to sell wheat to Iraq. And some of the world's biggest oil traders and refineries did business with Baghdad, including Glencore, a Swiss-based trading company. 
 Different Security Council members had different levels of tolerance for the abuse, said Mr. Tellings, the former oil overseer.
 When the United States and others wanted the sanctions committee to confront Syria on oil sales, they were blocked by Russia and France, which argued that Syria should not be singled out when the Americans refused to investigate Iraq's equally lucrative oil trade with their allies, Jordan and Turkey.
 Congressional investigators have estimated that Iraq collected $5.7 billion from selling oil outside United Nations supervision, while the oil-for-food program was chronically short of money for relief supplies. 
 ''They could have done a cost analysis of at least what Saddam was selling to Syria,'' said Hans von Sponeck, a longtime United Nations diplomat who resigned as relief aid coordinator for Iraq in 1999, ''and then ask Iraq for a credit to the oil-for-food program because there was never ever money enough for the minimal needs of the people.''
 John D. Negroponte, then the American ambassador to the United Nations and now to Iraq, defended the special treatment given to Jordan and Turkey that let them pay Iraq directly for oil either in cash or barter goods. Both countries were suffering economically from the sanctions, he told a Senate committee this year.
 He demurred when asked by Senator Christopher J. Dodd who benefited from the unsupervised oil sales. But the senator said he had few doubts.
 ''Wouldn't it be a pretty good guess,'' he said, ''that they probably ended up in the pockets of Saddam Hussein and his cronies?'' Mr. Dodd asked.
 Mr. Negroponte replied, ''I just don't know, sir.''

Hussein the 10 Percenter
 The Hussein government demanded kickbacks on almost every contract it negotiated, beginning in 2000, according to documents from Iraqi ministries obtained by The New York Times this year. 
 Senior Iraqi leaders ordered ministries to notify companies that they had to pay an amount equal to 10 percent of the contract value into secret foreign bank accounts, a violation of the United Nations sanctions. To do so, Iraqi officials said, suppliers would deliberately inflate the prices of their goods.
 On a $500,000 contract for trucks, for instance, Iraq would tell the supplier to prepare a contract for $550,000, with a side agreement promising to transfer the $50,000 add-on to an Iraqi-controlled bank account.
 A shakedown plan of such magnitude -- $33 billion worth of goods were ordered by Iraq from mid-2000 until the American-led invasion last year -- did not go unnoticed. 
 ''When the 10 percent came in, companies came and asked us what to do,'' said Jacques Sarnelli, who was the commercial counselor of the French Embassy in Baghdad at the time. ''We said it's illegal, you do it at your own risk, we don't want to know about it, and we are against it.''
 From his vantage point, he said, pinpointing evidence of a kickback would have been difficult. ''It was a shadow part of the business,'' he said.
 At United Nations headquarters in New York, diplomats said the officials administering the program were more concerned about relief supplies. Mr. Sevan, who headed the Office of the Iraq Program, repeatedly appealed to the sanctions committee to speed up contracts for equipment, food and other goods. 
 Mr. Sevan's office was supposed to examine the contracts to ensure price and quality. But it was ''unclear'' how it fulfilled that responsibility, according to the General Accounting Office.
 At the sanctions committee, news of the systematic 10 percent kickback scheme prompted some public hand-wringing. Some diplomats, reacting to news reports, said they wished, but did not expect, companies to come forward and provide information.
 Ole Peter Kolby, a Norwegian diplomat who succeeded Mr. Van Walsum as chairman of the sanctions committee, expressed hope for ''hard evidence,'' but then added, ''I guess also companies that do that are not likely to tell anybody.''
 At one point, the sanctions committee outmaneuvered Mr. Hussein on the illegal surcharges the Iraqis levied on every barrel of oil. In late 2000, the oil overseers relayed complaints by major oil companies that were buying from Iraq. 
 After the committee debated for months about what to do, the United States and Britain pushed through a change in the way Iraq's oil was priced, bringing it more in line with world prices and drastically reducing the margin for fraud.
 But no attempt was made to recover the surcharge payment or to investigate which companies paid. 
 ''You couldn't ask the committee for guidance because you'd never get an answer,'' Mr. Tellings said. ''It was nobody's responsibility.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Benon V. Sevan directed the U.N. oil-for-food program for Iraq. (Photo by Jassim Mohammed/Associated Press)
(Photo by Milton Grant/Reuters)
(Photo by Ali Jarekji/Reuters)
 (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A6)Chart: ''Oil for Food, A Look Back''The United Nations oil-for-food program provided relief goods to ease the effect of U.N. sanctions on Iraqi civilians.Aug. 2, 1990Iraqi forces invade Kuwait. The U.N. Security Council condemns the invasion.Aug. 6The Security Council imposes sanctions on both Iraq and occupied Kuwait.May 1991The U.N. Inter-Agency Humanitarian Program is established to provide aid to Iraqis.Aug. 15, 1991The Security Council offers Iraq an oil-for-food deal, but Iraq declines.May 20, 1996Iraq agrees to the oil-for-food program. The Iraqi envoy, Abdul-Amir al-Anbari, left, and Boutros Boutros-Gali, then the U.N. secretary general, sign the accord.Nov. 21, 1998Iraq blocks U.N. weapons inspectors from doing their jobs. The United States and Britain threaten to bomb Iraq in retaliation.Dec. 16, 1998U.N. weapons inspectors withdraw from Iraq as the United States and Britain begin bombing.March 17, 2003The U.N. withdraws all remaining relief personnel from Iraq, as the United States and Britain prepare to attack.March 19, 2003American and British bombing begins in Iraq.May 22The U.N. Security Council adopts a resolution to lift the sanctions on Iraq and begin a six-month phase-out of the oil-for-food program.Nov. 21The oil-for-food program is terminated.(Source by United Nations Office of the Iraq Program)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXTORTION (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); DISARMAMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); TERRORISM (59%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Bribery; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Food; Terrorism

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%) United Nations; Government Accountability Office

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%) Susan Sachs; Judith Miller; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; Paul A Volcker; Benon V Sevan

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



323 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Gets In a Jab on Terror as Kerry Throws a Punch on the Economy

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN; Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Las Vegas for this article.

DATELINE: CARSON, Calif., Aug. 12 

 BODY:
In a day of dual attacks highlighting the twin fronts in the presidential campaign, Senator John Kerry likened President Bush's stewardship on the economy to Herbert Hoover's, while Vice President Dick Cheney poked fun at Mr. Kerry's promise to fight a ''more sensitive'' war on terror.
 ''Those who threaten us and kill innocents around the world do not need to be treated more sensitively,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''They need to be destroyed.'' 
 Mr. Kerry, meanwhile, seizing on last week's anemic job-growth numbers, opened a two-week offensive devoted to the economy, which his aides see as the premier issue in the election. His speech offered no new policy but repackaged his proposals as a ''Jobs First Tax Cut.''
 ''It's time America's tax code reflected America's moral code,'' he said, painting the election as a choice between tax cuts for people earning more than $200,000 a year and tax credits and changes that he promised would benefit small businesses and middle-class families. ''We should reward work, make sure Americans have a chance to work, and give them a chance to get ahead when they do work.''
 Mr. Kerry's planned message was largely overshadowed by Mr. Cheney's attack in Dayton, Ohio, where he said, ''America has been in too many wars for any of our wishes, but not a one of them was won by being sensitive.'' ''President Lincoln and General Grant did not wage sensitive warfare nor did President Roosevelt, nor Generals Eisenhower and MacArthur,'' he said. ''A 'sensitive war' will not destroy the evil men who killed 3,000 Americans and who seek the chemical, nuclear and biological weapons to kill hundreds of thousands more.''
 Though Mr. Kerry shrugged off Mr. Cheney's criticism, his campaign called the comments disingenuous, saying Mr. Cheney had taken Mr. Kerry's remark out of context. Kerry aides also pointed out that Mr. Bush used similar words to discuss the war in March when he said, ''We must be sensitive about expressing our power and influence.'' Later, at a rally in Republican-leaning southwest Oregon, Mr. Kerry offered a dig at Mr. Cheney, who had draft deferments, and Mr. Bush, who was in the National Guard. After his standard line, ''I defended our country as a young man,'' Mr. Kerry added, ''when others chose not to.''
 Mr. Bush, meanwhile, attacked Mr. Kerry for a second day for suggesting that the United States could try to reduce the number of troops in Iraq next year, and defended his tax cuts as having spurred spending.
 Warning that a rollback would leave the working class with the tab because accountants would help the wealthy find loopholes, Mr. Bush said in Las Vegas, ''Be careful about all this talk about taxing the rich.'' From Las Vegas, Mr. Bush traveled to Southern California, where he met with Nancy Reagan and attended a party fund-raiser in Santa Monica. 
 For months, each side has hewed to its perceived strength -- the Republicans playing up Mr. Bush's wartime leadership, the Democrats hammering domestic concerns -- but they are constantly pulled off message by the news. As jobs numbers in late spring and early summer hinted at a rebound, Mr. Kerry increased his focus on Iraq and terrorism while Mr. Bush talked of turning the economic corner. Now under attack for suggesting that he would reduce troops in Iraq, Mr. Kerry is highlighting the bad economic news.
 John Pitney, a government professor at Claremont-McKenna College here in Southern California, noted that this year's contest was more about foreign policy than any in a generation. ''Each side is probing the other side's vulnerabilities,'' Professor Pitney said. ''The latest jobs report indicates that the economy is a vulnerability for Republicans, and Kerry's back and forth on Iraq gives an opening to Republicans.''
 Indeed, polls show that Mr. Bush gets better grades on Iraq and terrorism then he does on the economy; the crucial question is which will be foremost in voters' minds.
 Several times in his coast-to-coast trek, Mr. Kerry has detoured from his Main Street message, addressing terror alerts or Iraq. Even on Thursday, in a speech billed as all-economy, Mr. Kerry spoke of restoring America's respect in the world.
 President Bush, too, touched both topics at a training center operated by the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, one of the few labor groups with which he has a close relationship. He ended his presentation with a lengthy list of lessons learned from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and a detailed defense of his war prosecution.
 Mostly, though, Mr. Bush pushed his initiatives to retrain workers for better-paying jobs, saying 1 million new construction workers would be needed over the next decade. He the $500 million the administration has pumped into education and training was money well spent. 
 Mr. Kerry argued that any rebate workers received had been eaten up by rising health care and tuition costs, as well as local tax increases. He seized on Mr. Bush's statement on Tuesday that ''we ought to explore seriously'' a national sales tax. 
 ''I call it one of the largest tax increases on the middle class in American history,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''We know exactly who that's going to hurt. It's going to hurt small businesses, it's going to hurt jobs.''
 In his speech and in a conference call with reporters, Mr. Kerry and his advisers described $420 billion in tax cuts -- restating plans announced over the past six months to overhaul the corporate tax code and give tax credits for education, child care, job creation, small businesses, energy and broadband technology.
 He promised these would not add to the deficit, saying they would be paid for by the rollback of the tax cuts on wealthy Americans, trimming the federal government, closing tax loopholes, extending environmental fees and auctioning the government-owned television spectrum.
 ''They're just fine with the same old failed policies of the past,'' Mr. Kerry said of the administration. ''That's why, like Herbert Hoover, they say prosperity is still just around the corner. And that's why we're still waiting to hear a plan for the next four years.''
 Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, questioned the Kerry numbers. ''He has spent his tax hike more times than anyone can keep track of,'' Mr. Schmidt said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger at a fund-raiser yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. Senator John Kerry reached past former Gov. Gray Davis to the crowd in Carson. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (88%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); FAMILY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Taxation; Terrorism; United States Economy

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); DICK CHENEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Jodi Wilgoren; Carl Hulse; John (Sen) Kerry; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



324 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ECONOMIC POLICY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Report Finds Tax Cuts Heavily Favor The Wealthy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Fully one-third of President Bush's tax cuts in the last three years have gone to people with the top 1 percent of income, who have earned an average of $1.2 million annually, according to a report by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office to be published Friday.
 The report calculated that households with incomes in that top 1 percent were receiving an average tax cut of $78,460 this year, while households in the middle 20 percent of earnings -- about $57,000 a year -- were getting an average cut of only $1,090.
 The new estimates confirm what independent tax analysts have long said: that Mr. Bush's tax cuts have been heavily skewed to the very wealthiest taxpayers. Those are also the people, however, who pay a disproportionate share of federal income taxes. 
 The calculations, which were requested by Congressional Democrats, are all but certain to intensify a central debate between Mr. Bush and Senator John F. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee.
 Mr. Bush has argued that the tax cuts provided crucial support to the economy at a time when it was mired in a recession and reeling from the effects of a stock market collapse, terrorist attacks and corporate scandals.
 Mr. Kerry has argued that the cuts were tilted so much in favor of the wealthy that they provided relatively little stimulus to the economy and set the stage for record budget deficits. Since 2001, the federal budget has deteriorated from a surplus of more than $100 billion to a deficit expected to exceed $400 billion in 2004.
 Mr. Bush's top economic priority has been to make his tax cuts permanent, rather than letting them expire at the end of this decade as they would under current law. Mr. Kerry would seek to roll back the tax cuts for households with incomes above $200,000 a year, a move his campaign estimates would save $860 billion over 10 years, and use that money in large part to pay for a vast new national health care plan.
 According to the new report from the Congressional Budget Office, about two-thirds of the benefits from the tax cuts, enacted in 2001 and 2003, went to households in the top fifth of earnings, with an average income of $203,740.
 But the report also gave Republicans support for their contention that tax reduction had brought some benefit to people in almost all income categories. People with the bottom fifth of income, for example, averaging earnings of only $16,620, saw their effective tax rate drop to 5.2 percent from 6.7. Yet because lower- and many middle-income families had been paying very little federal income tax in the first place, those in that bottom fifth of earnings received an average tax cut of only $250.
 ''It doesn't matter who you are, the report shows that you are better off now than you were before the tax cuts,'' said a House Republican aide. ''It's showing that everybody's tax burden has gone down as a result of the tax cuts.''
 The tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 reduced tax rates for people in all income brackets. But they had a disproportionate effect on people at the very highest income levels because they had already been paying a disproportionate share of total federal taxes and in part because stock dividends got a special lower rate.
 People in the very top income categories fared better by almost any measure, according to the report. The average after-tax income for people in the top 1 percent of income earners climbed 10.1 percent, while that of those in the middle 20 percent climbed 2.3 percent, and that of those in the bottom fifth only 1.6 percent.
 Put another way, people with the top 1 percent of income saw their share of the tax burden drop to 20.1 percent after the tax cuts from 21.9 percent under the old law.
 William G. Gale, a longtime tax analyst at the Brookings Institution, said the new Congressional report was consistent with his own calculations on the distribution of benefits from Mr. Bush's tax cuts. 
 ''It's not just that lower-income people are getting smaller benefits,'' Dr. Gale said. ''It's also that these tax cuts will eventually have to be paid for with either spending cuts or tax increases, and those are likely to be less progressive than the taxes they are paying now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX LAW (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (66%); TERRORISM (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (51%); SCANDALS (51%) Taxation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Congressional Budget Office 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Edmund L Andrews; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004



325 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Pension Agency Seeks To Void United Loan Pact
The federal government said that the total shortfall in United Airlines' pension plans had grown more than previously disclosed, to $8.3 billion, and it asked the judge overseeing United's bankruptcy proceedings to strike a recent loan agreement that requires the airline to suspend its contributions to the plans.
 In a motion that it filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Chicago, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation said United's loan agreement was invalid because the airline cannot fulfill it without violating the federal pension law. [Page C2.]

Trade Deficit Grows to $55.8 Billion
The United States trade deficit ballooned in June to a record $55.8 billion as imports of crude oil surged and slowing growth in Japan and Europe curbed export demand. Crude oil futures rose above $46 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid worries that supplies from Iraq, Russia or Venezuela may be disrupted. ''The economy has got a lot of basic thrust to it, but these current energy prices have created some headwinds for us,'' the Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, above, said in an interview in Boca Raton, Fla. [C14.]

EBay Buys a Stake in Craigslist
EBay, the Internet marketplace, announced that it had acquired a 25 percent stake in craigslist.org, the online community site used by millions of people to hunt for jobs, dates and places to live. [C2.]

Plaza to Be Sold for $675 Million
The Plaza Hotel, where F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald pranced in the fountain, is being sold to the New York unit of an Israeli developer for $675 million. [B6.]

Warning Issued on Cancer Drug
The government and Genentech are warning doctors that Avastin, used to treat colorectal cancer, increases a patient's risk of heart problems. [C4.]

Sales at Christie's Increase 19%
Christie's International, the auction house, said the amount it raised at auctions rose 19 percent in the first half, helped by sales of postwar and contemporary art in New York. [C3.]

Stocks Still Near Lows for the Year
Stocks ended slightly higher yesterday but stayed near lows for the year as oil prices surged, offsetting a positive outlook from the computer maker Dell. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 10.76 points, or 0.11 percent, at 9,825.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.57 points, or 0.15 percent, at 1,064.80. The Nasdaq composite index was up 4.73 points, or 0.27 percent, at 1,757.22. [C4.]

Canada's Trade Surplus at Record
Canada's merchandise trade surplus hit a record 8.6 billion Canadian dollars in June, Statistics Canada said. [C3.]

Change of Chief Shakes Conseco
Shares of Conseco fell to their lowest level since it emerged from bankruptcy last September on investor concern that the departure of its chief executive would delay the company's recovery. The shares dropped $1.41, or 8.2 percent, to $15.74. [C4.]

Indecency Charges Are Settled
Emmis Communications, the parent company of a Chicago radio station, has agreed to pay $300,000 in a deal with federal regulators to resolve complaints of indecency lodged against a disc jockey, Erich Muller. [C2.]

Black Loses Bid to Stop Suits
Conrad Black, the controlling shareholder of Hollinger International, lost an Ontario court bid to halt the company's lawsuits against him outside Canada. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,825.35 up 10.76Nasdaq composite -- 1,757.22 up 4.7310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.23% down 0.04The euro -- $1.2373 up 0.0132The dollar -- 110.57 yen down 0.32Graph tracks the daily closing of the Nasdaq Composite since January.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (87%); ART DEALERS (86%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUDGES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); FUTURES (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXPORT CONTROLS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); CANCER (68%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); STATISTICS (65%); COLORECTAL CANCER (63%); CANCER DRUGS (63%); COMPUTER MAKERS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (65%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); CRAIGSLIST INC (55%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL SINGAPORE PTE LTD (53%); CHRISTIE'S (INTERNATIONAL) SA (53%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: CNO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (65%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



326 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: More Trouble on the Turnpike

BYLINE: By Eric Dezenhall. 
Eric Dezenhall, the author of the novel ''Shakedown Beach,'' is president of Dezenhall Resources, a crisis management firm.

 BODY:
My fictional alter ego, a disgraced political operative, once suggested a motto for the Garden State: ''New Jersey: you got a problem with that?'' Maybe you have to be from Jersey (we leave out the ''New'') to appreciate the slogan. Jersey is all about confrontation; we dare you to see just how much we'll tolerate before things get ugly.
 I watched the resignation and outing of Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey with this motto in mind. I was riveted: as a novelist who has written about a New Jersey governor who tries to cover up a sexual secret; as a crisis management consultant whose day job is making bad news go away; and as a Jersey native with a working knowledge of the rules of local politics. 
 The novelist in me empathized with Mr. McGreevey's confession because, in literary terms, he executed the denouement of his ''character arc'' flawlessly. A writer agonizes to make even his villains human, so one would have to be heartless not to feel the genuine conflict in the soul of this earnest Catholic boy, the son of a Marine drill sergeant, who had devoted his life to public service.
 As a crisis manager, however, I saw only a stone-cold exercise in damage control. Mr. McGreevey was a politician in deep stew who shrewdly cut his losses. As I watched his news conference, I thought to myself: somebody's got him dead to rights. In New Jersey, no less, where it's hard enough for a guy to be sensitive, never mind gay.
 Better to step down under the aegis of postmodern bravery than launch the all-consuming -- and futile -- jihad of damage control. No, the governor's announcement wasn't just a discovery of the soul. This was a catharsis by a man who was going to get into the back of the proverbial cop car either sitting up proud or lying down bloody -- but he was getting in. Damage control is all about selecting the best of only bad options.
 What made the governor's resignation such a watershed was his flouting of a core principle of modern damage control. The objective of most people in Mr. McGreevey's position is to learn how to keep sinning and still be able to leave the arena with the prize (and public adoration). But Mr. McGreevey recognized that his redemption would require the loss of something precious. By resigning, he succeeded in defusing what would have been a death-by-a-thousand-cuts crisis. He failed, however, to keep his job.
 Yet perhaps the most important variable sealing Mr. McGreevey's fate was the setting for his drama. While New Jersey leans Democratic, these are not the Democrats of the Upper West Side or Malibu. These Democrats are still loyal to the ''Three I's'' of Garden State politics -- Ireland, Israel and Italy. These are the union boys, the tradesmen, the enlightened professionals who remember their parents cut stone in Newark and stirred great vats of soup at Campbell's in Camden.
 With the Three I's, one can weather corruption charges, as Mr. McGreevey did until this week. In Jersey politics, rolling with the punches of graft has long been a shibboleth of manhood. Being gay, however, is not. It's one thing for a governor to sell a political appointment. It's another for him to have sex with the guy he appointed. Perhaps in another state -- Vermont, maybe -- a governor could have survived being gay, but not corrupt.
 Pundits will celebrate the McGreevey confession as an example of good crisis management, which it may well be. But we should be on guard for the insipid cliche that everyone in crisis would be well served to just ''fess up.'' The coarse reality is that most of those who do the right thing from a moral perspective in sex scandals lose their jobs (the Reverends Jim Bakker and Jimmy Swaggart, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich), while artful dodgers (President Bill Clinton, Representative Henry Hyde) shuck, jive, obfuscate, spin -- and survive.
 The brutal fact of damage control is that not all clients are created equal. It's a lot easier to defend a priapic president when the Dow is shattering records than it is to defend an indicted chief executive when unemployment is rising. In any drama, context is everything.
 If, as it's often been said, politics is a contact sport in New Jersey, then James McGreevey has learned that some forms of contact are still off limits. While the media culture will probably applaud his courage under the Seinfeldian ''not that there's anything wrong with that'' umbrella of tolerance, the state's political culture will not.
 Jersey is shaped like a boomerang. No matter what you throw out there, things always seem to come back to knock you off balance. The same state that has unsightly smokestacks also possesses one of the largest freshwater marshes in the Northeast. One has to see the contradictions to get Jersey right. Jersey's capable of being unforgiving, but it can also let things go once a story is played out.
 My home state's first governor, Lord Cornbury, was said to have worn exotic dresses to work. Perhaps he entered the colonial statehouse in the early 1700's in full regalia and queried his fellow Jerseyans, ''Dost thou have a problem with that?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LITERATURE (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



327 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit, $55.8 Billion, Sets Record

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit ballooned in June to a record $55.8 billion as imports of crude oil surged and slowing growth in Japan and Europe curbed export demand.
 The gap in goods and services trade follows a $46.9 billion shortfall in May, the Commerce Department said.
 Producer prices in July rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast and a sign of the difficulties manufacturers are having passing along the surge in energy costs, Labor Department figures showed. Also, consumer confidence unexpectedly fell this month, the University of Michigan said. 
 ''The economy has got a lot of basic thrust to it, but these current energy prices have created some headwinds for us,'' Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said in an interview in Boca Raton, Fla.
 Federal Reserve policy makers said this week after raising interest rates that ''a substantial rise in energy prices'' was restraining the economy. Economists at Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley and HSBC Securities USA were among those cutting second-quarter growth estimates after the trade report. Treasury prices rose and the dollar fell.
 ''This poses some significant worries for the economic outlook,'' said Joseph Abate, a senior economist at Lehman Brothers in New York. The widening gap ''suggests that demand is being met from foreign rather than domestic production and employment.''
 Energy prices, which were 11.3 percent higher in July than in the month last year, have chipped away at incomes and have caused spending on other goods and services to slow. Crude oil futures rose to $46.58 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid worries that supplies from Iraq, Russia or Venezuela might be disrupted.
 United States exports had the biggest decline since September 2000, the Commerce Department's report showed. 
 ''We expect the decline in exports to be reversed in July since exports had been on a strongly rising trend over the prior 3 and 12 months,'' said John Ryding, chief United States economist at Bear, Stearns & Company in New York.
 The trade deficit is the amount by which imports exceed exports. Economists had expected the gap to widen to $47 billion, the median of 65 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. 
 The economy grew at a 3 percent annual rate from April through June, the slowest in more than a year, as rising energy prices led to the weakest pace of consumer spending since 2001, the Commerce Department said last month.
 Exports dropped to $92.8 billion in June. Foreign businesses bought $26.2 billion worth of capital goods from the United States, an 8.9 percent decline from the previous month. Imports rose to a record $148.6 billion, led by demand for industrial supplies and materials, the Commerce Department said.
 The value of United States oil imports rose in June to $15.3 billion from $13 billion the month before. Nonpetroleum imports rose to $108.9 billion. Imports of autos and parts fell 3.5 percent in June, to $18.7 billion. Imports of consumer goods rose 0.4 percent.
 Imports of capital goods, excluding cars, rose 5.3 percent, to $29.5 billion. Imports of industrial supplies, including chemicals, metals, and oil, surged 10 percent, to $35.2 billion.
 The Labor Department said energy prices increased 2.3 percent in July alone, the biggest rise since January. Gasoline prices increased 5.4 percent and natural gas costs rose 1.2 percent. Those prices are easily passed to consumers, who were less optimistic this month than in July.
 The University of Michigan's survey showed its preliminary index of confidence fell to 94 from 96.7 in July. The expectations index, which measures optimism about the next one to five years, declined to 84.7 from 91.2.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Balance of Trade''The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.June 2004Balance: -$55.82Imports: 148.64Exports: 92.82Graph tracks imports and exports from January 2003 to June 2004.Graph tracks deficit (12-month moving average) from January 2003 to June 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Producer Prices''Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted.July: +0.1%June: -0.3May: +0.8Graph tracks Index of finished goods prices from February 2003 to July 2004.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); TRENDS (89%); FUTURES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); STATISTICS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%) United States Economy; Records and Achievements; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Producer Price Index; Income; United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Gas (Fuel); Futures and Options Trading; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); United States Economy

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Commerce Department; University of Michigan; European Union

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Japan; Europe; Iraq; Russia; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



328 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Lights Out in the Dominican Republic

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
The temperatures within Luis Eduardo Aybar Hospital, one of this city's largest public surgery centers, sometimes climb above 100 degrees, making its operating rooms feel like saunas. But when the lights flicker on and off, and then stay off for hours, the doctors truly begin to sweat. 
 ''I never thought I'd be practicing my trade by candlelight,'' said Dr. Cesar Jesurum, a cardiologist who now does just that and frequently uses the glow from his cellphone to navigate the hospital's mazelike corridors. Backup generators often fail to operate during blackouts for lack of expensive diesel fuel.
 ''We learned to live without air-conditioning long ago, but electricity is another matter,'' he said. ''This is absolutely harrowing.'' 
 While the medical staff manages to care for many patients, some complicated operations have had to be postponed. 
 A crescendo of blackouts is plaguing the Dominican Republic, a nation of 8.8 million that is festering while the government and foreign-owned electricity companies feud. 
 Its economy, which until recently was the Caribbean's most robust, has been thrown into upheaval in the last year after a banking crisis depleted resources needed to keep the nation's lights on.
 President Hipolito Mejia, who lost a re-election bid in May, has shown little inclination to confront the issue, attributing much of the blame for the power failures to Leonel Fernandez, who returns to the presidency on Aug. 16 after a four-year hiatus. Much of the nation's generating system is owned by foreign investors, who bought their stakes during Mr. Fernandez's previous term in the late 1990's.
 ''After we take office it will be up to us,'' Mr. Fernandez, a lawyer, said recently.
 A team from the International Monetary Fund, which suspended a $600 million aid package to the Dominican Republic last year, arrived in Santo Domingo this month to assess both the situation and whether Mr. Fernandez can quickly assemble a cabinet that can address it effectively, people involved in the negotiations said. 
 He has already named an economist, Hector Valdez Albizu, as the new president of the central bank, and has appointed other economic officials. 
 The Mejia administration has been engaged in a dispute with the American companies -- including the AES Corporation, Enron and Goldman Sachs -- that control much of the nation's electricity industry. Mr. Mejia has repeatedly called for their executives to be deported, describing the industry in a recent speech as a ''mess'' and a ''disaster.'' 
 The companies, in turn, claim they are owed at least $300 million, much of it from the government itself. 
 ''It's always a problem when things get personal,'' Julian Nebreda, the Venezuela-born executive who oversees AES's operations in the Dominican Republic, said in an interview. 
 In recent months, the companies, led by AES, which is based in Arlington, Va., have occasionally cut off electricity to the nation's distribution grid, contending that because the government has not paid its bills, they cannot import the natural gas and oil needed to fuel their operations. That decision has placed the companies at the center of a political and economic maelstrom over blackouts lasting as long as 20 hours a day. 
 In a country that is already reeling from an economic downturn brought on by the government's handling of a string of bank failures in the last year, protests over the blackouts are becoming a regular feature of daily life. 
 In one recent protest in front of AES's headquarters in Santo Domingo, for instance, community organizations carried signs painted with skulls and crossbones describing the company as a pirate. Some of the protests are turning violent. In the northern city of Santiago this month, for example, a policeman was shot in the leg after residents blocked roadways with burning tires and trees. 
 Dealing with the blackouts, meanwhile, is turning into a national obsession. Similar to the way people in neighboring Caribbean countries follow the fluctuating value of their currencies against the dollar, Dominicans measure the number of ''megavatios,'' or megawatts, available daily on the nation's electricity grid. 
 Using figures from a government agency overseeing the electricity industry, newspapers here fill their columns each day with reports on the amount of electricity flowing toward consumers, often noting that less than half of the Dominican Republic's demand of about 1,800 megawatts is being met. 
 ''We're dealing with the consequences of one bad decision after another in the reaction to this crisis,'' said Bernardo Vega, an economist and a former ambassador to the United States. ''Things would have been bad enough without a confluence of factors, from the rising price of oil to a devaluation of the currency that have put the squeeze on us.'' 
 Analysts trace the electricity industry's difficulties to the 1990's, when the Dominican Republic was one of the fastest-growing economies in Latin America with export-oriented manufacturers and a vibrant tourism industry, and international energy companies invested heavily to meet the growing demand for electricity. 
 Now a slow-burning financial crisis is contributing to the blackouts. Discoveries of fraud at several of the nation's largest banks last year and the government's decision to compensate depositors for potential losses threw the economy into a tailspin. That bailout cost the government an amount equivalent to about a fifth of gross domestic product, making a policy of subsidizing electricity for poor residents increasingly untenable. That, in turn, led the central government to clash with foreign power companies over late payments. 
 ''We have worked closely with the government over the past two years,'' said Mariella Mahan, regional manager for the Caribbean at Prisma Energy. ''However, the bottom line is that there are insufficient funds in the sector to meet generating costs.'' 
 Prisma Energy is a unit of Enron that controls many of its parent company's flawed forays into international energy markets, including a generator in the Dominican Republic that has been idle for much of the past year. 
 ''High levels of losses, poor collection records and subsidized tariffs are the key elements,'' Ms. Mahan said. 
 Enron, which is hoping to emerge from bankruptcy protection this year, is seeking a buyer for its Dominican assets, as are AES and Goldman Sachs, the investment bank which became exposed to the electricity crisis last October after acquiring Cogentrix of Charlotte, N.C., a power company with a large presence in the Dominican Republic. Ed Canaday, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York, said Cogentrix was trying to work with the Dominican government to resolve the crisis. 
 Adding to the sense of chaos associated with the blackouts, gunmen on a motorbike in June shot and killed Craig Hiserote, the general manager of Cogentrix's power plant about 40 miles east of Santo Domingo. Authorities investigating the murder said, however, that it was a contract killing done at the behest of Mr. Hiserote's Dominican wife and not related to tension over power failures. 
 With American power companies declaring their wariness to continue operating in the Dominican Republic, the only foreign utility that seems to have pried itself away from the situation with any degree of success is Union Fenosa of Spain. In a move that confounded foreign creditors, Mr. Mejia's government agreed last September to buy a 50 percent stake in two ailing electricity distributors that the government sold to Union Fenosa in 1999.
 The decision, which effectively renationalized the concerns, was what led to the I.M.F.'s suspension of the $600 million aid package, as well as to the worsening of a financial crisis that resulted in $2 billion of capital flight last year and a further weakening of the peso, according to Standard & Poor's. (Showing their ire over the transaction, many Dominicans refer to the deal as ''Union Penosa,'' a play on the company's name and the Spanish word for ''painful.'') 
 Despite the I.M.F.'s action, the World Bank, sensing that the electricity crisis was deepening last February, approved a $100 million loan to help the Dominican government pay for electricity. 
 By June, however, after disbursing $50 million of the loan, the bank suspended the remainder until either the outgoing or incoming administration could come up with a cohesive plan for paying the electricity bills. 
 In the meantime, some residents are better prepared than others to deal with the blackouts. Most wealthy Dominicans have backup generators to provide electricity when the lights go out, transforming Santo Domingo into a crazy-quilt upon nightfall with leafier districts brightly lit up while most of the city smolders in the dark. 
 Then there are those who illicitly connect their homes or businesses to the grid to siphon off what current might be derived from the ailing system, transforming the rooftops of some neighborhoods into a labyrinth of wires. Jesus Nivar, a 40-year-old mechanic in a working-class neighborhood near the Luis Eduardo Aybar Hospital, justified this approach.
 ''It's not robbery when the desired object is hardly even there,'' Mr. Nivar said over the blare of Spanish-language rap music from a radio powered by an illegal electric connection at his garage.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a Santo Domingo resident, Angela Tejada and her son, Ulises, seek relief in her air-conditioned car. At right, a natural gas plant outside Santo Domingo. (Photo by Walter Astrada/Associated Press)
(Photo by Walter Astrada/Associated Press, for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Because of the Dominican energy crisis, babies in the maternity ward at Our Lady of Grace Hospital in Santo Domingo are kept warm by reading lamps instead of incubators. (Photo by Walter Astrada/Associated Press)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER FAILURES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); BANK FAILURES (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CARDIOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); POLITICS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); DEPORTATION (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); TRENDS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); DIESEL FUEL (55%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Electric Light and Power; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: AES CORP (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Aes Corp; Enron Corp; Goldman Sachs Group

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Hipolito (Pres) Mejia; Simon Romero; Leonel Fernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Dominican Republic

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



329 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Shares Edge Up, Aided by Dell but Hurt by Oil Prices

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks ended slightly higher yesterday, but stayed near lows for the year as oil prices surged past $46 a barrel, offsetting a positive outlook from the computer maker Dell.
 Dell, the world's largest producer of personal computers, rose more than 4 percent after it gave a better-than-expected third-quarter outlook. But countering this was another peak in the price of oil. United States crude oil has hit new highs for 10 out of the last 11 sessions. A fire at an Indiana refinery and worries over possible supply disruptions in Iraq and Venezuela were behind yesterday's increase. 
 Early momentum fizzled out as the day wore on, although all the indexes managed to close in positive territory. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 10.76 points, or 0.11 percent, at 9,825.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.57 points, or 0.15 percent, at 1,064.80. The Nasdaq composite index was up 4.73 points, or 0.27 percent, at 1,757.22.
 On Thursday, blue chips closed at their lowest level this year and the Nasdaq slumped to its worst since last August after poor news from the technology sector and a jump in oil prices.
 ''It is a combination of the summer, lower-than-typical liquidity and all sorts of headline issues -- for energy and for the economy on down,'' said Jack Caffrey, equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank. 
 For the week, the Dow rose 0.12 percent and the S.&P. 500 advanced 0.08 percent, while the Nasdaq fell 1.11 percent. 
 Trading was moderate, with 1.2 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, below the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. About 1.3 billion shares were traded on the Nasdaq, below the 1.69 billion daily average last year.
 Advancers outnumbered decliners on the Big Board by about three to two. On Nasdaq, decliners and advancers were about equal.
 September crude rocketed to $46.65 a barrel before nudging back to settle at $46.50, its first close ever above $46. 
 High oil prices dampened stock prices as investors worry about the impact on consumers' wallets and companies' profit margins. But energy stocks benefited.
 Exxon Mobil rose 36 cents, to $44.92; ChevronTexaco gained $1.23, to $95.60; and ConocoPhillips rose 90 cents, to $73.47.
 On the economic front, the trade deficit widened much more than expected in June, hitting a record $55.8 billion, the government said. Consumer confidence deteriorated in early August, reversing July's increases, as expectations for the economy worsened, according to a survey from the University of Michigan. 
 Dell was the star of the technology sector, rising $1.39, to $34.51, after its upbeat report, which was in contrast to several gloomy forecasts by other bellwether technology companies this week. Electronics and testing equipment maker Agilent Technologies also rose, a day after it posted a quarterly profit in contrast to a loss a year earlier. Its shares gained 84 cents, or 4.27 percent, to $20.52. 
 But some technology stocks faced selling, like Analog Devices, which makes chips for cellphones and said revenue growth was slower than it expected. Analog Devices fell 26 cents, to $33.57. 
 Cisco nudged higher after Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to overweight from equal weight. Cisco was up 7 cents to $17.86. But Hewlett-Packard fell a day after it posted quarterly earnings well below forecasts. Shares were down 45 cents, to $16.50 yesterday.
 In the Treasury market, the price of the 10-year note rose 11/32, to 99 27/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.23 percent, from 4.25 Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%); FIRES (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); CHEVRON CORP (51%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); CVX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



330 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Trade Surplus Rises

BYLINE: By Ian Austen (NYT)

 BODY:
Canada's merchandise trade surplus hit a record 8.6 billion Canadian dollars ($6.5 billion) in June, Statistics Canada said. The surplus, which was well above the forecasts of economists, resulted from increased demand worldwide as well as the economic recovery in the United States, the agency said. 
The government agency said that exports from Canada rose 4.4 percent during June. At the same time, imports fell 3.7 percent. Much of the decline in imports reflected reduced imports of machinery and other equipment, particularly from the United States. Over all, Canadian exports to the United States rose 2.9 percent while purchases from the United States declined 3.6 percent. Canada's trade surplus with the United States stood at 10.7 billion Canadian dollars, its second-highest level in history. Ian Austen (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); STATISTICS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



331 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela's Fake Democrat

BYLINE: By Bernard Aronson. 
Bernard Aronson, assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs from 1989 to 1993, works for a private equity firm that manages investments in Venezuela and elsewhere.

 BODY:
The most important struggle for democracy in the Western Hemisphere is now playing out in Venezuela, one of Latin America's oldest continuing democracies, and a leading supplier of oil to the United States. 
 The immediate forum for this struggle is a referendum tomorrow on whether to recall President Hugo Chavez. Mr. Chavez -- a former army colonel who led a failed coup attempt in 1992 -- was elected on a populist platform in 1998, and, after rewriting Venezuela's Constitution, again in 2000. 
 In an interesting twist, the referendum that could unseat Mr. Chavez, is, itself, part of the populist restructuring of Venezuela's democratic institutions that he has carried out-- including creating a unicameral legislature and renaming the country the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Nevertheless, when citizen groups petitioned to hold a referendum, the Chavez-dominated courts and National Electoral Commission forced them to collect millions more signatures than necessary -- and then to recertify many of those signatures. While the process dragged on, public employees who signed the referendum petition were fired, demoted and denied national identity cards and passports. Only after pressure from the Organization of American States and former President Jimmy Carter did the commission agree to let the referendum proceed. 
 There is no question that the struggle in Venezuela is rooted in the country's past. The corruption, crime, poverty and inequality under 40 years of rule by two political parties fueled a wave of popular disgust with traditional politics and a deep desire for change that carried Mr. Chavez to the presidency. But the struggle also marks a shift of sorts, one that highlights disturbing trends across Latin America. 
 Like former President Alberto Fujimori of Peru, Mr. Chavez represents a new breed of Latin autocrat -- a leader who is legitimately elected but then uses his office to undermine democratic checks and balances and intimidate political opponents. 
 Two months ago, for example, the Chavez-controlled National Assembly added 11 justices to the Supreme Court, and changed the requirement for confirmation from two-thirds of legislators to a simple majority, guaranteeing Mr. Chavez control of the judiciary. As a result, should Mr. Chavez lose the referendum, the court is likely to ratify his stated intention to run for president in the election to fill his vacancy, even though a disinterested reading of the Venezuelan Constitution suggests that he would be ineligible.
 Mr. Chavez's record of subverting democracy doesn't stop there. Though much of the Venezuelan media remains in private hands and is clearly allied with the opposition, it is slowly being strangled by regulations that deny it access to hard currency. And, whenever Mr. Chavez wishes, he decrees that all private television and radio stations, along with the state-owned news media, carry his speeches live. 
 What's more, his government has manipulated the criminal justice system to thwart political opponents. Henrique Capriles Radonski, a leader of Justice First, a reformist political party, and the elected mayor of the Baruta district of Caracas, languishes in jail on a clearly fraudulent charge of fomenting a riot. Maria Corina Machado, a director of Sumate, a civic group allied with the opposition, is being prosecuted on charges equivalent to treason because her organization accepted a grant of more than $50,000 from the National Endowment for Democracy, which is financed in part by Congress, to educate Venezuelans about their voting rights. Yet only one Venezuelan has been arrested in the killings of more than 25 opposition demonstrators in clashes with supporters of Mr. Chavez over the last three years.
 The outcome of the referendum remains in doubt because Mr. Chavez has been spending state oil revenues freely and registering new citizens and voters en masse. (At the same time, signers of the recall petition have found their customary voting places moved at the last minute.) Moreover, Mr. Chavez retains passionate support among Venezuela's poor. 
 The strength of populist appeal in Venezuela reflects another shift in Latin America, particularly in the Andean nations: Dispossessed populations, long locked out of their nation's economic and political life by class, economic or racial barriers, are now demanding a political voice. In Bolivia, last year, violent protests by Aymara Indians, angry over efforts to export gas through Chile, a longtime enemy, claimed more than 80 lives and subsided only after President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada fled the country. 
 Like the Bolivian demonstrators, Mr. Chavez's core supporters barely subsist in the informal economy. They have been convinced by their would-be leaders, and, often, by their own experience, that the reforms needed to compete in the global economy represent a new form of exploitation. 
 A new agenda is needed that offers upward mobility and political empowerment to the hemisphere's poor. This would require not only a deepening of structural economic reforms and fiscal discipline, but a new focus on giving the poor title to their land, credits for microenterprise, easing the transition for small enterprises from the informal to the formal economy, cracking down on tax evasion and official corruption, and ending the subsidization of higher education at the expense of primary and secondary schooling. 
 Sadly, the hemisphere's political leaders, north and south, have not found a language of political and economic reform that speaks to the region's impoverished masses -- particularly the indigenous populations -- to counteract the siren song of populism and demagoguery. Nor have they developed the political tools or the will to confront the slow strangulation of democratic liberties by elected leaders such as is now under way in Venezuela. If they don't do so soon, expect more leaders like Hugo Chavez: men who campaign to consolidate their power and inveigh against the oligarchs while their people descend deeper into poverty.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (92%); PETITIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); COUPS (71%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); TRENDS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (68%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (67%); CORRUPTION (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); JIMMY CARTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



332 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2615 words

HEADLINE: Out of Spotlight, Bush Overhauls U.S. Regulations

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
April 21 was an unusually violent day in Iraq; 68 people died in a car bombing in Basra, among them 23 children. As the news went from bad to worse, President Bush took a tough line, vowing to a group of journalists, ''We're not going to cut and run while I'm in the Oval Office.'' 
 On the same day, deep within the turgid pages of the Federal Register, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration published a regulation that would forbid the public release of some data relating to unsafe motor vehicles, saying that publicizing the information would cause ''substantial competitive harm'' to manufacturers. 
 As soon as the rule was published, consumer groups yelped in complaint, while the government responded that it was trying to balance the interests of consumers with the competitive needs of business. But hardly anyone else noticed, and that was hardly an isolated case. 
 Allies and critics of the Bush administration agree that the Sept. 11 attacks, the war in Afghanistan and the war in Iraq have preoccupied the public, overshadowing an important element of the president's agenda: new regulatory initiatives. Health rules, environmental regulations, energy initiatives, worker-safety standards and product-safety disclosure policies have been modified in ways that often please business and industry leaders while dismaying interest groups representing consumers, workers, drivers, medical patients, the elderly and many others.
 And most of it was done through regulation, not law -- lowering the profile of the actions. The administration can write or revise regulations largely on its own, while Congress must pass laws. For that reason, most modern-day presidents have pursued much of their agendas through regulation. But administration officials acknowledge that Mr. Bush has been particularly aggressive in using this strategy.
 ''There's been more federal regulations, more regulatory notices, than previous administrations,'' said Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman, though he attributed much of that to the new rules dealing with domestic security.
 Scott McClellan, the chief White House spokesman, said of the changes, ''The president's common-sense policies reflect the values of America, whether it is cracking down on corporate wrongdoing or eliminating burdensome regulations to create jobs.''
 Some leaders of advocacy groups argue that the public preoccupation with war and terrorism has allowed the administration to push through changes that otherwise would have provoked an outcry. Carl Pope, the executive director of the Sierra Club, says he does not think the administration could have succeeded in rewriting so many environmental rules, for example, if the public's attention had not been focused on national security issues.
 ''The effect of the administration's concentration on war and terror has been to prevent the public from focusing on these issues,'' Mr. Pope said. ''Now, when I hold focus groups with the general public and tell them what has been done, they exclaim, 'How could this have happened without me knowing about it?'''
 The administration has often been stymied in its efforts to pass major domestic initiatives in Congress. Even when both houses have been under Republican control, Senate Democrats, using parliamentary rules, have been able to block legislation eagerly sought by the White House and business groups, including bills on energy, bankruptcy and medical malpractice. So officials have turned to regulatory change.
 Chad Colton, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget, which approves all new regulations, defends the administration's handling of new rules, saying: ''The process is very open, very transparent. Some regulations we post get hundreds of comments, even thousands.'' Mr. Colton acknowledged that most comments came from industry or from public interest groups. ''But those groups represent consumers.''
 Clarence Ditlow, who directs one of those public interest groups, the Center for Auto Safety, said: ''People in my line of work are frustrated. We try to work harder. But the amount of media attention and public attention to consumer issues has gone way, way down since 9/11.''
 Stuart M. Butler, senior domestic policy analyst for the conservative Heritage Foundation, while agreeing that the wars ''push a lot of other issues off the page, literally and figuratively,'' said, ''It cuts both ways.'' The White House ''also can't get traction on issues they care about, like Social Security reform, because of all the noise from the war in Iraq.''
 Bush administration officials and their allies say they use regulations because new laws are not needed for many of the changes they have made and going to Congress every time would be needlessly complicated. But Representative David R. Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat who is the ranking minority member of the Appropriations Committee, said regulatory changes did not benefit from the ''checks and balances and oversight'' that Congress provides.
 New regulations first appear as notices of proposed rule-making in the Federal Register, which is published every weekday. Generally, government officials and others directly concerned with government business read this dense publication.
 The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration published the new rule on the public release of auto-safety information on July 28, 2003, but outside the industry hardly anyone took notice. In the following months, allies of tire manufacturers and automakers flooded the agency with comments, and all of them ''contended that the release of early warning data is likely to cause substantial competitive harm,'' the agency said. At the same time, consumer groups argued that the data ''should be released because it is important to the identification of potential defects,'' the agency added.
 When the agency published a revised final rule on April 21, 2004, it exempted from public release warranty-claim information, industry reports on safety issues and consumer complaints, among other data, saying that releasing that information would cause ''substantial competitive harm.'' 
 Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy group, filed suit, saying consumers needed the data to inform themselves about unsafe vehicles and tires. But Ray Tyson, the chief spokesman for the highway safety agency, said: ''The suggestion that the American consumer is missing out is off the mark. I can't believe this information would be of much interest to the general public.''
 A Pro-Business Tilt
 The overall regulatory record shows that the Bush administration has heeded the interests of business and industry. Like the Reagan administration, which made regulatory reform a priority, officials under Mr. Bush have introduced new rules to ease or dismantle existing regulations they see as cumbersome. Some analysts argue that the Bush administration has introduced rules favoring industry with a dedication unmatched in modern times.
 ''My thoughts go back to Herbert Hoover,'' said Robert Dallek, the presidential historian. ''No president could have been more friendly to business than Hoover'' until the Bush administration.
 While John D. Graham, administrator of information and regulatory affairs at the Office of Management and Budget, does not dispute the administration's pro-business tilt, he said there had been notable exceptions, which his office approved when government officials ''provided adequate scientific and economic justification.''
 Examples, Mr. Graham added, include ''stricter fuel-saving rules for S.U.V.'s'' and ''a 90-percent reduction in diesel-engine exhaust,'' as well as ''mandatory criteria for the lifesaving performance of side-impact air bags'' in cars. 
 But examples of countervailing, business-friendly changes abound, some that broke through the flak thrown up from the wars, and others that remain little known. 
 The administration, at the request of lumber and paper companies, gave Forest Service managers the right to approve logging in federal forests without the usual environmental reviews. A Forest Service official explained that the new rule was intended ''to better harmonize the environmental, social and economic benefits of America's greatest natural resource, our forests and grasslands.''
 In March of 2003, the Mine Safety and Health Administration published a proposed new regulation that would dilute the rules intended to protect coal miners from black-lung disease. The mine workers union called the new rules ''extremely dangerous,'' while a mine safety administration official contended, ''We are moving on toward more effective prevention of black-lung disease.''
 In May 2003, the Bush administration dropped a proposed rule that would have required hospitals to install facilities to protect workers against tuberculosis. Hospitals and other industry groups had lobbied against the change, saying that it would be costly and that existing regulations would accomplish many of the same aims. 
 But workers unions and public health officials argued that the number of tuberculosis cases had risen in 20 states and that the same precautions that were to have been put into place for tuberculosis would also have been effective against SARS. 
 The next month, the Department of Labor, responding to complaints from industry, dropped a rule that required employers to keep a record of employees' ergonomic injuries. Labor unions complained that without the reporting, it would be difficult to identify dangerous workplaces. But the department, in a statement, argued that the records ''would not provide additional information useful to identifying possible causes or methods to prevent injury.'' 
 The administration's 2004 budget proposed to cut 77 enforcement and related positions from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, while adding two new staff members whose jobs would be to help industry comply with agency rules. Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao explained to a House committee that the agency would ''continue to target inspections based on the worst hazards and the most dangerous workplaces.'' As the budget proposal was announced, President Bush and other senior officials focused most of their remarks on the large increases proposed for defense and domestic security.

A Case of Tired Truckers
 In one little-known case, litigants say the administration managed to turn a Congressional mandate on its head. In 1995, the National Transportation Safety Board issued a startling study on fatal truck accidents. Thousands of people die on the highways each year in collisions with heavy trucks. The board studied 107 crashes in which the truck driver survived and found that more than half resulted from truck-driver fatigue. Nineteen of the truckers admitted to falling asleep at the wheel. 
 As a result of that report, Congress the same year ordered the government to revise driving-hour rules for truckers. Under regulations unchanged since 1939, truckers could drive 10 hours at a stretch and then had to rest for eight hours. The rules, Congress said, were to be changed to ''reduce fatigue-related incidents and increase driver alertness.'' At that time, both the Senate and the House were under Republican control, and lawmakers began debating what to do.
 The truck-related accident death toll hit a new high in 1997; 5,398 people died. Congress went further in 1999 and created a new federal agency, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, and the Clinton administration set a goal of reducing truck-related accident fatalities by half over the following 10 years.
 Consumer and driver-safety groups, including Public Citizen and Parents Against Tired Truckers, started lobbying the new agency to shorten the number of hours drivers could stay behind the wheel. But trucking industry officials argued that shorter shifts would disrupt delivery schedules, which in turn would raise prices on thousands of products delivered by truck.
 Last year, the Department of Transportation finally issued a new rule, saying in a prepared statement that it would ''save hundreds of lives'' and ''protect billions in commerce.'' The change would increase allowable driving time from 10 hours without a break to 11 hours. But after 11 hours, drivers would have to take 10 hours off instead of eight.
 Trucking companies said they were satisfied with the rule while truck drivers deplored it, saying the added hours of driving time would increase driver fatigue.
 Public Citizen and the other safety groups filed suit, saying the new rule, in all its detail, actually increased driving hours per week by 30 percent. The suit is pending. Joan Claybrook, the president of Public Citizen, said the new rule ''does nothing positive, it does a lot of negative, and it's a big waste of four years' effort.''

Courts Have Their Say
 For all the ambition behind the campaign to remake the government's regulatory structure, courts have forced the administration to pull back a striking number of initiatives.
 Last August, for example, the administration relaxed its clean-air rules by allowing thousands of corporations to upgrade their plants without having to install expensive pollution-control equipment, saying that would allow plants to modernize more easily, leading to greater efficiency and lower consumer costs.
 Utilities had lobbied for change; environmental groups filed suit. In December, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit blocked the rule, at least temporarily, indicating that the court doubted the administration had authority to modify the Clean Air Act by regulation.
 In a case involving air-conditioners, the Department of Energy announced in May 2002 that it would weaken a standard issued during the Clinton administration to make home air-conditioners more efficient. The department did order an efficiency increase, but less than had been mandated under Mr. Clinton. An Energy Department official said: ''This is not a rollback. It is an increase'' in efficiency.
 Major air-conditioner manufacturers had lobbied against the improved efficiency standard, saying the new models would be unaffordable. Right away, the attorneys general from seven states, including New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and California, filed suit to restore the old standard. In January of this year, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, ruled that the Bush administration did not have the legal right to revise the efficiency rule.
 While the administration has had some successes in relaxing environmental rules, other changes have been stymied by the courts. A federal judge blocked a plan by the Department of the Interior to allow an energy company to drill for oil at one proposed location, adjacent to the Arches National Park in Utah, saying the government had not adequately considered the environmental impact of the plan. And an Interior Department judicial agency blocked a plan to develop the Powder River Basin in Wyoming. 
 Still, the administration is pleased with its overall record of regulatory change. Mr. Graham, the budget office official, eagerly acknowledged that the regulatory tilt had been toward business. ''The Bush administration has cut the growth of costly business regulations by 75 percent, compared to the two previous administrations,'' he said. 
 Representative Obey said he believed most Americans remained unaware of many of the changes. 
 ''Most people are busy just trying to make a living,'' he said. ''And with all the focus on Iraq and bin Laden, it gives the administration an opportunity to take a lot of loot out the back door without anybody noticing.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the Bush administration's use of regulatory initiatives rather than legislation to pursue its agenda misspelled the given name of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration spokesman who said information on motor vehicle safety exempted from public release under a 2004 regulation would be of little interest to the general public. He is Rae, not Ray, Tyson. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: John D. Graham, shown in 2001, doesn't deny the administration's business tilt, but cited exceptions. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart: ''Calculating the Costs of New Regulation''The Bush administration has imposed lower costs on industry through regulation than any other administration since the government began keeping records in 1987. While some of the costs of regulation are borne by state and local governments, about 90 percent of the burden falls on private companies.Graph tracks the costs on industry through regulation since 1987.Ronald ReaganAverage: $8.1 billionGeorge BushAverage: $8.5 billionBill ClintonAverage: $6.2 billionPresident BushAverage: $1.6 billion(Source by Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget)(pg. A10)Chart: ''Regulatory Proposals''Some examples of regulatory actions proposed by the Bush administration, and when they were first circulated.DREDGING AND FILLING WETLANDSJanuary 2002Eased requirements for replacing wetlands affected by development or mining.MOUNTAINTOP MININGMay 2002Proposed making it easier for mining companies to dump dirt and rubble into rivers and streams.TIRE-PRESSURE MONITORINGJune 2002Chose the weaker of two proposed standards to warn drivers of underinflated tires.MEDICAL PRIVACY STANDARDSAugust 2002Required that health care providers inform patients but not obtain consent before sharing medical records.COAL DUST STANDARDSMarch 2003Increased the allowable level of coal dust in mines.MEDIA OWNERSHIP RULESJune 2003Increased the number of television stations and other media outlets that companies can own.OLESTRA LABELINGAugust 2003Dropped a requirement that labeling of food containing olestra, a fat substitute, include a warning of health risks.NURSING HOME CARESeptember 2003Reduced training requirement for workers who feed nursing home patients.MERCURY EMISSIONSDecember 2003Revoked a determination that mercury emissions are ''hazardous'' and put in place a trading program for emissions.ROADLESS AREAS ON FOREST LANDJuly 2004Abandoned a Clinton-era rule that put nearly 60 million acres of national forest largely off limits to new roads for logging.(Sources by Center for American Progress, OMB Watch)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WRITERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); JOB CREATION (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



333 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Kerry, in the Northwest, Again Cross Paths

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN and CARL HULSE; Thomas Crampton contributed reporting from Flint, Mich., for this article.

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Aug. 13 

 BODY:
President Bush and Senator John Kerry campaigned on Friday a few miles apart here in a state decided by the slimmest of margins four years ago, tangling over taxes in light of a new report that Mr. Kerry said bolsters his argument that Mr. Bush's tax cut mostly benefited the wealthy.
 While Mr. Bush wielded the power of incumbency with a promise to ask Congress for $15 million to begin a long-sought deepening of 104 miles of the Columbia River, Mr. Kerry culminated his 15-day, 4,971.12-mile cross-country trek on the banks of the Willamette with a crowd that the fire marshal estimated at 40,000. Local television stations split their screens as the two men, mindful of the mass of independent voters here, each made stops in hostile territory in swings through this swing state.
 ''Over the last four years, the burden of taxes has shifted from the wealthy to the middle class,'' Mr. Kerry said of the report released Friday by the Congressional Budget Office, careful to call it independent and not belonging to Democrats or Republicans. ''That is wrong, that is morally wrong, and it's wrong from a policy point of view in America, and we have to change it.'' 
 He used hotter language in a written statement, saying, ''This is the straw that will break back of middle-class families,'' and adding that Mr. Bush was ''deliberately stacking the deck against them.''
 Mr. Bush did not directly address the report, which found that one-third of the tax cuts over the last three years had benefited those with incomes in the top 1 percent, whose households received an average cut of $78,460, compared with $1,090 for those in the middle 20 percent. But he insisted that Mr. Kerry's proposal to rescind the tax breaks that went to the wealthy would hurt the average worker and stall the economy.
 ''We are not going to let him wreck that economy by running up our taxes,'' Mr. Bush told a packed high-school gym packed in suburban Beaverton, Ore.
 His aides dismissed the budget office report as biased because it was framed by the Democrats who requested it. Scott McCellan, the White House press secretary, said that ''the largest percentage reductions are going to those in the middle and lower-income tax brackets,'' while Steve Schmidt, the campaign spokesman, said he was ''delighted to have a tax argument'' with Mr. Kerry.
 ''The president has lowered taxes for every American,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''John Kerry has voted to increase taxes 98 times, and he voted against tax cuts 126 times.''
 Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, both responded directly for the first time to Vice President Dick Cheney's harsh words the day before about Mr. Kerry's promise to wage a ''more sensitive'' war on terror. 
 After a questioner in Springfield, Ore., said he was wary of using the word ''sensitive because Bush has screwed that word up,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''I don't think it's very sensitive to have a vice president who has secret meetings with polluters,'' adding, ''I don't think it's very sensitive, except to the wealthy, to shift the tax burden to the average American.''
 At the same time, Mr. Edwards told supporters in Flint, Mich., that Mr. Cheney had ''picked one word out of a long discussion'' and ''distorted it and tried to use it to argue that Senator Kerry will not keep the American people safe'' in an effort to distract attention from the economy.
 ''He's talking about a man who is carrying shrapnel in his body today,'' Mr. Edwards said, referring to Mr. Kerry's war wounds. ''He is talking about a man who spilled his blood for the United States of America.'' 
 The criss-crossing campaign events here, which brought Air Force One to the same airport where Mr. Kerry's red, white and blue Boeing 757 was parked, was the second time in 10 days the two men have fought for attention in the same town, and capped a week of political leapfrog in which each has visited the battlegrounds of Arizona, New Mexico and Nevada. Each side denied that it was the copycat, but the parallel schedules confirmed that this close election is being fought in a limited number of states. 
 At a fund-raiser with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Thursday night, Mr. Bush said that he intended to add California to the states in contention, despite polls showing a Democratic advantage. ''Nobody should take this state for granted in 2004,'' he said.
 Here in Portland and later Friday afternoon in Seattle -- two liberal cities with strong antiwar movements, Mr. Bush made parochial appeals, with the river-dredging and by saying, after a tour of a Boeing plant, that he would push hard to end the European subsidies for Airbus.
 ''I've instructed the U.S. Trade Representative Bob Zoellick to inform European officials in his September meeting that we think these subsidies are unfair and he should pursue all options to end these subsidies, including bringing a W.T.O. case if need be,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Earlier, at an industrial park on the Columbia here, he promised, ''What I'm telling you is we're committed to keeping the Columbia River open for navigation and trade, and we're committed to keeping America's great ports open for business.''
 But Keith Ashdown, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, denounced the project as ''an expensive scheme to buy votes in a battleground state.''
 The visit to the Pacific Northwest contrasted with Mr. Bush's trip earlier this week through the conservative Florida Panhandle, where thousands of fans lined the highway to glimpse the president's entourage. Here, the small clusters gathered to wave as the president passed included protesters as well.
 Mr. Kerry also faced critics at his morning event Friday in Springfield -- one held a sign asking whether he had ''waffles'' for breakfast -- but he reached beyond his base by stopping Thursday night in the Republican-leaning southwestern corner of the state, where 10,000 people filled the Jackson County fairgrounds.
 For Mr. Kerry, the Portland rally was the final stop on his post-convention swing through 17 states -- Mr. Edwards hit another five on his own -- using 43 buses, a train, seven helicopters, three planes and a ferry. His campaign said he had seen 300,000 people over two weeks.
 Flying here Thursday night, he was delighted to discover local news coverage comparing his open-to-the-public rally with Mr. Bush's invitation-only event, and his aides made a show on Friday of reports that people were told they had to volunteer for Mr. Bush's campaign to get in.
 Scott Stanzel, a Bush spokesman, said logistics prevented the president from having wide-open doors.
 ''It is important for us to make sure that the people who are working hard on behalf of this campaign have an opportunity to see the president and hear what he has to say,'' he said. While Mr. Kerry's rally here was unticketed, at his earlier event, on a quiet cul-de-sac in Springfield, the line of people holding invitations was filled with campaign volunteers, while neighbors watched from across the street.
 ''I don't know how you go about being invited,'' sighed Karen McEldowney-Hay, 56, an undecided Democrat who was stuck behind the cordon. ''I just was going to watch and see if I could get a glimpse of him.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry, above, in Portland, Ore., ended a 15-day campaign swing yesterday, while President Bush also campaigned in Portland. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); TAX INCREASES (72%); FAMILY (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%) OREGON, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



334 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage Becomes A Swing Issue With Pull

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
Supporters and opponents of same-sex marriage called this week's California Supreme Court decision nullifying San Francisco's marriage licenses a minor prelude to bigger battles at the ballot box. Both social conservatives and gay rights groups say their debate is becoming increasingly intertwined with the presidential election.
 Social conservatives have argued for months that voters, not judges, should ultimately settle the issue of legal recognition for gay couples. They have organized to put constitutional amendments blocking same-sex marriages on the ballots in a dozen states this fall, including the pivotal swing states of Oregon, Michigan and Ohio. 
 And after the strong turnout in support of a similar measure in Missouri on Aug. 3, some conservative strategists said that the referendums could help President Bush by motivating traditionalists to vote. ''It could well be what swings the election,'' said Grover Norquist, a strategist close to the Bush campaign. 
 Phil Burress, a veteran organizer who is working to amend the Ohio Constitution, said a California ruling in favor of same-sex marriage might actually have helped his efforts even more. ''What really would have fired us up is if it had been a decision that would have been more judicial tyranny,'' Mr. Burress said. ''When we win one, it doesn't fire us up. It surprises us that the judges got it right. We high-fived for a couple of minutes around the office and then we went back to work.''
 But in a shift from their previous strategy, some gay rights groups fighting the amendments banning same-sex marriage said yesterday that they, too, would use advertisements aimed at making the debate an issue in the presidential election. 
 Cheryl Jacques, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, one of the main groups fighting for gay marriage, said the group plans to argue in advertising campaigns in Ohio and other swing states that the Bush campaign and its allies are orchestrating the marriage amendment efforts in order to distract voters from other issues. 
 ''There is a single puppet master behind these efforts, and that is George W. Bush and his allies,'' Ms. Jacques said in an interview. ''They will try to make this an issue, and are going to remind people what they already know, that most people don't wake up in the morning thinking about gay and lesbian marriage or any gay issue. They wake up in the morning thinking about jobs and health care and the war in Iraq.''
 To suggest that Mr. Bush's campaign is behind the state initiatives, advocates of same-sex marriage have pointed to a letter that Ken Blackwell, a Republican who is secretary of state of Ohio, wrote to his supporters saying that the Bush campaign had asked him to support the state's amendment. Representatives of Mr. Blackwell and Mr. Bush did not dispute the letter.
 But Mr. Burress said Republican leaders in Ohio had initially resisted his efforts to put the amendment on the ballot. 
 Some conservatives contended that accusing Mr. Bush of fighting same-sex marriage would help him and hurt Mr. Kerry, the Democratic candidate. In the Missouri election, gay rights groups spent $450,000 and their opponents only $19,000. The turnout was twice as high as in a typical state primary and the amendment to ban gay marriage passed with 71 percent support. 
 ''I would think the Kerry campaign would want to talk to the Human Rights Campaign,'' said Gary Bauer, a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 2000 and founder of the organization American Values. ''If I am for marriage between a man and a women, then I should vote for George Bush. I think that is the last message Senator John Kerry wants to be connected with in the minds of voters.''
 Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said: ''The president has made his position clear, that he believes the institution of marriage should be preserved. This issue was forced on the country by a group of activist judges, and states across the country have measures on the ballot for the fall election which will preserve the institution of marriage, and voters will let their voices be heard.''
 Some Democrats argued that the ballot measures might not damage Mr. Kerry. Phil Singer, a spokesman for Mr. Kerry, said Mr. Kerry also opposed same-sex marriage, although he opposed amending the federal Constitution to ban same-sex unions. ''John Kerry believes a marriage is between a man and a woman but doesn't think that the Constitution should be used as a way to divide the country,'' Mr. Singer said.
 Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who has worked for the Human Rights Campaign, argued that the Bush campaign's support for the amendments could backfire. ''Voters will say this is not the priority right now,'' she said. ''The issue here is Iraq and the economy, not gay marriage. They are using this to distract and deflect from their failures on Iraq and the economy. Which are you more worried about?''
 Of the three swing states where same-sex marriage amendments are likely to appear on the ballot, Ms. Lake argued, Ohio was the only one where it might make a difference. She argued that the amendment was not very popular in Oregon and that Mr. Kerry could carry Michigan by turning out voters among traditionally Democratic groups like union members and African-Americans. 
 ''Ohio is a different story,'' Ms. Lake said. ''It is very close and it could have an impact there.'' 
 Both sides of the marriage battle say they plan to step up their efforts as the election nears. Tony Perkins, president of the conservative Family Research Council, said opponents of same-sex marriage were relying on like-minded churches to turn out their members, just as they did in Missouri. On Sept. 19, he and other well-known conservative Christians will hold their third national telecast to churches around the country this year to discuss the issue.
 They will speak from the First Baptist Church of Springdale, Ark. The organization Americans United for Separation of Church and State has argued that the church violated the requirements of its tax-exempt status by engaging in politics.
 Gay groups, meanwhile, are continuing to press their case in courts. Last week, a court in Washington State ruled in favor of a same-sex couple's right to marry, setting the stage for an appeals battle there. Other cases are pending in state courts in New Jersey and Oregon, and a Constitutional challenge is under way in federal court in Florida. 
 Another case is pending in California, too. The court's ruling this week addressed only the procedural matter of whether the mayor of San Francisco could issue marriage licenses. Another case working its way through the court system will settle the underlying issue of same-sex marriage rights under the state Constitution, but that case could take years to resolve.
 Still, Jordan Lorence, a lawyer with the Alliance Defense Fund, a socially conservative legal group that has filed briefs in many of the cases, argued that court victories for same-sex marriage were unlikely to settle much. Even in Massachusetts, he said, opponents were still trying to change the state Constitution. ''The final decision is going to be made by the voters,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); CONSERVATISM (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); COHABITATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); BALLOTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); APPEALS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



335 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Oil Above $46 and Far Above OPEC's Ceiling

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
After oil prices fell to about $9 a barrel in 1998, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries showed remarkable discipline, restraining production and managing supplies to get oil back above a $22-a-barrel floor and keep it there. 
 But OPEC's policy is in disarray today, as the cartel's 11 members seem unable to stick to the other half of their self-imposed bargain by keeping their benchmark price under a $28-a-barrel ceiling. 
 Low-sulfur crude for delivery next month, the most widely watched oil price, settled at $46.58 a barrel in New York on Friday, the third time this week that it has set a record; last Friday's final price was $43.95 a barrel.
 The benchmark basket price that OPEC uses is typically several dollars lower, because it also includes less- sought-after grades with more sulfur content; on Thursday, it reached $40.76 a barrel, 41 percent higher than a year earlier. 
 There is not much that even OPEC's largest producer, Saudi Arabia, can do. The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, tried on Wednesday to reassure the markets that there was plenty of oil available, announcing that the kingdom had increased production by 1 million barrels a day over the last three months, to 9.3 million barrels a day, and that it could quickly pump another 1.3 million barrels daily if needed. Traders shrugged off the announcement and bid prices up further. 
 ''To me, that was a very bullish sign from the market,'' said Thomas Bentz, senior oil analyst with BNP Paribas in New York. ''Everyone knows OPEC's reached full capacity.''
 After the downfall of Saddam Hussein in Iraq, OPEC ministers were concerned that a rapid return of Iraqi oil to the market would bring prices down. That was before sabotage and the continuing insurrection against the United States-led occupation of the country caused the shutting off of Iraq's oil export pipeline through Turkey and hampered the rehabilitation of its oil industry. 
 The last thing the cartel wanted to do after the invasion of Iraq was put too much oil on the market. OPEC ministers remembered the last time that happened, in November 1997, when they decided at a meeting in Jakarta to raise their production ceiling by 10 percent. 
 The timing of that move was especially unfortunate, as Asia was entering an economic crisis and a new United Nations program was allowing Iraq to resume exports. By the end of 1998, OPEC's benchmark price was down to $9.13, its lowest since 1986. 
 Determined not to repeat that experience, OPEC lowered its overall production ceiling three times in the months after the collapse of the Hussein regime last year, by a total of 3.9 million barrels a day. 
 Not until June of this year did OPEC finally decide to reverse course, agreeing at its Beirut meeting to raise its production ceiling to 26 million barrels a day. OPEC has met twice since then and canceled a third gathering without taking any new measures; it is next scheduled to meet on Sept. 15 in Vienna.
 ''OPEC's been worried about a repeat of Jakarta,'' said Jay Saunders, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in New York. ''It wants to be more conservative and cautious, rather than put too much oil on the market.'' Now it seems clear, he said, that ''they messed up.'' 
 To be sure, many developments beyond OPEC's control have contributed to shorter supplies and higher prices. 
 In Iraq, neither the American occupation authorities nor the interim Iraqi administration has found a way to get oil shipments consistently back up to prewar levels.
 In Venezuela, which supplies about 4 percent of the world's oil, production has still not fully recovered from a near-shutdown of the state oil company in December 2002 by political opponents of President Hugo Chavez. 
 Tensions there dispute may heat up again this weekend, as the country's voters decide in a referendum whether to recall Mr. Chavez; traders are concerned that any unrest surrounding the recall vote might disrupt shipments to the United States.
 Violence and ethnic strife in Nigeria, Africa's biggest producer, led to attacks on oil operations there last year. Some 40 percent of the country's production capacity is shut, according to the United States Energy Information Administration.
 And in Russia, the leading producer, Yukos, is engulfed in a legal and tax battle with the government, threatening to disrupt output. 
 ''We have too many issues out there,'' said Thomas Bentz, a senior analyst with BNP Paribas in New York. ''You name them: Russia and Yukos, sabotage in Iraq, hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, the referendum in Venezuela. These issues are keeping prices at a lofty level.'' 
 For oil traders, a fire at a BP refinery in Whiting, Ind., was Friday's reason of the day to bid prices up to fresh records, with little sign of anything that could fundamentally reverse the trend soon. 
 ''It's been a raging bull market that goes back to April last year, after the war ended,'' Mr. Bentz said. ''Even OPEC is helpless.'' 
 It was not supposed to be that way. In March 2000, OPEC decided to adopt a price-band mechanism that was meant to help it respond swiftly and predictably to sudden swings in demand. If OPEC's benchmark basket price rises above $28 a barrel for 20 days, or falls below $22 for 10 days, the rules call for the cartel to adjust production up or down to bring prices back into line. 
 Many analysts credited the policy with bringing some measure of stability to the oil markets, at least until recently. The mechanism was formally used only once, in October 2000, when OPEC raised production ceilings. Since then, the OPEC benchmark price generally stayed in or near the band, averaging $23.12 a barrel in 2001, $24.36 in 2002 and $28.10 in 2003.
 Oil-consuming nations want prices to be stable above all, and only OPEC can help them achieve that, said Valerie Marcel, an energy expert at Chatham House, an independent research institute in London, supported by private and corporate grants. 
 ''OPEC is the West's best friend,'' Ms. Marcel said. ''It's only through a concerted action that you can reach stability on the market.''
 But the organization has shown little zeal in applying its price band in this year's run-up. The OPEC benchmark price has been above $28 a barrel without interruption since Dec. 2, 2003, but OPEC resisted raising its production ceilings for months. 
 ''It's pretty clear that OPEC's price bias has been on the upside,'' said Jamal Qureshi, an analyst at the Petroleum Finance Corporation, an industry consulting group in Washington. ''They like high prices, but things are really stretched, really tight now, and beyond their control.''
 So why has OPEC been caught short? One factor has been strong demand, especially from China, that exceeded both OPEC's and oil analysts' forecasts. The International Energy Agency, an adviser to 26 industrialized nations including the United States and Britain, said this week that it had raised its estimate for demand over the next two years, and now expected consumption of 84 million barrels a day in 2005.
 Global demand grew 2.2 percent last year and is on a pace to grow 3.2 percent this year, the agency said.
 ''Demand growth has been incredibly rapid, and has stretched supplies beyond what anyone expected, including OPEC,'' Mr. Qureshi said.
 Another factor is that most OPEC members are already producing all the oil they can, in many cases exceeding their formal quotas. Non-OPEC producers are also generally shipping as much oil as they can to take advantage of the high prices. 
 So while OPEC can still drive prices higher, the market has learned this year how little power it now has to lower them. 
 ''OPEC's market share has been steadily declining over the past two decades,'' said Ms. Marcel of Chatham House. ''With both Iraq and Venezuela down in the same quarter last year, OPEC's ability to bring more oil on the market has been hurt like never before.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said his country had increased oil production by one million barrels a day over the last three months. (Photo by Graham Barclay/Bloomberg News)(pg. C14)Chart: ''Missing Its Target''Since March 2000, OPEC's policy has been to keep its benchmark -- a blend of prices for seven grades of crude -- in a band from $21 to $28 a barrel. In recent months, prices have risen beyond the cartel's control.Graph tracks OPEC's benchmark price, daily, since 2000.Graph shows when announcements to raise or maintain production quota and when announcements to lower production quota were made since 2000.Graph shows when oil price band set by OPEC.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); FUTURES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Records and Achievements; Production; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (53%); BNP (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) Jad Mouawad; Ali Al- (Min) Naimi

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



336 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Eloise Gets a New Landlord: Plaza Sells for $675 Million

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
The Plaza Hotel, where F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald pranced in the fountain and Eloise burbled ''Oooooooo, I absolutely love the Plaza'' as she pranced through the corridors,- is being sold to the New York unit of an Israeli developer for $675 million.
 The Plaza's new owner (and thus the new landlord of Eloise, the fictional 6-year-old heroine of the children's books by Kay Thompson and Hilary Knight) is Elad Properties. While the price is not a record for a hotel in New York, the per-room price -- a measure analysts routinely calculate -- is, said Sean Hennessey, who follows the New York hotel market for Lodging Investment Advisers, a consulting firm.
 Elad is paying $838,509 a room, a sign, Mr. Hennessey said, that the hotel market is rebounding from the Sept. 11 terror attacks. He said that room rates for hotels in New York had risen 9 percent this year, far outpacing inflation. 
 ''The operating fundamentals are improving,'' he said, ''so there have been a lot of investors and sellers who were sitting on the sidelines in the downturn that followed 9/11, waiting for market conditions to firm up enough to put their properties up for sale or jump in and buy them.''
 Since 1995, the Plaza has been owned by one of the world's wealthiest men, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal bin Abdul Aziz Alsaud of Saudi Arabia, and Millennium & Copthorne, a London-based company that runs hotels in 16 countries. The prince, a nephew of King Fahd, made headlines after the Sept. 11 attacks when he offered to donate $10 million to the City of New York, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, the mayor at the time, accepted but then returned the check.
 Mr. Giuliani sent the check back after learning that in a news release, the prince had criticized the American government's policies in the Middle East.
 The prince and Millennium & Copthorne paid Donald J. Trump $325 million and spent $40 million on renovations. But based on figures from Millennium & Copthorne, the Plaza had a pretax loss of $1.8 million last year.
 ''It's an icon, but the price is too good to refuse,'' Kwek Leng Beng, the chairman of Millennium & Copthorne, said at a news conference in Singapore, according to Bloomberg News. ''The prince is very happy -- he's invited me to Paris, where he wants to give me a big dinner.''
 Miki Naftali, president and chief executive of Elad Properties, issued a statement through a spokesman, who declined to discuss Elad's plans for the Plaza. A real estate executive who had been briefed on the deal said Elad was considering turning some of the Plaza's 805 rooms into condominiums.
 Mr. Trump talked about the same idea when he controlled the Plaza in the early 1990's. He said at the time that condominiums would not turn the turreted French Renaissance landmark into the Manhattan version of a time-share in the Catskills, though some architectural historians called the plan heresy.
 ''The flavor of the project is similar to what Trump had in mind,'' the executive who had been briefed on the deal said. ''It's going to be a high-end condominium with hotel services.''
 Elad has built condominiums in a couple of other buildings it has renovated in New York recently: one a former United Federation of Teachers office building on East 21st Street near Gramercy Park, another the old Mercantile Library building at Astor Place and Broadway.
 For his part, Mr. Kwek said the Plaza still needed work.
 ''The hotel needs renovation, and I don't want to spend any more money on it,'' Mr. Kwek was quoted as saying. He said that in its best year, 2000, the Plaza had a profit of $45 million.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Israeli developer is buying the Plaza, celebrated in fact and fiction, for a record price per room. (Photo by Peter Kramer/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); TERRORISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); PUBLIC POLICY (50%) Hotels and Motels; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Plaza Hotel (NYC); Elad Properties

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (50%) James Barron

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (74%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



337 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: Free-Spending Chavez Could Swing Vote His Way

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
In an extraordinary referendum after years of political turmoil, Venezuelans will vote Sunday on whether to dismiss President Hugo Chavez, who has alienated the Bush administration with his anti-American bombast and polarized the nation with promises to use oil wealth for a social revolution. 
 Eight months ago, as opponents of Mr. Chavez fanned out across the country to gather the signatures needed for the vote, he looked likely to have his tenure cut short. But on Friday, amid a huge spending campaign in poor neighborhoods, the contest had narrowed to the point where several pollsters said the president might win an endorsement of his rule. 
 The referendum is being closely monitored abroad. Mr. Chavez, 50, a former paratrooper and failed coup leader, rose from poverty to power five and a half years ago and then won re-election in a landslide that underscored Venezuelans' anger at the old political order. He has since so rankled Washington with his leftist agenda and authoritarian impulse that American officials blamed Mr. Chavez himself when he was briefly ousted after deadly street protests in 2002. 
 To Mr. Chavez's supporters -- and there are many among the 70 percent of Venezuelan's 25 million people who are poor -- he is a leader who is finally paying attention to their needs after generations of political neglect. 
 To his critics, numerous among diplomats, Bush administration officials and the country's moneyed classes, Mr. Chavez is a blustering populist or, worse, a dangerous ideologue who styles himself a 21st-century Fidel Castro. He has unnerved opponents by stacking courts and other arms of government with his backers and concentrating his own powers, much of it achieved through popular referendums. 
 While other Latin American leftists -- from Salvador Allende in Chile in the 1970's to the Sandinistas in Nicaragua in the 1980's -- have made similar revolutionary pledges, none have had the financial means of this nation, which has the largest oil reserves outside the Middle East and ranks as the world's fifth-largest oil exporter. For this fact alone, which gives Mr. Chavez unparalleled opportunity to carry through on his plans, Venezuela's vote could prove a watershed for the region.
 With Venezuelan oil now hovering at $37 a barrel and the country enjoying a $7 billion windfall this year, Mr. Chavez's government has embarked on a spending spree that has astounded analysts and greatly improved his chances of winning on Sunday. 
 He now has the backing of about half of the Venezuelan electorate, according to some polls, making it harder for the opposition to muster the nearly 3.8 million yes votes it needs -- at least one more than Mr. Chavez got when he was re-elected in 2000 -- to end his term and bring a new presidential election. Even if the opposition gets the votes, if Mr. Chavez gets more votes, he will remain in office. 
 The vote will be monitored by observers from the Organization of American States and the Carter Center, based in Atlanta, but the opposition has expressed concern that Mr. Chavez may be tempted to cheat if the tally is close. Mr. Chavez says even if he loses, he will run again for the presidency and win. Oil market analysts appear most concerned by the uncertainty -- and possible violent unrest -- that a disputed vote or Mr. Chavez's ouster could produce. 
 A decisive moment in Mr. Chavez's presidency came 18 months ago, when in the middle of deepening political unrest and a crippling national strike, the president tightened the state's grasp on the national oil company, Pdvsa, (pronounced peh-deh-VEH-sah) by dismissing 18,000 antigovernment managers in a move that many analysts believed would ruin the company. 
 Instead, Pdvsa is today producing 2.6 million barrels a day, and has quickly turned itself around to bankroll what Mr. Chavez grandly calls his Bolivarian revolution, named for the 19th-century Latin American political visionary Simon Bolivar. 
 ''If you have a lot of oil wells, you can generate a lot of ideology as long as those oil wells are producing,'' said Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a Washington-based policy group. 
 The government's philosophy is neatly summed up in Mr. Chavez's new, unofficial, name for Pdvsa, the People's Oil Company, a designation symbolizing Pdvsa's central role in ratcheting up spending in the name of the poor.
 ''Oil is not only for a minority, so that minority can get rich,'' Mr. Chavez told supporters in a recent speech. ''It needs to be redistributed.''
 Mr. Chavez's plans for Venezuela's oil money would seem to answer a complaint about unequal distribution of wealth voiced throughout Latin America, as well as address calls from American officials and international lenders who have encouraged reforms in developing nations where state resources enrich a corrupt and powerful few. 
 But Mr. Chavez has also enraged and alienated millions of Venezuelans with his bullying, calling his opponents ''squalid ones'' and church leaders ''devils in vestments.'' His rambling monologues on state-run television, some lasting seven hours, are filled with references to baseball, Walt Whitman and Jesus, embarrassing upper-class Venezuelans who believe Mr. Chavez sounds more like a crackpot than a statesman. 
 Mr. Chavez has also provoked controversy through his coziness with dictators like Mr. Castro, Saddam Hussein and Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe, and by failing to condemn rebel terrorism in neighboring Colombia.
 ''He pours salt into wounds and that's why some people hate him so much,'' said Mr. Birns, who is supportive of many of Mr. Chavez's policies. 
 If Mr. Chavez's style does not endear him to those unpersuaded by his promises, his promises also have yet to amount to coherent social policy, some analysts say.
 Some government money goes to quirky programs aimed at bringing quick political payoffs and positive headlines -- like the thousands of Argentine cows the governments says it plans to buy and hand out to the poor.
 Critics charge that Mr. Chavez's antipoverty plans are piecemeal and politically motivated, that he has placed incompetent officials in positions of power, and that he is bypassing fiscal controls, with hundreds of millions of dollars in public assistance now circumventing the Congress and the Central Bank and going straight into the barrios.
 Officials in the Chavez administration counter that they are shifting vast amounts of money toward a social experiment aimed at nothing less than transforming a country that in the 1970's appeared headed toward affluence but was sidetracked by corruption and government ineptitude. 
 The strategy for this makeover is hashed out every Monday when nine ministers, led by the minister of education, Aristobulo Isturiz, meet around an oval table at the Ministry of Education, paintings of revolutionary era generals and statesmen lining the walls. Here, ideology is put into practice.
 ''Up to now, we had democracy with political rights, in the midst of profound inequality,'' said Mr. Isturiz, a close confidant of the president. ''What we needed was to create a social democracy.''
 Mr. Isturiz said some programs did not start until recently because the government was busy tightening its control over Pdvsa and putting in place a new legal framework. Mr. Chavez pushed through constitutional reforms in 1999, then other laws were passed in 2001 that gave the state more say over and access to revenues, particularly from oil. 
 ''All this allowed us to take control of the company and direct part of the earnings to social programs,'' Mr. Isturiz said. ''Today our government is much stronger.''
 Much of the emphasis, he said, is on education, with high school and university classes expanded for the poor, and ambitious literacy and vocational programs for those who had never considered stepping into a classroom. Now, 12 million Venezuelans from small children to adults are enrolled in some kind of educational program, up from 9 million at the start of Mr. Chavez's government. 
 In all, he said, the government this year is spending more than $4.5 billion, nearly 20 percent of its budget, on education. That is equal to 6.1 percent of gross domestic product, Mr. Isturiz said, about twice the percentage of last year.
 Much of the money comes from Pdvsa. Rafael Ramirez, minister of energy and mines, recently said $1.7 billion from Pdvsa's $5 billion capitalization budget now financed social programs. About $600 million is being spent on education and health care programs, another $600 million is going toward agriculture and $500 is being spent to build homes and a highway and to finance other infrastructure projects.
 Another $2 billion in revenues is forming a development fund to pay for megaprojects like a hydroelectric plant, a state airline, power stations and sugar industry plants.
 With Venezuelan oil selling for nearly twice what the government forecast last year in drawing up this year's budget, analysts say the programs are sustainable in the short term. But they also wonder if Venezuela is failing to prepare for the downturn that usually follows Latin American resource booms.
 ''They can go on for a while because it's likely oil markets will remain strong for a while,'' said Michael Gavin, chief Latin America economist at UBS Warburg in Connecticut. ''They can spent $1.5 billion. They can spend $3 billion and still attend to the needs of Pdvsa. It's just mind-boggling the amount Pdvsa is earning.'' But he asked: ''Are they putting anything in place for when the party's over? I have my doubts.''
 Whether or not Mr. Chavez has organized an effective antipoverty plan, he has realized an effective political strategy, a reality that is not lost on opposition leaders. In the approach to the referendum they have stopped direct attacks on government antipoverty programs and now say they will maintain and improve many of them if they come to power. 
 ''I think that the opposition, or at least some members of the leadership alliance, made errors in attacking the social programs,'' Enrique Mendoza, the leading opposition figure, said in an interview. ''We will not touch the social programs.'' 
 For the people of the teeming barrios of the city, who rarely, if ever, received much attention from generations of Mr. Chavez's predecessors, the government's approach is a welcomed change. 
 In the Gramoven neighborhood, the construction of a clinic, a multi-use sports complex, a meeting hall, a shoe factory, housing and the country's largest subsidized market on a 56-acre plot is seen as nothing short of miraculous.
 ''Now there is concern for the barrios, for the people who are in need,'' said Victor Rojas, a Pdvsa employee for 23 years who is helping oversee this project. ''I'm sad we didn't do this before. We could have changed people's lives. They would be living in dignity, not in misery.''
 Not far away, in a small classroom, neighborhood people are learning to read in one program, and earning their high school equivalency diploma in another. They thank Mr. Chavez and Pdvsa, saying the company is at last benefiting them.
 ''We have an opportunity we never had,'' said Margarita Ascanio, 55, a seamstress who, with the help of a Pdvsa-financed literacy program, is learning to read. ''Pdvsa now belongs to Venezuela.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Yes or no? That is the question for Venezuela in a referendum tomorrow when a yes vote would put President Hugo Chavez out of office. Both sides held rallies Thursday. The contest has narrowed to the point where some pollsters say Mr. Chavez may win endorsement of his government. (Photo by Susana Gonzalez/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
(Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)
A Caracas slum towered behind boys playing soccer on a court that is part of a new complex that includes a clinic staffed by Cuban doctors, and a government-run market that offers cheap, subsidized food. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)
 A week before the recall referendum, President Chavez, who has rankled Washington, addressed thousands of supporters in Caracas. (Photo by Andrew Alvarez/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); COUPS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (94%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); NICARAGUA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



338 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: A French Employee's Work Celebrates the Sloth Ethic

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
Finally, instead of dissembling behind ambiguous notions of Gallic joie de vivre, someone in this leisurely land has declared outright that the French should eschew the Anglo-Saxon work ethic and openly embrace sloth.
 Corinne Maier, the author of ''Bonjour Paresse,'' a sort of slacker manifesto whose title translates as ''Hello Laziness,'' has become a countercultural heroine almost overnight by encouraging the country's workers to adopt her strategy of ''active disengagement'' -- calculated loafing -- to escape the horrors of disinterested endeavor.
 ''Imitate me, midlevel executives, white-collar workers, neo-slaves, the damned of the tertiary sector,'' Ms. Maier calls in her slim volume, which is quickly becoming a national best seller. She argues that France's ossified corporate cultural no longer offers rank-and-file employees the prospect of success, so, ''Why not spread gangrene through the system from inside?'' 
 The book is a counterpoint to efforts by the country's center-right government to repair the damage done to French work habits by decades of Socialist administration, which enacted a 35-hour workweek. It is gaining in popularity just as the International Monetary Fund is urging Europeans to work longer and harder to stiffen their soft economies.
 The French already work less than people in most other developed countries -- on average, nearly 300 fewer hours a year than Americans, according to one study.
 In many ways, Ms. Maier is typical of France's intelligentsia, overeducated and underemployed. She studied economics and international relations at the country's elite National Foundation of Political Sciences, or Sciences-Po, before earning a doctorate in psychoanalysis. 
 But she works just 20 hours a week writing dry economic reports at the state electric utility, Electricite de France, for which she is paid about $2,000 a month. Sitting in the living room of her Left Bank apartment, decorated with colorful abstract art, huge stereo speakers and a bicycle, Ms. Maier, 40, insists that her polemic, though tongue in cheek, has a principled point. ''Can we work in a corporation and contest the system,'' she asks, ''or must we be blind and docile and adhere to everything that the corporation says?''
 Part of the problem, according to Ms. Maier, is that French companies are frozen by strict social norms.
 ''Everything depends on what school you went to and what diploma you have,'' she said, arguing that advancement is slow and comes less from ambition than from endurance. ''French corporations,'' she says, ''are not meritocracies.''
 Workers remain at their jobs until retirement, stymieing the promotion of those below them, she argues, yet a system of patronage and stiff legal protections make it difficult for employers to fire anyone. Years of such stagnation in France's hierarchy-obsessed society have produced elaborate rituals to keep people busy.
 ''Work is organized a little like the court of Louis XIV, very complicated and very ritualized so that people feel they are working effectively when they are not,'' she said.
 Her solution? Rather than keep up what she sees as an exhausting charade, people who dislike what they do should, as she puts it, discreetly disengage. If done correctly -- and her book gives a few tips, such as looking busy by always carrying a stack of files -- few co-workers will notice, and those who do will be too worried about rocking the boat to complain. Given the difficulty of firing employees, she says, frustrated superiors are more likely to move such subversive workers up than out.
 The book's title is a play on ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' the title of the 1954 best-selling novel by Francoise Sagan that recounted a worldly young woman's cynical approach to relationships and sex. Ms. Maier's book, subtitled ''The Art and Necessity of Doing the Least Possible in a Corporation,'' is concerned with a more mundane malaise.
 With chapters titled ''The Morons Who Are Sitting Next To You'' and ''Beautiful Swindles,'' it declares that corporate culture is nothing more than the ''crystallization of the stupidity of a group of people at a given moment.''
 Her employer of 12 years was not amused. Irritated that she identified herself as an Electricite de France employee on the back cover of her book, company officials wrote her a stern letter accusing her of inattention at meetings, leaving work early and ''spreading gangrene from within,'' just as her book advocates. They demanded that she appear for a disciplinary hearing, though the original Aug. 17 date has been pushed back to September. That's because Ms. Maier is going on vacation. 
 ''They want to make an example of me,'' Ms. Maier said.
 When she received the letter from her employer, she did what any French worker would do: she took it to the company union and asked them to help in her defense. The union, already engaged in a bitter battle with management over a partial privatization scheme, took the case to the news media, where it received instant and widespread attention.
 Without the company's maneuver, Ms. Maier's book would probably have quietly gone out of print. Instead, her publisher, Editions Michalon, sold out the first printing of 4,000 copies and has ordered three successive reprints in the past three months: 15,000 copies have been printed so far and, having apparently struck a chord with the country's work force, demand only appears to be growing.
 She said the reaction of co-workers has been mixed, with some outraged by her thankless attitude. ''They think it scandalous,'' she said, ''like I spit in my soup.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Corinne Maier, 40, an electric company employee and author of ''Bonjour Paresse,'' in her apartment in Paris. In her book, she invites French workers to join her campaign of ''active disengagement'' -- calculated loafing. (Photo by Christophe Calais for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); WRITERS (77%); WORK WEEK (76%); CORPORATE CULTURE (75%); BESTSELLERS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: EDF (PAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (53%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004



339 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: China's Buildings: In Pink, and in the Red

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: ZHONGSHAN, China 

 BODY:
CHINA has a serious problem these days, and the color of the problem is pink. 
 Pink and similar hues -- from rose-tinged brick to tangerine and even magenta -- have been popular in the last few years with Chinese developers, who have also proven partial to tinted, highly reflective glass and rooftops in the shape of lotus blossoms. 
 The result is an extraordinary number of garish apartment buildings, office buildings, industrial parks and houses, especially here in southeastern China. But the big problem for China is not so much that these new buildings are hideous, though many are, but that an extraordinary number of them are empty. 
 A sixth of the luxury residential real estate in Shanghai is vacant, a quarter in Beijing and a third near here in Shenzhen. In the next several years, the number of unoccupied buildings is expected to increase considerably. Experts predict that the supply of office space will rise by as much as 50 percent in the next couple of years, while forests of luxury residential buildings are being completed in Shanghai, Beijing and elsewhere.
 Nobody knows who will want to buy up this pink profusion. Real estate prices are already so high that buyers of new apartment in Chinese cities often pay a price equal to 10 to 15 years of their income; in the United States, the national average is closer to 3.5 years of income, according to Morgan Stanley. China's property boom raises fears of a possible collapse of prices. 
 As in the United States, home buyers in China have been able to afford stratospheric prices because they have been borrowing at very low interest rates. Government-owned Chinese banks have long charged a government-mandated interest rate of 5.31 percent for many loans.
 With inflation in prices paid by consumers hitting 5.3 percent in China in July, and nearly twice that for business-to-business dealings, which are less regulated, borrowing money has been attractive for anyone with the political connections that are often needed to get a loan.
 But the big question is whether real estate bubbles might start popping in big Chinese cities. In Australia, housing prices started to fall after interest rates began climbing there. 
 Yet in China, little seems to deter the developers, who until recently kept borrowing and building. Many developers make their real profits by pocketing a big part of a project's construction costs, steering contracts to builders in which they hold stakes. Then if no one wants to lease the finished complex, the developers simply stop making payments to the banks.
 Chinese banks, in turn, are slow to foreclose on developers. This is partly because the developers often have political connections and partly because the banks themselves face legal difficulties in selling or leasing buildings on which they foreclose.
 The Chinese government has been trying to slow its runaway economy this summer by limiting bank loans, especially for real estate development. A senior multinational banker in China said that he had already been approached by several large developers who were desperate for loans because they have been suddenly cut off by the government-owned banks. 
 ''Those developers are scrambling to talk to whomever they can talk to,'' the banker said.
 China's big banks have already required three large bailouts in the last seven years, and the question now is whether they will require another.
 Bad loans ''will definitely rise in the quarters ahead'' as the real estate boom slows, said Frank F.X. Gong, the chief China economist for J.P. Morgan. 
 Mr. Gong, like other economists, contends that China will be able to control the banking problem, although it might be painful for the economy and politically awkward, as were the savings and loan industry's difficulties in the United States in the late 1980's.
 ''The problem in the banks will be manageable, but in the property sector, there will be a shakeout,'' Mr. Gong said. 
 Whether that would improve the quality of Chinese architecture remains to be seen. It might, if only because there is a shortage of trained architects to plan all the projects rising up and down the coast. If fewer inexperienced people are called on to design buildings then perhaps the number of eyesores will diminish. 
 One hopeful sign has emerged. Brad Fiske, a Philadelphia architect, just won a contract in China by submitting a design that was uncommonly subdued.
 ''The days of brightly colored reflective glass seem to be going,'' Mr. Fiske said. ''There seems to be a greater degree of sophistication.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: China's recent fashion: pink buildings. In the days of central planning many buildings were white and boxy, so these new, flashier buildings really stand out. Examples from southern China include residential buildings in Pan Yu, above and above left, and a hotel in Dong Dan, left. (Photographs by Reagan Louie) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); BANKING IN CHINA (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



340 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: A Year Later, Lessons From the Blackout

BYLINE: By PETER FOX-PENNER. 
Peter Fox-Penner, a senior official with the Department of Energy from 1993 to 1996, is chairman of the Brattle Group, a consulting firm that advises utilities.

 BODY:
On Aug. 14, 2003, North America experienced the largest electrical blackout ever. An estimated 50 million Americans lost power for some period, with economic losses estimated to have reached $12 billion. Occurring less than two years after the Sept. 11 attacks, the event again pointed out our vulnerability to large, unseen forces. 
 In the wake of the blackout, New Yorkers and the rest of America learned -- to their amazement -- that the rules for maintaining electric reliability are voluntary, with no penalties for violations. This system worked well when the utility industry was heavily regulated, but now it is badly outdated. Last year, 444 violations of these reliability rules were reported, but not one of the violators could be punished or sanctioned. 
 The federal government and industry investigated the causes of the blackout and recommended preventive measures. The report's top recommendation was to make reliability rules mandatory and enforceable -- a change requiring federal legislation.
 One would have thought that all this would galvanize federal action to enact mandatory rules. One would have thought wrong. Instead, the Bush administration insisted on bundling reliability rules into its omnibus energy bill, reasoning that the importance of reliability rules would get the package passed more easily. But the package -- famously derided by Senator John McCain as a bill of ''Hooters and looters'' has languished, and with it, progress on reliability rules.
 As much as it needs new rules, the power industry also needs clear regulatory policies and an end to the discord that has plagued the power investment climate for a decade. Grid owners and operators need fair and effective rules that promote or even require transmission investment. In this area the administration's energy bill not only falls short, it may actually make matters worse. The bill prevents the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission from ''standardizing'' its policies, creates federal authority to force the siting of transmission lines, and provides permanent transmission entitlements to existing transmission holders that are guaranteed to be deeply contentious. It also calls for making several major policy rules in an absurdly compressed period of time. In short, the bill sends uncertain and perhaps even contradictory signals about the climate for grid investment. Wall Street is distinctly unimpressed, and that should worry us.
 While federal legislation is stalled, the industry has taken some initiative. The industry's reliability association has pushed to improve the clarity and enforcement of standards and is increasing its audits of member utilities. In its most recent audit from last year's blackout, it took FirstEnergy Corporation to task for a series of operational failures that allowed the blackout to spread across the Northeast and Midwest. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which has no formal jurisdiction, and state regulatory commissions, which do, have both increased their oversight about as much as they can. In New York, the industry has strongly focused on reliability for decades, but it, too, is limited by federal inaction and the difficulties of supplying power to the metropolitan region, the energy-hungry corner of the state. A recent audit of the New York Independent System Operator, which manages the state's power grid, found that its preparedness for reliability emergencies was well above average. At the same time, however, the operator's own chief executive reported that progress on building new grid capacity for the region was too slow, and that federal reliability rules were his highest priority. 
 The rest of the nation is, if anything, less vigilant than New York. Many utilities have increased their transmission budgets, but the projects are mostly small or local. After a nationwide review, one energy consultant, Eric Hirst, recently found that the amount of transmission capacity per unit of power generated was expected to decline 11 percent in the coming decade. And this follows a decade in which power demand has grown 2.7 percent a year while transmission grew only about 0.7 percent annually, leaving an estimated $50 billion investment shortfall. Increasing grid capacity is the top concern of utilities worldwide. 
 The issue is not simply building more, it is building smarter. Our electric grid needs a comprehensive redesign led at the federal level. The North American power network -- the world's single largest machine -- was designed and built in bits and pieces to serve a system of local regulated utilities. It is not designed or controlled to facilitate the tenfold growth in power trading that has occurred in the United States in the past decade. Important new grid technologies are being tested and sometimes used, but redesigning and rebuilding the grid will require a coordinated effort with associated financing.
 We can keep the lights on in America and improve the utility sector, but it will take much more than mandatory reliability rules. We need leadership at the federal level, and lots of it, and we need a stable regulatory and investment framework. Legislation will start the marathon, but only a new design and new investment will finish it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ENERGY SITING (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (84%)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (51%) Peter Fox-Penner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Northeastern States (US); Midwestern States (US); United States

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



341 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends: Liberal Transit; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Those Democrats and Their Private Jets

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
THERE are objects or possessions that scream ''I'm better than you'' -- items that remind the average Joe of a cultural and economic divide that cannot be crossed. It's a $10,000 bottle of wine, a Hummer, a real Rolex. This year's conspicuous object seems to be the private jet. 
 Once, this prized possession was associated with corporate executives and reclusive stars. Or with congressmen on a junket. There was nothing political, or at least nothing partisan, about them. But since October, when John Edwards was tweaked for flying on planes borrowed from Archer Daniels Midland and other companies, they have become what conservatives have portrayed as symbols of liberal hypocrisy, much as the Volvo was a generation ago. The argument is: these people pretend to be ''of the people'' or at least ''for the people'' but they are elitists who fly far above the rest of us. 
 When the leftist film maker Michael Moore used his publisher's plane on a recent book tour, for example, critics lambasted him for enjoying the corporate high life. The Hollywood activist Laurie David, the wife of Larry David of ''Curb Your Enthusiasm,'' was labeled a ''Gulfstream liberal'' in an article in the latest issue of The Atlantic Monthly for condemning S.U.V. owners while flying around in private planes. 
 Arianna Huffington, a financial backer of anti-S.U.V. commercials, has also borne the brunt of criticism for traveling in a jet; and a supermarket magnate, Ron Burkle, is perhaps as well known for his eight-bedroom 767 as he is for the more than $1.5 million that he has given to the Democratic Party since 2000.
 Republicans, of course, avoid the hassles of commercial flight at least as often as Democrats. The former chairman of Enron, Kenneth Lay, even flew on private planes to his company's bankruptcy hearings. But no one accuses Republicans and their wealthy supporters of hypocrisy, of being ''Gulfstream conservatives.'' ''Democrats get hit with a double whammy,'' said Bill Blomquist, a political science professor at Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis. ''It's not just expensive and indulgent. It's also somehow against the principles of the party.''
 David Horowitz, a conservative purveyor of the hypocrisy accusations, says that the attitude is ''everyone should ride bicycles, but we'll take the jets.'' 
 ''The schools thing is a good example of that,'' Mr. Horowitz says. ''They send their kids to private schools, but they oppose vouchers.'' 
 The image issue, the disconnect between average Americans and the celebrities who claim to love them, starts with the sticker price. The smallest Gulfstream sells for $11.5 million. An entry-level 25-hour share of private flight time, at companies like New Jersey's NetJets, costs more than $100,000. 
 This is not the kind of travel available to ''the lunch pail guy, or the person at the hair salon,'' says the Republican pollster John Zogby. ''They'll never see it.''
 Then there's the criticism of the rich environmentalist who flies in a private jet to Sierra Club fund-raisers. A midsize Gulfstream 200 uses from 1,200 to 1,500 gallons of fuel for a cross-country flight, so if it holds four people, giving them the chance to stretch out on the leather sofas, each person would use about 350 gallons of fuel. That's 10 times the amount of fuel used per person by 130 passengers flying coast to coast on a Boeing 737-300. 
 It's also nearly the equivalent of driving a Hummer cross country, twice. Mr. Burkle's 767, if it carries eight people across the continent, would each use 1,000 gallons of fuel, enough for eight Hummer trips from southern Brazil to Dearborn, Mich
 Mr. Burkle did not return calls for comment, nor did Ms. Huffington. 
 Ms. David, whose husband was a creator of ''Seinfeld,'' also could not be reached for comment. Liana Schwarz, who works closely with her at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group of which Ms. David is a member of the board, said that she was out of town. Ms. Schwarz would not say if Ms. David used a private plane to get there. 
 Such silence, according to conservatives and even some liberals, only proves that the party of the New Deal is blind to the political danger of visible self-indulgence.
 ''The big problem the Democrats have is that they don't seem to understand the fundamental Republican attack on them this liberal elitist charge,'' says Thomas Frank, author of ''What's the Matter with Kansas: How Conservatives Won the Heart of America.'' ''They don't even fight back anymore. They don't take it seriously.'' 
 Environmentalists in particular bear the imprint of their enemies. Most Americans think that so-called greens are ''supposed to be dressing in wheat shoes and burlap and driving on donkeys,'' says Mr. Blomquist. As a result, he says, ''any time they're not doing that, they're open to criticism.'' 
 Environmental advocates privately admit that they'd prefer that their liberal donors fly commercial; some even call them outright hypocrites. But they also stress that policies matter more than purchases. ''The Kerry energy plan has as its centerpiece an increase in fuel efficiency for automobiles, and they are a much larger environmental concern,'' says John Coequyt, an energy policy specialist at Greenpeace. ''Because there are more of them.''
 Yet making the personal political is an American tradition that's difficult to avoid. George Washington's image in the popular historical imagination is tied not just to his victories as a general and president; he's also the down-home farmer who chopped the cherry tree. 
 By the same token, George W. Bush may be a patrician scion of a former president but when he cuts brush in Texas, he look like an average Joe. 
 Such attempts to move down market are common, says Alan Brinkley, a historian at Columbia University. ''Andrew Jackson, William Henry Harrison -- they ran as log cabin boys, but they were aristocrats,'' he says. What's new, he says, is the Democrats' rejection of that ethos, and an inability to notice that class still matters; that stepping onto a private jet while fighting for energy conservation looks, well, less than consistent.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday on the environmental politics of flying on private jets referred imprecisely to John Zogby. He is an independent pollster, not a Republican pollster.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Compared with the average Gulfstream jet, a Hummer H2 can seem downright fuel efficient. (Photos by Peter Parks/Agence France-Presse-Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); POLITICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (71%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (71%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (71%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (71%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (71%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (55%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (55%); LARRY DAVID (50%); RON BURKLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (66%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



342 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: For Sale: The Ultimate Status Symbol

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
START with the obvious: the government needs money. We are running enormous deficits as far as the eye can see, and this is a constraint on spending for many good causes, including my favorite, military pay raises. Yet there are a great many wealthy people in this astoundingly rich country. There are generally believed to be at least two million millionaires even if the value of a primary residence is not considered, and perhaps as many as eight million if the home is counted. There are more billionaires than you can shake a stick at.
 These people are taxed at a much lower level than they were even a few years ago. So they're happy with that. But there is something that rich people want desperately. (I live among many rich people, so just take it from me.) They want others to know that they're rich. 
 That's why people buy Ferraris and Bentleys and Prada clothes and Cartier jewelry. That's why people travel to Cap d'Antibes and Aspen.
 But here is a revolutionary, or maybe counterrevolutionary, way to make one need meet the other: make some slight amendments in the basic laws of this great country and have the government start issuing titles of nobility.
 Well, maybe it should be a little more than that. Have the government sell titles of nobility. Look at it this way: In ancient times, kings gave out such titles in return for loyalty in wars or heroism in combat or some service to the state. Times have changed. Now, in Britain, our close cousin and good comrade in arms, titles of nobility are -- and long have been -- handed out for gifts of money to the ruling political party. So many of these were given by brewing magnates that Burke's Peerage, the main registry of nobility, came to be called ''Burke's Beerage.'' This may be changing in the ''Cool Britannia'' of Tony Blair, but the basic principle still applies.
 Here in the United States, the government can take ordinary multimillionaires -- shopping-center owners, oil-well owners, real estate developers and plastic surgeons -- and suddenly lift them above the peasants waiting in line at Alain Ducasse or trying to get a ticket to a Broadway opening. 
 Suddenly, a Joe Blow who developed a skin-care line that sells and is a nobody in Biloxi can -- for, say, $10 million -- be Baronet Blow of Biloxi, entitled to the homage that a title brings. Dr. Morton Cooperman, orthodontist to the stars' children in Beverly Hills, can for $5 million be Sir Morton of Crescent Drive.
 The way I see it, the really big titles, like duke, will go for, say, a billion dollars -- chump change to a Microsoft zillionaire. From then on, he can join an incredibly select few who can call themselves dukes -- and whose wives can ask for hair appointments for Duchess Ballmer of Seattle. A title of marquess may cost $50 million, and earl, say, $10 million, and maybe lowly millionaires can become knights for just that paltry mill.
 I don't see this system giving any special legal rights to the new nobility. There would not be a House of Lords, for example. We already have the United States Senate, a very rich man's club. This system would sell just prestige, but on a huge scale.
 And it would recognize a fact that is already glaring: In large measure, the country is already an aristocracy. Rich men and women, and the children and spouses of rich men and women, already get the plum schools and the plum cars and can run for national office. Indeed, in this election, for the first time that I can think of, there is not one candidate on the ticket of either major party who does not have at least $10 million in the bank -- and three of the four went to Yale.
 I'm not saying the nonrich can't amount to anything: look at my homies Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton. But the odds are long and getting longer in favor of the rich. Let's just recognize it and make some money off of it. The nonrich won't be prevented from seeking high office, and they can even make capital out of being working people without titles. But for those who want to be recognized for having made money or having inherited or married it, there will be that special fillip of vanity that only a title can bring.
 And on the other side of the deal, the military people who risk their lives to keep this great system going -- a system that lets the sons of mill foremen become multimillionaires by arguing in court and allows bureaucrats to become wildly rich running oil-service companies -- can get a pay raise.
 The old idea that nobility is merely ancient riches sanctified is true. But why should it be only old riches? And why not put it to good use and recognize where we are as a nation, aristocracy-wise? 
 It has already happened. Why not just give it a name?


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (87%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (60%); RETAIL PROPERTY (60%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (50%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Awards, Decorations and Honors

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%) Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



343 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 3757 words

HEADLINE: Hillbangers

BYLINE: By Matthew Brzezinski. 
Matthew Brzezinski is a contributing writer for the magazine. His book on homeland security, ''Fortress America,'' will be published next month.

 BODY:
The area around the crime scene was as picturesque as a postcard. A lazy river ran through it, the lush green mountains of Shenandoah County, Va., formed a rustic backdrop and an old wooden covered bridge and sun-bleached hayfields completed the tableau.
 The crime scene itself was another story. The body was found on July 17, 2003, by a fisherman and his son. It was badly decomposed, lying contorted in the underbrush near a brier patch on the west bank of the Shenandoah River. The age, sex and race of the victim were difficult to determine, but the body appeared to be that of a young woman. 
 Her throat had been slashed so violently that her head was almost completely severed. 
 The Shenandoah County chief deputy sheriff, Tim Carter, who was overseeing the investigators on the case, shipped the corpse to the nearest state forensic lab, about an hour's drive away, in Fairfax, Va. It turned out that the victim had indeed been young, probably in her late teens, and had suffered multiple stab wounds. The lack of water in her lungs confirmed that there was no possibility that she had been drowned and mutilated and floated downriver: she had been murdered, or at least dumped, on the spot.
 The killing shook Shenandoah in ways that can be hard for urbanites to comprehend. For weeks following the discovery of Jane Doe, her murder was the talk of the towns along Route 11 in Virginia -- from the dairy cooperative in Strasburg, to the C.E. Thompson & Son hardware store in Edinburg, to the old-fashioned lunch counter at the Walton & Smoot pharmacy in Woodstock, across Main Street from the sheriff's office. This sort of thing simply did not happen in a place where many families trace their ancestries in the region to before the Civil War, where people still take the time to stop in on their neighbors, where few people say they feel the need to lock their front doors. This was not Washington, 80 miles and a world away to the east. Folks here tended to worry more about copperheads and rattlesnakes than about knife-wielding murderers.
 The sheriff's office had one promising clue to the victim's identity: an extensive collection of tattoos on her arms, legs and torso. Carter asked a colleague to sketch some of the images -- a pair of comedy and tragedy masks, a clown smoking a marijuana cigarette, letters rendered in three-inch-high Gothic script -- and began circulating them to the media in neighboring areas with the hope that somebody would recognize them. The sketches went out to Winchester and Front Royal, and then farther afield to Fauquier, Warren and Prince William Counties, but there was no response. Soon, Carter was sending them all the way to Loudoun County, Va., and the suburbs of Washington.
 Finally, one day, Carter got a call from an investigator in the Washington metropolitan area. ''He recognized the sketches instantly,'' Carter recalls. ''They were gang tattoos.''
 The tattoos signaled the victim's membership in Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, a large street gang with ties to El Salvador that has long been a violent presence in the Hispanic neighborhoods of Washington, New York and Los Angeles. Forensic investigators were able to identify the victim as Brenda Paz, known as Smiley to her street friends, a 17-year-old member of MS-13 who had dated Denis (Rabbit) Rivera, one of the more vicious gang leaders in the Washington area. Paz, who had been a key witness in half a dozen federal cases against MS-13, had gone missing from suburban Virginia shortly before she was to testify against some of her former friends.
 At first, Carter, like the rest of the community, considered the incident to be an aberration. Paz's murder was tragic and puzzling -- what was a dead member of MS-13 doing in the Shenandoah Valley? -- but not something that threatened the well-being of people in Edinburg, Woodstock or Strasburg. A few months later, though, after Carter was elected sheriff, an informant casually mentioned to one of his investigators that it was possible to buy drugs from gang members in the county. The way Carter tells it, the passing reference floored his investigator: '''You can?' my guy asks. 'We have gang members living here?'''
 They did indeed. Before long you could spot gang-related graffiti on local barns and buildings -- and at the foot of the covered bridge in Meem's Bottom, near where Paz's body had been found.
 Carter's job, and the life of his small rural community, had suddenly become a lot more complicated.
Gangs have been a fixture of urban life in the United States for more than 150 years, making their presence known in inner-city ghettos and poor immigrant neighborhoods ever since the Irish settled the Five Points district of New York. But as Carter and other small-town cops in America have discovered over the past few years, gangs are no longer just a big-city problem.
 Gang activity has traditionally been a function of immigration and labor-migration patterns. Today, with those patterns changing -- with unskilled jobs shifting from cities to rural regions, with sprawl pushing suburbs and exurbs deeper into the countryside -- gangs are cropping up in unexpected places: tiny counties and quaint villages, farming communities and cookie-cutter developments, small towns and tourist resorts. In Toombs County, Ga., for instance, 10 Hispanic gangs roam an area marked by cotton, tobacco and onion fields, according to Art Villegas, who tracks gang activity there for the sheriff's office.
 The blue-collar jobs that do not require much training or fluency in English are increasingly found in the countryside. Thanks in part to the explosive growth of the fast-food industry and the huge agro-conglomerates that service it, giant food factories now dot pastoral America. The plants actively recruit south of the border and in poor Hispanic neighborhoods on both coasts of the United States, drawing legions of immigrants to places barely big enough to register on state maps.
 Not long ago, I met Fermin, a 25-year-old Guatemalan immigrant who moved to Woodstock from Delaware, four years ago. (Uncomfortable with being mentioned in an article about local gangs, he would be identified by only his first name.) Fermin had heard from a fellow immigrant that the poultry plants in the area were hiring and landed one of the better-paying jobs, as a crane operator, at a plant in nearby Edinburg. He moved into the Valley Vista apartments, Shenandoah County's equivalent of an inner-city barrio. ''It seemed like a good place to start a family,'' he says.
 Set at a distance from the lovingly preserved 200-year-old log homes that line Woodstock's historic district, Valley Vista's dozen or so three-story brown-brick buildings sit on the more recently developed edge of town near a car wash and a strip mall. A Hispanic grocery store sells phone cards, money orders to Mexico and Goya food products. Clean and well kept, the courtyards at Valley Vista are a far cry from the projects. The parking lot is filled with modest late-model cars, and a van from a local Pentecostal church regularly makes rounds, picking up parishioners and those enrolled in the church's free English classes.
 But beneath the surface tranquillity is a dark side to this immigrant community, as illustrated by a drunken brawl and stabbing that took place at the Valley Vista a few days before my visit. Labor migration to areas like Shenandoah has created a work force of often illegal, itinerant industrial workers who migrate from factory to factory much as California's seasonal fruit pickers move from orchard to orchard. Alienated and isolated in what are effectively rural ghettos, many immigrant workers find solace in alcohol and are easy prey for drug dealers.
 Del Hendrixson, who tours food-factory towns like Woodstock as the head of a nonprofit gang-outreach organization called Bajito Onda, or the Underground Scene, sees firsthand evidence of the disillusionment that can set in among the workers. ''When you're stuck in the middle of nowhere slaughtering beef for six or seven dollars an hour, 60 hours a week,'' she says, ''the American dream can pretty quickly turn into a nightmare.''
 As far as law enforcement can tell, MS-13 gang members arrived on the scene in Shenandoah early last year. For them, the Hispanic communities springing up around food-processing facilities across the country present an opportunity to expand their business interests -- in particular, dealing methamphetamine -- and to attract new members. (For now, the rise of rural gangs does not include African-American gangs, which remain based in large and midsize urban areas.) In addition to drug trafficking, MS-13 cells across the country engage in a range of criminal activities. In Houston, for instance, MS-13 is involved in the large-scale theft of baby formula. Some groups steal cars for chop shops or resale south of the border; others are into extortion or run prostitution rackets.
 Many rural gang members, however, are not so much drawn to the opportunities of the countryside as they are pushed out of the city. In the crowded and carved-up inner cities, competition among gangs is fierce. One block that I recently visited in the Columbia Heights neighborhood of Washington was being contested by four different groups. In big-city barrios, trespassing on another gang's turf can get you killed. But in the countryside, the territory is wide open. Gangs operate on a franchise model, and as with fast-food outlets, the closer you get to crowded city centers, the smaller the individual turf. (Think how many McDonald's restaurants there are every few blocks downtown.) In less-populated outlying areas, by contrast, a single gang can service an entire neighborhood, town or county. For an ambitious young gang member, it is easiest to move up the ranks by moving to the countryside.
 ''You recruit a couple of farm kids, and you're an instant jefe,'' or boss, says Jessie (Chuco) Chavez, a gang leader in Dallas whom Hendrixson arranged for me to interview. Of course, not every gang member in the countryside is an amateur: according to Villegas, hard-core ex-cons from California gangs, eager to avoid the consequences of that state's ''three strikes'' law, are also moving to the heartland.
 The countryside has another appealing feature: weak law enforcement. ''In small towns, the police are punks,'' says Chicocano, a former gang member and a friend of Chavez's who agreed to be identified by only his street name. ''You can have your way with them.'' The statistics seem to bear this out. Murder rates, according to the F.B.I.'s latest annual survey, have remained stable in big cities. But they have jumped in the smallest cities (those with fewer than 10,000 residents), where the police do not have the means to pursue violent offenders with the same intensity as the L.A.P.D. and N.Y.P.D. And by jumping from county to county, state to state, gang members can usually stay one step ahead of the understaffed local authorities.
 One measure of the range of jurisdictions spanned by gangs is that Brenda Paz, before her death, was helping federal prosecutors with MS-13 shootings, stabbings and armed robberies across the country. According to a recent F.B.I. report, MS-13 is thought to be active in 31 states in the United States, from Alaska to Oklahoma, the Carolinas to Colorado, and has tens of thousands of members in Honduras and El Salvador.
 Consider, too, the picture of a far-flung criminal network that emerges from the details disclosed in law-enforcement documents about Paz's murder. Jailhouse recordings of her ex-boyfriend (against whom she was expected to testify) include calls from the detention facility in Virginia where he was held, in which he said that she needed to be ''planted so hard, she would never get up.'' MS-13 members called her in Kansas City, Mo., where United States marshals from the Witness Protection Program had her stashed away in a Marriott hotel, and were presumably able to persuade her to leave the program voluntarily. The white S.U.V. that drove her to the site of her death in Virginia had license plates from Georgia.
 ''This isn't just a local issue,'' says Frank Wolf, a congressman from Virginia who has backed a number of antigang measures. ''It must be treated as a national problem.''
Like 19th-century Irish-American gangs, which arose from an immigrant community that had fled famine, MS-13 has its origins in turmoil abroad. As the brutal civil war in El Salvador was waged in the 80's, pitting leftist guerrillas against the American-backed government, more than a million Salvadorans sought refuge in the United States. Thousands literally walked much of the way to America, initially settling in the Rampart neighborhood of Los Angeles, where they were not warmly welcomed by the established Hispanic community. ''Mexican gangs picked on them mercilessly,'' says Al Valdez, a veteran gang investigator in the district attorney's office in Orange County, Calif.
 Like the Irish before them, the Salvadorans banded together to protect themselves. Salvadoran teenagers were particularly susceptible to the lure of gang life, argues Juan Romagoza, a Salvadoran community leader in Washington who runs a health clinic, because the United States government viewed Salvadoran refugees as suspect guerrilla sympathizers and made it difficult for them to get green cards. ''These kids suffer from a severe identity crisis,'' he says. ''They don't see themselves as fully American because the country is not making room for them. El Salvador is closed to them as well. They can't relate to their parents, who still think in the old ways and often don't speak English.''
 Following the end of civil war, in 1992, a second wave of immigration from El Salvador transformed MS-13. The new arrivals included veterans from both sides of the conflict. ''These people had weapons training and had seen and done terrible things,'' Valdez says. Almost immediately the level of violence escalated. While gangs typically confine themselves to fighting one another and knocking off rivals, MS-13 killed wantonly, shooting police officers and even civilians, simply to gain street cred.
 ''It was no longer about self-protection,'' Valdez says, ''but about the bragging rights of who was the biggest and baddest in town.''
 Today, what brings MS-13 to the Shenandoah is the lucrative rural market for methamphetamine, or crank. Made in trailer-park labs and the backs of barns, crank is the drug of choice in rural America. It is what you will find kids in Iowa or Idaho smoking in convenience-store parking lots on Friday nights. It is also sometimes used by Hispanic assembly-line workers in the food-processing industry, where the pressure to keep up with the line leads some to look for a chemical edge. ''Supervisors have been known to sell crank to their workers or to supply it for free in return for certain favors, such as working a second shift,'' Eric Schlosser writes in ''Fast Food Nation,'' his expose about the fast-food industry.
 Hispanic gangs do not manufacture crank, but with their national and international networks they have a natural advantage in distribution. Over the past five years, according to Valdez, they have supplanted the biker gangs that dominated the methamphetamine trade since World War II. In the Shenandoah Valley, crank has been moved by a biker gang called the Warlocks. But MS-13 is simply outhustling the competition with its immigrant work ethic.
 ''The Warlocks got high on their own supply and loafed around,'' says Carter, the sheriff. ''What amazed me was that a lot of these guys'' -- MS-13 members -- ''had jobs. They'd put in 50 hours at the poultry plant and then on weekends drive down to the Carolinas to pick up loads of meth. They certainly weren't lazy.''
When Carter discovered that gangs were moving into Shenandoah, he did a quick survey of the resources at his disposal. As sheriff, he had 56 people on his payroll. Nineteen of them manned the county jail and could not be deployed elsewhere. Of his remaining employees, many were support staff members who performed administrative work or were officers on highway and road patrol who could not be easily removed from their assigned duties. His captains were often tied up with paperwork and court proceedings. Rotating shifts winnowed his forces further still. The numbers alone were troubling, and the odds against him rose further still when the lack of Spanish speakers on his staff, extra money in his budget or firsthand experience dealing with gangs were factored in. ''We had to learn about gang history and culture virtually from scratch,'' he says.
 Carter didn't need to dig too deep to see what he was up against. MS-13's explosive growth and violent activity in the suburbs of northern Virginia was well documented. According to a Department of Justice memorandum to Attorney General John Ashcroft, in Fairfax County alone, MS-13 was responsible for most of the 700 gang-related incidents reported by the police department in 2003. In one Fairfax case, a 14-year-old stabbed a stranger to death simply to impress fellow MS-13 members. In another case, in May, MS-13 members attacked a teenager with a machete. All told, the gang's various local cliques -- there are about 30 in northern Virginia, with nearly 1,500 members -- are reportedly linked to at least half a dozen deaths in the state.
 Faced with such a dangerous adversary, Carter did something other small-town sheriffs in America tend to resist: he went public and sought outside help. Community leaders are often loath to acknowledge the presence of gangs, much less to call for reinforcements. ''They don't want to scare away tourists, risk property values or getting themselves re-elected,'' says an F.B.I. analyst in Washington, who in accordance with bureau policy, spoke on condition of anonymity. ''It's part of the reason why gang activity is underreported.''
 But Carter realized that there was institutional knowledge out there for him to tap. ''I started sending my officers for outside training,'' he says, ''and had gang intel experts come in to instruct us.'' Instruction covered the basics, including a primer on how to spot gang members. In MS-13's case, that meant getting to know its colors (blue and white), brand preferences (Nike) and local enemies (the South Side Locos). The group's hand sign (the thumb holding the two middle fingers pressed to the palm), initiation rites and the significance and placement of various identifying tattoos had to be mastered. In addition to gaining some facility with Spanish, Carter's men had to familiarize themselves with street and gang slang.
 Carter also needed to grapple with the issue of which police tactics he should adopt for fighting back. Unlike parts of Central America, the United States doesn't have laws forbidding gang membership. (In El Salvador and Honduras, by contrast, draconian new measures make gang membership punishable by up to 12 years in prison, prompting fears in Washington that thousands of Central American members of MS-13 will head north to avoid the crackdown.) And Carter could not simply conduct a mass roundup of Hispanic immigrants. Aside from being discriminatory, it would be impractical and counterproductive. In the late 90's, officials in Toombs County, Ga., tried that strategy, with poor results. ''The I.N.S. arrested hundreds of people,'' recalls Lance Hamilton, a municipal court judge in rural Georgia. ''But there was a huge outcry from assemblymen and the business community.'' Without workers, the Vidalia onions for which Toombs is best known rotted in the fields. Processing plants stood idle. The local economy sputtered. ''In the end, they allowed the workers to return to the fields to pick the crop,'' Hamilton says.
 Carter was going to have to walk the same fine line, balancing his constituents' economic interests, their expectations of safety and the rights of the local Hispanic community. The odds, he realized, were stacked against him. But he wasn't going to sit by and watch thugs take over his county.
In early May, Carter decided that it was time to send MS-13 a message. He had learned that the group's members were implicated in a drug investigation that his officers conducted in the fall of 2003, and he decided to call in the cavalry -- federal and other agencies -- for a crackdown. ''We had reached a point in that investigation,'' he says, ''where, as a small department, we had exhausted all our resources.'' It was important, he stressed, to continue to deal with MS-13 in the context of a narcotics investigation to avoid the perception that he was initiating raids on the Hispanic community more generally. He contacted a friend of his at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. ''In my experience,'' he says, ''whenever the A.T.F. gets involved, people go to jail.''
 The message was delivered to MS-13 at 2 a.m. on a brisk Monday morning, as more than 130 law-enforcement officers from a dozen state, local and federal agencies started kicking down doors at 10 Shenandoah locations, including the Valley Vista apartments, in what was one of the largest drug raids in county history. The raids lasted most of the day, and when the dust settled, crank and cocaine with a street value of half a million dollars had been seized. There were 47 people in custody (some for immigration violations), some defiantly flashing MS-13 hand signs as they were paraded in a long, manacled procession to the county jail.
 Emergency funds to finance Carter's antigang effort followed from state and federal coffers. This spring, Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia created a state task force on gangs, and thanks in part to the lobbying efforts of Frank Wolf, the Virginia congressman, the Shenandoah Valley received $500,000 from the Justice Department to create a regional gang unit.
 Since then, no new graffiti have appeared in Woodstock. Fermin, the Guatemalan crane operator, says he thinks gang members are lying low in another town, farther up the valley, where there is a large apple-juice bottling plant. But the crackdown, in the meantime, is continuing. In late June, four MS-13 members, including Denis Rivera, were indicted in the United States District Court in Alexandria, Va., for Brenda Paz's murder.
 Carter says he is relieved that Paz's killers will finally be brought to justice but harbors no illusions about seeing the last of gangs like MS-13. ''This problem,'' he says, ''is still in its infancy.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Where Her Body Was Found: Four members of MS-13 have been charged with the murder of Brenda Paz. Mug shots from left: Ismael Juarez Cisneros, Denis Rivera, Oscar Alexander Garcia-Orellana and Oscar Antonio Grande.
Fast-Food Nation: Poultry plants like this one in rural Virginia attract Hispanic workers from all over the country and beyond.
 Small-Town Barrio: The Valley Vista apartments in Woodstock, Va., home to immigrant workers, sit at the edge of town. (Photographs by Mike Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); RIVERS (78%); FORENSICS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); REFUGEES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); HARDWARE STORES (64%); CANNABIS (50%) Crime and Criminals; Gangs; Rural Areas; Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans; Crime and Criminals

ORGANIZATION: MARA SALVATRUCHA (MS-13) (59%)

PERSON: Matthew Brzezinski

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



344 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Hot Enough for Us?

BYLINE: By Al Gore. 
Al Gore, formerly vice president of the United States, is the author of ''Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit.''

 BODY:

BOILING POINT
How Politicians, Big Oil and Coal, Journalists, and Activists Are Fueling
the Climate Crisis -- and What We Can
Do to Avert Disaster.
By Ross Gelbspan.
254 pp. Basic Books. $22.
 THE blend of passionate advocacy and lucid analysis that Ross Gelbspan brings to this, his second book about global warming, is extremely readable because the author's voice is so authentic. When Gelbspan first encountered the issue as a reporter nine years ago, he writes, he had no inkling of how it would change his life. But as he put together the evidence of the global climate crisis he describes in this book, he found himself pulled inexorably to do more than simply write about it. So he now feels called to a kind of mission: to describe what is happening, to single out the specific failures and misdeeds of politicians, energy companies, environmental activists and journalists who share responsibility for our predicament, and then propose bold solutions that -- unlike more timid blueprints already on the public agenda -- would in his view actually solve the problem. 
 For a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter at the top of his game, this is a career detour requiring courage I greatly admire. Moreover, he candidly describes how, as he opened himself to the implications of what he was learning in his dogged pursuit of this story, he has undergone something of a personal transformation. He writes that it has become ''an excruciating experience to watch the planet fall apart piece by piece in the face of persistent and pathological denial.'' He describes how mountain glaciers around the world are melting, most of them rapidly. And he cites early examples of environmental refugees like those created in recent weeks in Bangladesh, vulnerable to catastrophic flooding as sea levels rise.
 In the course of this transformation, Gelbspan has become a different kind of reporter, one who recalls the great reforming journalists of the first decade of the 20th century -- Upton Sinclair, Ida Tarbell, Lincoln Steffens and others -- who not only reported on political corruption and corporate excesses but connected them to larger destructive patterns that had developed in the economy and politics of their time. They agitated for policy reforms, many of which were enacted into statutes when they became part of the progressive movement's agenda: antitrust laws, the Food and Drug Administration, railroad regulation, wage and hour laws, workmen's compensation and child labor laws, to name a few.
 It is in that spirit that Gelbspan pursues solutions for climate change that can ''also begin to reverse some very discouraging and destructive political and economic dynamics as well.'' 
 Part of what makes this book important is its indictment of the American news media's coverage of global warming for the past two decades. Indeed, when the author investigates why the United States is virtually the only advanced nation in the world that fails to recognize the severity of this growing crisis, he concludes that the news coverage is ''a large reason for that failure.'' 
 At a time when prominent journalists are writing mea culpas for allowing themselves to be too easily misled in their coverage of the case for war in Iraq, Gelbspan presents a devastating analysis of how the media have been duped and intimidated by an aggressive and persistent campaign organized and financed by coal and oil companies. He recounts, for example, a conversation with a top television network editor who was reluctant to run stories about global warming because a previous story had ''triggered a barrage of complaints from the Global Climate Coalition'' -- a fossil fuel industry lobbying group -- ''to our top executives at the network.'' 
 He also describes the structural changes in the news media, like increased conglomerate ownership, that have made editors and reporters more vulnerable to this kind of intimidation -- and much less aggressive in pursuing inconvenient truths. 
 Gelbspan's first book, ''The Heat Is On'' (1997), remains the best, and virtually only, study of how the coal and oil industry has provided financing to a small group of contrarian scientists who began to make themselves available for mass media interviews as so-called skeptics on the subject of global warming. In fact, these scientists played a key role in Gelbspan's personal journey on this issue. When he got letters disputing the facts in his very first article, he was at first chastened -- until he realized the letters were merely citing the industry-funded scientists. He accuses this group of ''stealing our reality.''
 In this new book, Gelbspan focuses his toughest language by far on the coal and oil industries. After documenting the largely successful efforts of companies like ExxonMobil to paralyze the policy process, confuse the American people and cynically '' 'reposition global warming as theory rather than fact,' '' as one strategy paper put it, he concludes that ''what began as a normal business response by the fossil fuel lobby -- denial and delay -- has now attained the status of a crime against humanity.'' 
 I wouldn't have said it quite that way, but I'm glad he does, and his exposition of the facts certainly seems to support his charge. 
 Gelbspan also criticizes the current administration, documenting its efforts to ''demolish the diplomatic foundations'' of the international agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, and describing its approach to energy and environmental policy as ''corruption disguised as conservatism.'' Again, he backs up his charge with impressive research. Moreover, his critique is far from partisan. He takes on environmental groups for doing way too little and for focusing on their own institutional agendas rather than the central challenges. 
 When Gelbspan addresses the subject of solutions, he first gives a detailed analysis of all the significant plans that have been offered, and then endorses a maximalist approach called the World Energy Modernization Plan, developed six years ago by an ad hoc group that met at the Harvard Medical School. His basic argument is that it is far too late in the game to waste time on strategies that might be more politically feasible but don't actually do enough to begin to solve the problem. 
 He may be right, but the plan's authors, though distinguished, remind me of Sam Rayburn's remark that he'd feel a lot better ''if just one of them had ever run for sheriff.''
 THE fact is, many who have worked on this problem believe it may be essential to begin with a binding agreement among nations and then, after governments and industries shift direction, toughen the goals. That is the formula used successfully in the Montreal Protocol in 1987 to begin reducing the emissions that cause destruction of stratospheric ozone. Three years later, the standards were dramatically tightened in the London Amendments, and by then most resistance had dissipated. 
 The Kyoto Protocol (which may soon become legally effective if Russia ratifies it, even though the United States has not) has been criticized by many, including Gelbspan, for not going nearly far enough to reduce the emissions that cause global warming. But it has simultaneously been condemned from the opposite side for going too far. If Kyoto does take effect, we may find that after industries and countries begin to comply, it will be easier to expand the limits of what is politically possible. 
 But Gelbspan's point is a powerful one and is well argued. And he has, in any case, performed a great service by writing an informative book on a difficult but crucial subject.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a review in the Book Review on Aug. 15 about ''Boiling Point,'' by Ross Gelbspan, on global warming, referred incorrectly to the author's participation in a Pulitzer Prize. As he writes in the book, he was not among the staff members of The Boston Globe named in 1984 for the prize, in local investigative specialized reporting about race relations. The Globe, however, designated him a ''co-recipient'' because of his editing of the series. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Matthew Bandsuch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); POLITICS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); INDICTMENTS (70%); MOUNTAINS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (60%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (60%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); CORRUPTION (60%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (50%); CHILD LABOR (50%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (50%) 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%) Al Gore; Ross Gelbspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



345 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; YOUR HOME; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Building a House? You Can Get a Loan.

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
IT'S no secret that lenders will provide money to people willing to mortgage their homes. But what happens when the house hasn't been built yet?
 ''You take out a construction loan,'' said John G. Hall, a Staten Island real estate lawyer. 
 With such a loan, as with a regular mortgage, the house is used as security. But there are some issues that make construction loans more complicated than ordinary mortgages. 
 With construction loans, he said, the money is lent in installments (sometimes there is an initial payment of up to 10 percent). In some cases, the timing of the installments is linked to the percentage of the work completed. For example, the lender may agree to provide 20 percent of the total when 20 percent of the work is done. 
 Some construction loans, he said, link advances to the completion of specific elements of construction. The loan may provide that 20 percent will be advanced when excavation and foundation work are complete. While either method will get the house built, he said, there is the potential for a problem. 
 ''The borrower has to be extremely careful to make sure that the stages of payments to the builder set forth in the contract coincide with the payments he is receiving from the bank,'' Mr. Hall said. ''If they don't, the builder could be expecting money that the owner isn't getting from the bank.''
 Jud Spangler, construction manager for M & T Bank in Chadds Ford, Pa., said that borrowers should look for construction financing that automatically converts into a permanent mortgage. With such a loan, Mr. Spangler said, borrowers can hedge against fluctuating interest rates. 
 ''You can lock in your rate at the time you take out the construction loan or you can let the rate float and make a lock-in decision later,'' he said. Interest rates on construction loans are generally one percentage point higher than on permanent financing.
 Another benefit of construction-to-permanent financing, he said, is that such a loan requires only one closing. Borrowers who take out only a construction loan, he said, have to go through a second closing to refinance to a permanent loan when construction is complete. 
 Robert Unkel, a vice president of the New York Mortgage Company, said that people buying from a developer might benefit by arranging their own construction financing rather than leaving the financing to the builder. ''When a buyer takes out the construction mortgage, the lender becomes the buyer's quality-control point,'' he said, explaining that since the lender conducts an inspection before advancing any additional money, the lender can ensure that the builder isn't cutting corners. 
 Mr. Unkel said that while the borrower will pay interest whether he borrows the money directly or it is included in the builder's costs, the interest can be tax-deductible if the mortgage is in the borrower's name. 
 David Eagan, a real estate lawyer in East Hampton, N.Y., said borrowers should also realize that the finished product almost always costs more than expected. 
 ''Cost overruns are one of the biggest risks in construction financing,'' Mr. Eagan said, noting that it is not unusual for a project to cost 10 to 20 percent more than the amount in the contract. So, he said, the buyer should make sure the loan allows flexibility. ''Some lenders will give you an allowance for a certain percentage of overrun,'' he said. ''But some won't give you any leeway. And when that happens, you either have to apply for a new loan or take the money out of your own pocket.'' 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); INSPECTIONS (71%); QUALITY CONTROL (60%) Housing; Mortgages; Credit

PERSON: Jay Romano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



346 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; HURRICANE CHARLEY: THE INSURANCE TOLL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Storm's Economic Impact Could Surpass $20 Billion

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Damage inflicted by Hurricane Charley as it ripped across the midsection of Florida on Friday and early yesterday could exceed $20 billion, making it one of the most costly storms in history, economic analysts said.
 Karen Clark, the chief executive of AIR Worldwide, a Boston firm that provides damage assessments for insurance companies, said some of the most severe destruction came from surging seas sweeping across the barrier islands and beaches of Florida's Gulf Coast in the vicinity of Punta Gorda as the hurricane first made landfall.
 But Ms. Clark and field representatives of insurance companies said Orlando, with its glistening downtown office towers, Walt Disney World and other huge theme parks, was also hit hard even though the storm's gusts were diminishing as it moved through the center of the state and skimmed past Daytona Beach on its way to the Atlantic Ocean. 
 ''We have a swath of damage across the state,'' she said. ''Lee and Charlotte Counties on the west coast were the hardest hit. But the damage in Orlando is also significant.''
 Hundreds of house trailers were destroyed in Port Charlotte and surrounding Charlotte County, said Loretta Worters, a spokeswoman for the Insurance Information Institute, who is monitoring developments from New York for her trade group. Ms. Worters said that government buildings in the county suffered heavy damage and that there were reports yesterday morning that fires had broken out in the ruins of some houses near the town of Arcadia in De Soto County. She said that a hospital in Arcadia was badly damaged and that the Turner Agri-Civic Center there, where concerts and sports events had been held, was destroyed. 
 The hurricane weakened moving into the Carolinas, and Ms. Clark estimated that it might cause several hundred million more in damages there and farther up the coast. Hurricane Charley may be the second-most devastating storm in modern times after Hurricane Andrew, which battered South Florida in 1992 at a cost of more than $25 billion. 
 RMS, a California company that also assesses storm damage for insurance companies, estimated late Friday that the cost of Hurricane Charley to insurers would be about $5 billion. 
 A much smaller portion of the damage of Hurricane Charley will be covered by insurance than with Andrew, industry experts said, because flooding, for which most people do not have coverage, has been more extensive in this storm and also because the insurance industry has shifted a significant portion of hurricane damage costs to homeowners, businesses and state government.
 Ms. Clark estimated losses to the insurance industry could be $6 billion to $10 billion in Florida. That compares with $15.5 billion in insured losses in Hurricane Andrew, which in today's dollars would come to about $20 billion. 
 ''The biggest losses are going to be from storm surges,'' Ms. Clark said. Standard insurance policies on homes and businesses do not offer protection from flooding, and only one in four homeowners in the most likely flood areas buys the limited coverage provided by the federal government. But Floridians have been the most willing buyers of flood insurance. Forty percent of the 4.5 million flood insurance policies in America have been sold there.
 The federal government started providing flood insurance years ago after commercial insurers refused to, saying the only likely customers would be people who expected to suffer a loss. In such a situation, the insurers would lose the ability to spread their costs over a wide range of customers, many of whom would have no losses. When losses occurred in a larger group, they would be somewhat random.
 But the insurance industry began working hard to limit coverage and cut potential losses after the stunning expenses of Hurricane Andrew, which temporarily staggered some giants like State Farm and Allstate and drove some smaller insurers out of business.
 Now all the initial costs of a hurricane must be borne by customers along the Atlantic and Gulf Seaboard. 
 In that huge sweep of territory, the insurers have begun imposing deductibles of 1 to 5 percent on policyholders in place of the widespread deductible of $500 that most homeowners in America choose. The result is that the owner of a $100,000 home with a 5 percent deductible pays the first $5,000 in losses rather than $500.
 In many cases, the insurers have also stopped covering hurricane damage along the coasts and, instead, managed to transfer the risky business to state funds. The fund in Florida charges relatively high premiums for limited coverage.
 Florida has also established a fund of $15 billion, partly through contributions from the insurance companies, that is intended to pay most of the insured losses over $4.5 billion. 
 As dawn broke yesterday in Florida, hundreds of claims adjusters were making their way through the wreckage of the state, beginning detailed assessments of the damage and handing out checks for thousands of dollars to their customers for temporary living expenses and emergency repairs. 
 They produced some of the earliest accounts of the hurricane's fierce handiwork. 
 ''It looks bad,'' said Chris Neal, a spokesman for State Farm. He rode out the storm in his five-bedroom ranch house in Winter Haven with his wife, Laura, a claims adjuster, and their daughter, Morgan, 4, who dressed up for the event in her favorite costume, the kind of clothes worn by Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz.
 ''There is very significant damage in Winter Haven,'' Mr. Neal said. ''We haven't had electricity since seven o'clock last night. There are lots of roofs blown off, street signs and traffic lights down. I drove past a 7-Eleven this morning and all the signs were down and the canopy over the gas pumps had collapsed. There are a lot of trees down. They can do the most significant damage.''
 In Winter Haven and other central Florida towns, Mr. Neal said, most people did not have storm shutters nor did they cover their windows with plywood as South Floridians usually do when they hear a hurricane is coming. For one thing, hurricanes do not normally chop through the center of the state the way Hurricane Charley did and, for another, it did not follow its predicted route. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (79%); DAMAGES (79%); WEATHER (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); BEACHES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); EXECUTIVES (57%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); SPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



347 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends: Slaves for Vacation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Europe Ponders the Meaning of Life

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: Frankfurt 

 BODY:
IT is August in Europe, which means if you're not a lifeguard, an Olympic athlete or a Florentine gelato vendor, you're probably on vacation. Paris, Berlin and other busy metropolises have emptied out, as the natives indulge in an annual European rite: the long summer siesta.
 This year, though, the Germans and French may not find much peace as they kick back in their Tuscan villas and Majorcan beach houses. Their beloved European lifestyle, with its 35-hour workweek, frequent holidays and six-week vacations, is under threat as never before. 
 In France, the government of Jacques Chirac has weighed repealing the country's mandatory 35-hour week, which would allow employers to demand longer hours from the rank and file. In Germany, the industrial giants DaimlerChrysler and Siemens recently muscled their unions into signing contracts that lengthen work hours without increasing pay.
 Is Europe, the reluctant cradle of Calvinism, being forced to adopt the Protestant work ethic of the United States?
 ''It's not that we're becoming more Anglo-Saxon,'' said Frank Schirrmacher, an editor and publisher of the German paper, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. ''It's that we are having an encounter with reality.''
 But while Europeans have grown to recognize the economic forces that are driving the longer work hours -- competition from low-wage countries in Eastern Europe and Asia; an aging population with fewer people in the labor force; the crushing financial burden of Europe's generous welfare benefits -- this doesn't mean that they will accept the social costs, at least not without a fight.
 For Europeans, a proper balance between work and play is more than a fringe benefit of prosperity. It is central to a way of life that most people here, whether they confess it or not, believe is superior to the American one: less harried, less materialistic, less dehumanizing.
 With more free time, the thinking here goes, Europeans can better nurture their families, contribute to their communities and cultivate their minds. Americans, caught in the frantic pursuit of success, and the McMansions and S.U.V.'s that come with it, don't have time for such a rich life.
 ''Americans define freedom as autonomy and mobility, which requires amassing wealth,'' said Jeremy Rifkin, an American writer who has published a book with the title ''The European Dream: How Europe's Vision of the Future Is Eclipsing the American Dream,'' which makes clear his bias. ''Europeans define freedom in community -- in belonging, not belongings. They put greater store on leisure and even idleness. We consider idleness to be almost a sin, like sloth.''
 It is tempting to dismiss the European model in favor of the American one, by pointing to the faster economic growth and superior productivity of the United States since the mid-1990's. But the frenetic pace of life takes a human toll that does not show up in economic statistics.
 For years, stressed-out Americans have fled to Europe for its gentler ways. 
 Ted Gerstl, an organizational psychologist from Los Angeles, quit his job and moved to Tuscany in 1996, where he and his wife now run a bed-and-breakfast that overlooks the Mediterranean. 
 Europe's emphasis on leisure time, he says, allows even manual laborers to develop themselves more than Americans. For example, his gardener, he says, is also a sculptor. ''Italians who are not professionals often have more knowledge of the arts than American professionals,'' Mr. Gerstl said. ''They'll spend a Sunday exploring a church with a fresco they've heard about.''
 To some here, the debate over work hours cannot be disentangled from a broader debate about what it means to be a European. The shorter workweek was designed to reduce the high unemployment rate in Germany, France and elsewhere by spreading the work among more people.
 Mr. Chirac and others argue that the 35-hour week has done little to ease joblessness, and has left Europe enervated. But politicians haven't persuaded people to support more of a free-market system, with its Darwinian separation of winners and losers.
 SOME argue that longer work hours, far from making Europe more productive, would bring it ruin. ''If you would work in Europe like you do in America, with only two weeks of vacation, a lot of the tourism industry would collapse,'' said Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a one-time student radical who represents France in the European Parliament. ''Our society is organized around work and play.''
 The question, of course, is whether that society is sustainable. In many ways, Europe's work habits are an anomaly of the postwar era -- a product of the happy confluence of peace, new technologies and a youthful population. With the United States providing a global security umbrella, Europeans were able to skip the arduous work of maintaining a military-industrial complex.
 Now, with a rapidly aging population, the competition of a global economy and new military burdens from Afghanistan to the Balkans, young Europeans know they will have to work more than their parents did. ''We'll remember the time between 1950 and 2000 as a kind of paradise,'' said Mr. Schirrmacher, who has just published a book in Europe on the costs of Germany's aging population.
 ''We are the victims of an ideology,'' he said, referring to Europe's obsession with leisure. ''It's almost like the Stalin posters in the Soviet Union, with all the happy workers at play.''
 A sobering thought, which some Europeans might well dispute. Just not until next month, please.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about threats to leisure time in Europe misidentified the country Daniel Cohn-Bendit represents in the European Parliament. Since June he has represented Germany, not France, which he represented in the past.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The familiar empty feeling in Paris. (Photo by Owen Franken/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORK WEEK (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PUBLISHING (71%); WRITERS (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); ETHICS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); AGING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (59%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (59%); SIE (LSE) (59%); SIE (FRA) (59%); SIE (BIT) (59%); SI (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (59%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



348 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: Back to When Kids Were Kids

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Kevin Cahillane and Jane Gordon contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
THERE was a time, at least in the misty land of memory, when there was a clear line of demarcation between the last day of school and the first day of summer vacation. Walking out of the schoolhouse door, a child felt that moment of liberation from the social and academic pressures of school as keenly as a convict released from jail.
 Summer was the time for sleeping late, digging in the dirt, roaming the neighborhood on a bike, playing kick the can and war. Summer was down time, when children did not have to do, they could just be. 
 But for a generation of children, the line between the end of school and the beginning of summer became steadily fuzzier. Summer turned into a continuation of the rest of the year, a season of expensive sleepaway camps, sports camps, academic enrichment programs and globe-trotting adventures. Only the uncool, the disorganized and families with no other options kept their children at home, dependent on their own wit and imagination to keep busy. 
 Yet across the suburbs, some people say a counter-trend is developing, a movement to go back to the unabashedly ordinary, low-pressure summers that parents remember from their own childhoods: summers of catching fireflies, getting to know cousins and visiting grandparents. 
 To some degree, parents say, they are rebelling against the high cost of summer camps. But a more subtle cultural change may be in the air, a conviction that the competition to turn summer into an extension of the school year, an endless race to get into Harvard, has gotten out of hand. People are tired, they say, of summertime one-upmanship. They are exhausted by the effort to find a summer activity that will look good on a college application. And they are no longer convinced that getting into the right summer camp is important to their children's future.
 ''We did do a lot of the sort of busy suburban summer life at one time,'' said Judy Rintoul, who is raising two children, Max, 10, and Emily, 12, in the central Connecticut town of Portland.
 ''The stress of running around and the competitiveness of being in those programs was just not what we were looking for, and we found that being more selective about what we took them to in the summer ended up being more fun and more relaxing. We just felt that it built our family in new ways. It gives us more time to do things with each other, to learn about each other, to learn about ourselves.''
 The Rintoul family's retreat into summer domesticity began with Ms. Rintoul's retirement four years ago from her job as an employment litigator. During a trial, she found that she could be working 15 hours a day and was unable to control when she was home. She'd be sending her children to bed at 7 p.m. just so she could get them out of the way while she went back to work.
 Summer camps became a form of day care. ''I had to find something for them to do,'' she said, while she and her husband, David, also a lawyer, were at work. Her children went to art camps, sports camps and writing camps, and Ms. Rintoul had to start enrolling them in these camps as early as January.
 ''It was exhausting,'' she said. ''They had back-to-back camps -- some sleepaway, some day camps, some half-day camps. All the weeks and hours and dropoff and pickup times had to match.''
 Three years ago, she started home schooling her children. This year, it seemed a natural extension of home schooling to also keep them home for the summer. They putter around the garden, read, play on the computer and have friends over. They go to the theater. The only structured activity is music lessons.
 ''This is the kind of time when kids think about who they are and how things work,'' Ms. Rintoul said, ''the time when they generate questions about the world.''
 Ms. Rintoul acknowledged that as her children reach high-school age, they might feel more pressure to find summer activities that they can show off on a college application. But she is not sure she'll give in.
 ''It's not enough to be smart, it's not enough to be wealthy, it's not enough to be good-looking anymore,'' she said. ''Even those three things together are not enough anymore. All these people putting their children's noses to the grindstone are still not guaranteed that at the end of that they're going to have a successful, well-adjusted, happy adult. Maybe my children won't be the most competitive people, but they'll have things to offer, and they'll be unique things.''
 Aleaze Hodgens and her husband, Gerry, a retired New York City firefighter turned teacher, are raising their three children, Jack, 11, Joe, 12, and Jean, 14, in East Hampton. ''We have the bay on one side of us and the ocean on the other side, so we're really in a summer camp,'' Ms. Hodgens said, explaining why she felt no need to send the children elsewhere. 
 She and her husband limit computers, video games and television to two hours a day. The children play penny poker almost every night and do a lot of chores -- washing the car, splitting wood, doing the laundry. ''If you can work a Nintendo, you can certainly operate a washing machine,'' she tells them.
 Ms. Hodgens tends bar in the evening and her daughter, Jean, buses tables in the same restaurant.
 The boys went to Boy Scout camp for a week, and Jean went on a mission trip for their church. But other than that, Ms. Hodgens hesitates to send her children off to spend the summer with strangers. ''You wonder what kind of influence they're going to be getting while they're there,'' she said.
 Emeline and Dave Thornell keep their two children, Sydney, 9, and Aidan, 5, engaged over the summer simply by opening the front door. Their street in Summit, N.J., had 43 school-age children the last time someone thought to count.
 ''It's like it was when we were growing up,'' Mrs. Thornell said. ''Everyone on the block just goes outside and plays and people talk to each other on the stoops. These days, everything has to be structured and there's this camp and that camp. I mean, did you ever go on a play date?''
 Mr. Thornell has added homework to his children's summer itineraries. Every afternoon, Sydney and Aidan retire to their rooms to read books, write letters, draw pictures and otherwise engage their creative and intellectual energies.
 While Sydney is passionate about dance and Aidan about sports, the highlight of the summer has been playing with the two new neighbor children next door.
 ''I wait at the window for them to come outside,'' Sydney said. When they do, the four children go from house to house, running through sprinklers, watching ''Tom & Jerry'' videos and getting their share of scrapes and bruises.
 While Mr. Thornell, a chemist for Northeast Laboratories in New York City, and Mrs. Thornell, a cardiac nurse at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, both work full-time, they have stay-at-home children thanks to flexible work schedules and a reliable babysitter. 
 Kathy Coleman, who lives in Scarsdale, sells a line of children's clothing from her home and can scale back her work during the summer to spend more time with her children, Emma, 5, and Julia, 9. They were on the town swim team, but only for part of the summer, which otherwise has consisted of going to the town pool, the library or the beach and doing chores around the house, like painting the bathroom apple green.
 Ms. Coleman describes herself as ''anti-sleepaway camp.'' ''I didn't go to nursery school,'' she said. ''I didn't go to summer school, and I live a decent life now. My kids have had so much more than I had growing up. I guess I just don't want to wreck it by making them do something every minute of the day.''
 For other parents, like Ann Bonini, who lives in Canton, Conn., summer is a juggling act. Ms. Bonini works part-time as a bookkeeper at Hartford Florist Supply, which is run by her husband, Richard. She often takes her children, Hannah, 5, Henry, 8, and Olivia, 10, to work with her, and they work, too. ''We fill out a time sheet,'' Henry said. ''And we clean walls and weed.''
 Henry admitted that the summer days can be long, and said he sometimes wishes he could go to camp. But his mother said they moved to their neighborhood of front porches, rolling lawns and smooth driveways so the children would have a place to play. ''Camps are not necessary here,'' she said.
 Should parents send their children away for the summer? That depends on what those children have been doing for the rest of the year, said Ester S. Buchholz, a professor of applied psychology at New York University and the author of ''The Call of Solitude: Alonetime in a World of Attachment'' (Simon and Schuster, 1997).
 Some children do need a break, because their lives have been too structured, too pressured, Dr. Buchholz said. ''Our culture these days is very into not wasting a moment's time,'' she said. ''We must teach our children everything under the sun starting from Day One. But if our thoughts are always monitored and programmed by others, then how do we built our own judgment, our own sense of who we are and our personal integrity?''
 There is such a thing, she said, as too much stimulation. And constant activity can become a way of avoiding independent thinking. If a camp counselor is always telling children what to do next, there's no need for them to be creative.
 ''If you look at the lives of the people who have been the most productive, if you look at the Einstein or the Mozart, they had a lot of time, a lot of space and quiet,'' Dr. Buchholz said. ''It's sort of funny that we want to emulate them, but we're actually not.''
 On the other hand, she said, the overstructured life seems to be a problem for affluent children more than for poor children. It's those who can't afford to travel or to take music and art lessons who need summer camp the most, and who are least likely to get it.
 Still, even for poor families, there are compensations to staying close to home. They are, for instance, more likely to rely on relatives to take care of their children. Barbara Hicks, who is retired from working in a laundry and is raising her two granddaughters, Sasha, 15, and Shamira, 14, in Hartford, sees summer as a time for the girls to spend time with their network of cousins and their older sister. The bonds between the cousins, Ms. Hicks said, grow stronger with each passing summer.
 In some places, government officials have tried to strip away the economic barriers that keep children home when they would rather be in camp.
 Kate Murray, the Town of Hempstead supervisor, estimates that 2,500 children from 5 to 13 years old are participating in free town recreational programs this summer, and another 10,000 are taking swimming lessons. ''Most of the time kids can ride their bike and get to a pool,'' she said. ''The accessibility is there. We offer a little bit of independence for kids growing up. They can spread their wings and be in a very safe environment.''
 And every time she visits a town pool, she said, she feels as if she were a child again, back in that misty land of memory, when she was free to be and not to do.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ALEAZE HODGENS, center, of East Hampton, her mother, Jean, and Ms. Hodgens's husband, Gerry, gather the family for games of penny poker, and make sure their children do some chores. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Emeline and Dave Thornell of Summit, N.J., say their children Aidan, left, and Sydney, have plenty to do. ''Everyone on the block just goes outside and plays and people talk to each other,'' Mrs. Thornell said. (Photo by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Felipe Galindo)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); LITIGATION (76%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (73%) Families and Family Life; Life Styles; Suburbs; Travel and Vacations; Children and Youth

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



349 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: A Year Later, Lessons From the Blackout

BYLINE: By PETER FOX-PENNER. 
Peter Fox-Penner, a senior official at the Department of Energy from 1993 to 1996, is chairman of the Brattle Group, a consulting firm that advises utilities.

 BODY:
On Aug. 14, 2003, North America experienced the largest electrical blackout ever. An estimated 50 million Americans lost power for some period, with economic losses estimated to have reached $12 billion. Occurring less than two years after the Sept. 11 attacks, the event again pointed out our vulnerability to large, unseen forces. 
 In the wake of the blackout, New Yorkers and the rest of America learned -- to their amazement -- that the rules for maintaining electric reliability are voluntary, with no penalties for violations. This system worked well when the utility industry was heavily regulated, but now it is badly outdated. Last year, 444 violations of these reliability rules were reported, but not one of the violators could be punished or sanctioned. 
 The federal government and industry investigated the causes of the blackout and recommended preventive measures. The report's top recommendation was to make reliability rules mandatory and enforceable -- a change requiring federal legislation.
 One would have thought that all this would galvanize federal action to enact mandatory rules. One would have thought wrong. Instead, the Bush administration insisted on bundling reliability rules into its omnibus energy bill, reasoning that the importance of reliability rules would get the package passed more easily. But the package -- famously derided by Senator John McCain as a bill of ''Hooters and looters'' has languished, and with it, progress on reliability rules.
 As much as it needs new rules, the power industry also needs clear regulatory policies and an end to the discord that has plagued the power investment climate for a decade. Grid owners and operators need fair and effective rules that promote or even require transmission investment. In this area the administration's energy bill not only falls short, it may actually make matters worse. The bill prevents the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission from ''standardizing'' its policies, creates federal authority to force the siting of transmission lines, and provides permanent transmission entitlements to existing transmission holders that are guaranteed to be deeply contentious. It also calls for making several major policy rules in an absurdly compressed period of time. In short, the bill sends uncertain and perhaps even contradictory signals about the climate for grid investment. Wall Street is distinctly unimpressed, and that should worry us.
 While federal legislation is stalled, the industry has taken some initiative. The industry's reliability association has pushed to improve the clarity and enforcement of standards and is increasing its audits of member utilities. In its most recent audit from last year's blackout, it took FirstEnergy Corporation to task for a series of operational failures that allowed the blackout to spread across the Northeast and Midwest. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which has no formal jurisdiction, and state regulatory commissions, which do, have both increased their oversight about as much as they can. In New York, the industry has strongly focused on reliability for decades, but it, too, is limited by federal inaction and the difficulties of supplying power to the metropolitcan region, the energy-hungry corner of the state. A recent audit of the New York Independent System Operator, which manages the state's power grid, found that its preparedness for reliability emergencies was well above average. At the same time, however, the operator's own chief executive reported that progress on building new grid capacity for the region was too slow, and that federal reliability rules were his highest priority. 
 The rest of the nation is, if anything, less vigilant than New York. Many utilities have increased their transmission budgets, but the projects are most small or local. After a nationwide review, one energy consultant, Eric Hirst, recently found that the amount of transmission capacity per unit of power generated was expected to decline 11 percent in the coming decade. And this follows a decade in which power demand has grown 2.7 percent a year while transmission grew only about 0.7 percent annually, leaving an estimated $50 billion investment shortfall. Increasing grid capacity is the top concern of utilities worldwide. 
 The issue is not simply building more, it is building smarter. Our electric grid needs a comprehensive redesign led at the federal level. The North American power network -- the world's single largest machine -- was designed and built in bits and pieces to serve a system of local regulated utilities. It is not designed or controlled to facilitate the tenfold growth in power trading that has occurred in the United States in the past decade. Important new grid technologies are being tested and sometimes used, but redesigning and rebuilding the grid will require a coordinated effort with associated financing.
 We can keep the lights on in America and improve the utility sector, but it will take much more than mandatory reliability rules. We need leadership at the federal level, and lots of it, and we need a stable regulatory and investment framework. Legislation will start the marathon, but only a new design and new investment will finish it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); ENERGY SITING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (84%)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (51%) Peter Fox-Penner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Northeastern States (US); New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



350 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Oil Could Clog Growth's Motor

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE Consumer Price Index was rising at an annual rate of 4.9 percent through the first half of the year, with the energy sector up at a 36 percent annual rate -- the fastest pace since January 1974, at the end of the Arab oil boycott.
 Gasoline prices were rising even faster, at a 68.6 annual rate nationally and 71.2 percent in the New York metropolitan area. 
 Those figures are threatening, especially because the economy could slow further in the future. 
 Federal Reserve policy makers still do not seem overly concerned. Last week, they raised their benchmark short-term interest rate by a quarter point, to 1.5 percent, the second such move since June, as a precaution against rising prices. In their statement, they said the economy appeared ''poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion going forward.'' And, they added, while inflation is ''somewhat elevated this year,'' some of the ''rise in prices seems to reflect transitory factors.''
 Energy price spurts have been even faster in the past. In the six months that ended in March 1974, seasonally adjusted, energy prices were climbing at an annual rate of 57.5 percent. At the time, the overall C.P.I. was rising at an annual rate of 11.8 percent, more than twice the current pace.
 During the crisis in the Persian Gulf in 1990, the six-month annual rate of increase in the C.P.I.'s energy sector jumped to 32.2 percent in November, just after oil hit a peak of $40.42 a barrel in October. The overall C.P.I. was climbing at a rate of 7.3 percent then.
 One big difference between then and now is that the 1973-1974 and 1990 oil spurts came during recessions. In the first quarter of 1974, the gross domestic product was falling at an annual rate of 3.4 percent; the economy was declining at a 3 percent pace in the fourth quarter of 1990.While the economy has slowed recently, it still grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the second quarter.
 Of course, the threat is that the price of oil -- which hit $46.58 on Friday -- will stay around $45 a barrel for some time and slow growth so much that there is no inflationary threat at all. Crude oil was priced above $40 a barrel for only two days in 1990; it has been above $40 for 36 days so far in this cycle. In 1990, oil sold above $35 a barrel for 24 days, compared with 121 this year.
 The C.P.I. for July, which will be released on Tuesday, is likely to rise 0.2 percent, according to Bloomberg. But if the index jumps more than that, investors could be less worried than might be expected. 
 That's because high oil prices may already be slowing economic growth -- and thereby curbing inflation -- more than Fed policy.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the monthly change in Consumer Price Index from 2003 to projected 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



351 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2435 words

HEADLINE: Racino. Get to Know the Word.

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

DATELINE: OCEANPORT 

 BODY:
ON a gorgeous Sunday at Monmouth Park, in a small room lined with bound horse-racing records from another century, Governor McGreevey was talking about the good old days of the sport of kings. ''There was a golden age of racing in this state,'' the governor said as he announced a plan to bring the Breeder's Cup championships -- one of racing's most prestigious events -- to Monmouth in 2007. ''We want to reclaim that golden age.''
 Several dozen furlongs away, sitting in the track's crowded grandstand, two horse owners, Michael Harrison of Chester and Dr. Alan Furst of Morristown, had their own ideas about reviving the state's racing industry. ''All the components are here for better racing,'' said Dr. Furst, taking his eyes away from his binoculars for a moment. ''It all has to do with purses. Money from other forms of gambling would mean bigger purses.''
 Mr. Harrison, president of the Thoroughbred Breeders Association of New Jersey, was more blunt: ''We should be getting slots, too.'' 
 More than ever, the health of New Jersey's racing industry is inextricably linked to the fortunes of Atlantic City's casinos. These two competitors for the gambling dollar, having eyed each other suspiciously for decades, might well be on the verge of a partnership that could drastically change the racing experience in New Jersey. 
 It all comes down to slot machines, or, to use a government-speak euphemism, video lottery terminals. The racing industry, which accounts for 36,000 jobs in the state, wants them. The casino industry, which employs 45,000 people and spreads millions of dollars around the state each year, has been opposed to them for years. 
 But in a compromise that could change the gambling landscape in New Jersey, Governor McGreevey recently signed legislation giving the state-run Sports and Exposition Authority the power to lease the two tracks it owns, the Meadowlands and Monmouth Park. After years of battling declining crowds, the demise of Garden State Race Track, and a near non-existent calendar at Atlantic City Race Course, the state is ready to get out of the racing business.
 Moreover, George R. Zoffinger, president and chief executive of the Sports and Exposition Authority, confirmed that several casino operators were among the 17 organizations that have already expressed interest in bidding for the tracks. Churchill Downs Inc., which operates the famed track that is home to the Kentucky Derby, and the Magna Entertainment Corporation, which manages Santa Anita in California, Gulfstream Park in Florida and others around the country, are also believed to be interested in leasing the two New Jersey tracks. 
 Mr. Zoffinger, citing confidentiality agreements, declined to identify the interested casino companies, but he said he expected the industry ''to take a hard look at whether or not they want to be the operators of the tracks.''
 ''I can tell you that there will be aggressive bids for our properties from the casinos,'' he said. ''If they decide to do that, slot machines will not be far behind, and that will keep the racing business competitive.''
 Throughout the country -- and particularly in the states bordering New Jersey -- racetracks are eagerly converting their poorly attended facilities to mini-casinos, known popularly as racinos, by offering slot machines as well as pari-mutuel wagering. The increase in revenue has meant bigger purses, quality fields and a more prosperous industry. But in New Jersey, horse racing's salvation has for years been considered Atlantic City's nightmare.
 To help stave off competition from the tracks, the casino operators recently agreed to give $86 million over the next four years to racing industry to increase purses -- the money at stake in each race -- at Monmouth, the Meadowlands and Freehold Raceway, in an effort to attract more and better horses. In return, the state said it would not pursue racetrack slot machines for the time being.
 But the future may not be put off so easily. Pressure from New York, Pennsylvania and Delaware, where video slots are up and running or on the way, has made it all the more likely that the machines will find a place in New Jersey. So even as the state celebrated a weekend of well-attended championship events, from harness-racing's Hambletonian at the Meadowlands on Aug. 7 to the running of the Haskell Invitational Handicap at Monmouth Park the following afternoon, drastic change was the odds-on favorite among the sport's enthusiasts. 
 ''We're at a critical juncture,'' said Mr. Harrison as he looked out on the 45,000 fans -- far larger than the usual crowd -- gathered to watch the Haskell. ''We have to find a way to compete.''
 But bringing slot machines to the track may require more than just a marriage between two formerly hostile and suspicious industries. State Senator Paul A. Sarlo, a Bergen County Democrat and supporter of video slot machines at the tracks, said he and other lawmakers believed such a move would require a voter-approved constitutional amendment because casino gambling outside of Atlantic City is currently illegal. 
 It seems like one of those rarities in the gambling world: a win-win situation. The state's horse owners and breeders would get the slots they say they need to compete with the neighboring states, and the casinos would have a chance to get in on the action instead of spending time, money and energy fighting a defensive battle. 
 If the casinos, either individually or collectively, do make an aggressive bid to run the two tracks, it will mark a drastic turn of events for both industries in New Jersey. After all, those who long for the return of what the governor called the ''golden age'' of racing -- when the Meadowlands routinely drew crowds of more than 20,000 in the late 1970's -- blame casinos for today's meager crowds of 6,000 or 7,000.
 For their part, however, casino operators have trouble hiding their disinterest in racing's troubles, viewing the sport as a dying enterprise dependent on subsidies from competitors. And in New Jersey, the rivalry between the two industries has neatly coincided with the state's traditional north-south hostilities, with each side quick to take offense over some real or imagined slight. Simply put, some see it as a rivalry between the Meadowlands in Bergen County and the casinos in Atlantic City.
 Yet these days, all is moonlight and magnolias for these once-hardy antagonists.
 ''There's a lot of interaction between the casino and racing industry,'' said State Senator William L. Gormley, an Atlantic County Republican with close ties to the casinos. ''There's a lot of good will being built up. Everybody's saying that.''
 Explaining the recent embrace, Mr. Zoffinger said it was a relationship born out of necessity. ''People's eyes have been opened because they know they have to compete with New York and Pennsylvania,'' he said.
 This entente cordiale would find its ultimate expression in an outright partnership between the racing industry and the casinos. In this courtship, the racing industry is very much the pursuer, and the casinos are playing the role of the not-particularly-distant love interest. Racing organizations like the New Jersey Horsemen's Association have signaled a desire to consummate this once-unlikely pairing. And the casinos have not rejected their advances. 
 ''We're looking at all the possibilities,'' said Lawrence Mullin, executive vice president of Atlantic City's newest casino, the Borgata.
 Noting that the Borgata's parent company, Boyd Gaming, recently took over Delta Downs racetrack in Louisiana, Mr. Mullin said the company ''would be very interested to explore'' a partnership with New Jersey's racing industry. 
 As he put it, these days racetrack casinos are the gambling industry's equivalent of convenience markets. ''They don't put the large retailers out of business,'' he said. ''The successful ones grow their market.''
 Senator Sarlo, believes that privatizing the two tracks and allowing video slots at only the Meadowlands -- but not at Monmouth Park or Freehold, which are closer to Atlantic City -- would bring in nearly a billion dollars a year. 
 ''We're talking about a major-league source of newfound revenue, which could go toward property tax reform and local economic development while also offsetting any losses the casinos might envision,'' said Senator Sarlo, who sponsored the privatization bill that the governor signed at Monmouth Park on Aug. 8.
 The leases, if approved, are expected to bring in at least $250 million to the state, Mr. Zoffinger said, while the Meadowlands and Monmouth Park bring in only about $23 million a year right now. ''We'll be getting a good feel for the price these two assets can garner in the open market pretty soon,'' Mr. Zoffinger said, adding that the 17 potential operators received information from the authority in the last three weeks. 
 ''The question will be: Is anybody offering an adequate enough price for us to get out of the business and hand it over to the private sector?'' he said.
 That may be Mr. Zoffinger's question. But Michael Pollock, publisher of the Gaming Industry Observer, a trade journal, has one of his own. Mr. Pollock wonders if the state has thought out all the implications of creating what he called ''in-state competition'' for Atlantic City. 
 ''You have billions of dollars invested in Atlantic City under the state constitutional premise that gaming would be limited to Atlantic City,'' he said. ''This creates a very difficult situation if you bring in VLT's. Now you're undercutting the long-standing view that New Jersey offers a favorable regulatory and investment climate. It adds a level of risk, and that by definition would add to the cost of capital for any New Jersey casino operator.''
 Which is why Senator Gormley, while waxing eloquent on the subject of newfound harmony between the tracks and the casinos, is not quite ready for what such a pairing would inevitably produce. ''We are on the verge of a building boom in Atlantic City that will create 10,000 new jobs,'' he said, ''so VLT's can be looked at down the road, but not right now.''
 But even that counts as something of a concession. For years, the casino industry tried to make sure that if video slots were down the road, they would never make it past cleverly placed legislative and regulatory obstacles. As recently as several months ago, the casino industry asserted that the slots would lead to the loss of 12,000 jobs in Atlantic City and nearly $500 million in revenue. But those obstacles are being worn down by relentless inevitability. With the passage of legislation last year allowing video slots in New York and this year in Pennsylvania, explained Mr. Harrison, the horse owner and president of the breeder's organization, New Jersey has to respond.
 ''When there are slot machines in Pennsylvania and New York, people will go where it is more convenient,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''I think the casino industry may be starting to understand that.''
 The racing industry, by contrast, has been ready to embrace the new world of multiple gambling options for some time. While horse racing can be as reverent about its past as baseball and golf, many of its enthusiasts, from bettors to owners, see no reason to bemoan the creeping conversion of tracks into multi-purpose gambling halls. 
 Standing on the rail at the Meadowlands last Saturday as a crowd of about 30,000 -- more than triple a typical night's attendance -- awaited the Hambletonian, Roland Carey of New Brunswick said he would welcome slot machines at the track. A self-described regular who was even more regular 20 years ago, when he went to the track every day, Mr. Carey said he believed slots at the track would benefit ''the whole state'' and wouldn't ''take away from Atlantic City.''
 ''The people who come here don't want to go down there,'' he said.
 If the 46-year-old Mr. Carey seemed sanguine, it was understandable. He had just hit an exacta by playing his age -- he picked the four horse to win, and the six horse to come in second. ''That's how you do it,'' he said. ''Pick one number and stick with it.''
 Sitting on a grassy knoll near the finish line, Elysia Pawlowicz of Harrison and Felicia Kulig of Union City were entertaining Ms. Kulig's 24-year-old brother Chris, who was visiting from Massachusetts. ''We just wanted to do something different,'' Ms. Kulig said.
 They and the thousands of young people who trooped to Monmouth the next day for the Haskell offered a glimpse of what Dr. Furst said might have been. ''We lost a generation by not properly promoting the sport,'' said Dr. Furst, who recently opened a practice in Denville. Mr. Harrison, sitting behind Dr. Furst and his wife, Amy, agreed. 
 ''Look at the way people followed Smarty Jones,'' he said, referring to the winner of this year's Kentucky Derby and Preakness. ''I was at a basketball game and people in the stands stopped watching their daughters and went to find a television so they could watch Smarty Jones.'' 
 But even without a superstar attraction like Smarty Jones, a weekend of high-profile racing at the Meadowlands and at Monmouth Park offered a glimpse of Governor McGreevey's lost golden age of racing. When Rainbow Blue, the overwhelming favorite in Saturday's sixth race at the Meadowlands, broke stride at the quarter-mile pole, the collective groan might have been heard in the casinos of Atlantic City. And the cooler-wielding, burger-grilling, midriff-showing crowd at Monmouth on Sunday resembled nothing if not the state's largest beach party. 
 Yet that was only one day, and track veterans like Mr. Harrison and Dr. Furst know that last weekend was an illusion. The state racing calendar is much shorter than it used to be -- 120 dates for thoroughbreds, compared with more than 300 two decades ago. Garden State Race Track is gone and forgotten. Atlantic City Race Course runs about 10 live cards a year, and exists mainly to provide betting on out-of-town races. Freehold struggles to hang on. And even though the Meadowlands and Monmouth draw well, it is not like the days when 20,000 regularly showed up. The horse racing industry, from the tracks to the state's shrinking number of horse farms, is at a turning point, Mr. Harrison said. 
 ''This year, for example, we have only 300 thoroughbred foals in New Jersey,'' he said. ''We had about 1,400 a dozen years ago.''
 The fact is, breeders have gone elsewhere in search of more lucrative purses.
 For now, racing fans hope that slot machines will bring back breeders and fans, and perhaps even a long-gone golden age.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with an article about a move to put video lottery terminals at racetracks in New Jersey misidentified the driver of Windsong's Legacy, winner of the Hambletonian. He was Trond Smedshammer, not Mike LaChance, who drove Cantab Hall and finished in second place. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Even as Windsong's Legacy, driven by Mike La Chance, ran away with the Hambletonian before a larger-than-usual crowd at the Meadowlands last Saturday, drastic change at the tracks was the odds-on favorite among the sport's enthusiasts. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
''We're at a critical juncture,'' says Michael Harrison, who was among the 45,000 fans -- far more than usual -- at the Haskell Invitational Handicap at Monmouth Park last Sunday, above. (Photo by Mark Wyville/Equi-Photo via Associated Press)
 For the 79th running of the $1 million Hambletonian at the Meadowlands last Saturday, cameras were dusted off, far left, while a position near the rail, above, was claimed -- regardless of age -- and bets were put down, left. But horse racing has greatly fallen off in recent years, and racetracks in the states surrounding New Jersey are eagerly converting their poorly attended facilities to mini-casinos, known popularly as racinos, by offering slot machines as well as pari-mutuel wagering. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); GAMING (90%); HORSES (90%); CASINOS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (62%); LOTTERIES (50%) Horse Racing; Industry Profiles; Gambling; Slot Machines; Monmouth Park (NJ Racetrack)

COMPANY: MAGNA ENTERTAINMENT CORP (83%); CHURCHILL DOWNS INC (80%); GARDEN STATE RACE TRACK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (94%) Sports and Exposition Authority (NJ)

TICKER: CHDN (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (83%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (83%)

PERSON: Terry Golway; George R Zoffinger

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



352 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Extremists and Taxes

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDBERG. 
Richard Goldberg is president of the Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey.

 BODY:
AS the father of an 11-month-old, I have the usual parental concerns about his future: that he has clean water to drink, clean air to breathe and a good job that gives him the ability to pay the bills and still enjoy a quality lifestyle. 
 In the last couple of years, environmental activists have had a windfall of victories, mainly as a result of aggressive targeting of businesses by the state Department of Environmental Protection. Prime examples were unjustified raids on hundreds of law-abiding companies in our cities and the hiring of an out-of-state bounty-hunting law firm to go after New Jersey companies for natural resource damages.
 Most recently, the governor signed the Highlands preservation legislation last week, restricting development in much of northwestern New Jersey. This takes decision-making abilities away from local municipalities and places it in the hands of a politically appointed commission. Many companies in fields like construction, engineering, plumbing, electrical, roofing and paving put up a valiant fight as they watched their ability to earn a living restricted to only some areas of the state 
 Many of these policies will also contribute to housing shortages, driving up the prices of existing homes and putting home ownership out of reach for more middle- and lower-middle-class New Jerseyans. 
 These antigrowth policies, advocated by environmentalists, also have a direct impact on your property taxes. While overall state spending continues to increase year after year, state aid to municipalities fails to keep pace with rising costs. As a result, inadequate state financing triggers record property-tax increases at the local level, causing many people to struggle to simply keep their homes.
 One of the few ways municipalities can relieve the burden on the homeowner is to attract companies and businesses that pay taxes and fees and infuse money into local economies by employing local residents.
 After all the restrictions on development, Governor McGreevey, with the support of many employers, unions and average taxpayers, put forth a ''smart growth'' bill that would ease the burdensome development restrictions and expedite permits and approvals in the urban and suburban areas targeted for growth. We are not talking about building in the Pinelands or in other environmentally sensitive areas; we are talking about revitalizing cities like Paterson, Hackensack, Newark and Camden and surrounding areas that would benefit from the economic stimulus redevelopment brings. Nobody would be against revitalizing our cities, right? Wrong!
 Environmental activists-turned-extremists labeled the governor a traitor for signing that bill. They were not satisfied with reducing development in most of the state. Nor were they satisfied with increased enforcement and penalties or with the sweeping protections to the water supply of the Highlands. They want all development in New Jersey stopped. They were even angered by the appointment of the state community affairs commissioner, Susan Bass Levin, as the state's ''smart growth'' ombudsman. As a former mayor, Ms. Levin knows that there has to be a balance to give municipalities the ability to develop and attract ratables, while protecting open space. She will cut bureaucratic red tape when it benefits all involved. This is good for New Jersey. 
 Unfortunately, the environmental extremists have made this an all-or-nothing fight. It is time we expose them for what they are and oppose their positions that have a negative impact on the people of New Jersey. 
 We elect representatives to make decisions on our behalf. We need to ensure that they have the ability to work with business for responsible development that will have a positive impact on our property taxes. Our taxes are too high. If we continue to rely only on suburban homeowners to pay property taxes, while leaving our cities to fend for themselves, New Jerseyans will not be able to afford the limited housing that is left. If the developers and builders find their work diminished, thousands will be off the payroll, with many going on public assistance or being forced to abandon the state. 
 There may be a bit of light at the end of the tunnel. As a result of a lawsuit initiated by the building community, the state Supreme Court recently overturned state regulations that had halted residential construction near freshwater wetlands. In its unanimous ruling, the court referred to the Department of Environmental Protection as ''overzealous'' and said it had ''overstepped its bounds.'' It is now time for the Legislature to provide true oversight of that department and to ensure that a balance can be found. Legislators have to stop pacifying extremists or the voters might start branding them ''extreme'' when they come up for re-election.
 As a voice for the business community, as well as a father looking out for his son's future, I will continue to support smart growth, economic expansion and the cutting of unnecessary regulatory red tape. I can do this while supporting smart policies that ensure clean air and water. This kind of balance will create jobs, and that is what most mainstream taxpayers want and need. It is the only way to keep New Jersey an affordable place to live, work and raise a family and, at the same time, give families an ever increasing quality of life.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); PROPERTY TAX (87%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); TRENDS (72%); SUBURBS (68%); HOME PRICES (66%); EXISTING HOME SALES (51%) Environment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Commerce and Industry Assn of New Jersey

PERSON: Richard Goldberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



353 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Near Outlets and Marshes: New Condos

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: SECAUCUS 

 BODY:
IT may seem like stale news: another riverfront condominium project going up in New Jersey directly west of Manhattan. But here's the kicker: it's not the Gold Coast, and it's not the Hudson. It's Secaucus, the city of outlets, and it's the Hackensack, a river best known for its marshes and wetlands.
 Riverside Court, a 212-unit development under construction now by Baker Residential, will be the first large-scale condo complex to open in almost 20 years in Secaucus, which has a population of only 15,000. 
 In the mid to late 1980's, four condo communities -- all part of the huge Harbor Cove development -- transformed this sleepy burg in the New Jersey Meadowlands, spurred expansion in the retail outlet district and the downtown area, and began to attract corporate offices.
 In the last decade, Secaucus became something of a media hub. Both MSNBC and Channel 9 have studios here, and a number of other networks maintain news bureaus in town.
 A crucial part of the town's appeal to both businesses and residents, certainly, is its location -- a mere five miles from Times Square. Midtown is a quick commute by car or express bus on Route 3 to the Lincoln Tunnel. The New Jersey Turnpike also cuts through town, and both it and Route 3 connect to the Garden State Parkway, providing easy commutes to Newark and other employment centers west of the Hudson.
 The 15.2-acre Riverside Court site is just north of Route 3, immediately off the Meadowlands Parkway exit, and within view of the turnpike overpass.
 The site, sandwiched between the Hackensack River and a neighborhood of single-family homes with a few apartment buildings on its fringes, will be gated, said Clark Atwood, a vice president of Baker Residential.
 The complex will feature a riverside pool and cabana, Mr. Atwood said. ''We're also building a river walk along the Hackensack,'' he added. ''There is a public boat ramp nearby, and you can take canoe and kayak tours of the river and the Meadowlands marshes.''
 He described the Secaucus site as presenting ''an unusual opportunity to buy a home in an urban area that also offers the amenities of nature.'' Secaucus does possess some yin and yang qualities in that regard. For example, the local Stop & Shop supermarket is just down the road from the Riverside site, and next door to it is the entrance to the Mill Creek Marsh Trail -- a prime vista for bird watchers.
 The Meadowlands sports complex, with Giants Stadium and Continental Airlines Arena, is just across the Hackensack River. Site preparation work has begun on open acres around the arena to build Xanadu, a major entertainment-retail-office complex that could enliven the entire Meadowlands area economically. 
 Meanwhile, Secaucus retains distinctly suburban features. There is an ice rink, a roller hockey rink, a soccer field, a volunteer fire department, a Shade Tree Commission and a local theater troupe. There are eight churches and a Hindu temple.
 PRICES for the two-bedroom town-house-style condominiums at the Riverside Court development will start in the mid-$400,000's and go up to $600,000. Mr. Atwood said that Baker was positioning the community as a convenient alternative to New Jersey's ''Gold Coast'' towns that front on the Hudson across from Manhattan.
 While Hoboken is in the midst of major redevelopment, he observed, many other riverfront towns do not have enough open land left to support construction of hundreds of new units as Baker is doing in Secaucus.
 Riverside Court is designed to reflect ''the values and traditions of an era gone by,'' Mr. Atwood said.
 The exterior of the attached three-story town house buildings is modeled after classic 19th-century brownstones, with bay windows, arched entryways, Juliet balconies and French doors.
 Buyers have a choice of four layouts, offering 1,800 to 2,400 square feet of space. A third of the units were sold during the design and site preparation phases, according to the developer.
 The company opened two model homes at the beginning of the month for tours by prospective buyers.
 The condos at the complex will each have one- or two-car garages, fireplaces, hardwood floors in the foyers, formal dining rooms, eat-in kitchens with granite countertops, and master bedroom suites with cathedral ceilings, sitting rooms and baths with soaking tubs.
 ''There is just a dearth of product like this out there,'' Mr. Atwood said.
 The state's new Highlands Preservation Act, prohibiting construction on a wide swath of suburban acreage deemed critical to open space and fresh water initiatives, and the McGreevey administration's strict focus on urban redevelopment, have put several large residential projects ''on hold forever,'' the developer observed.
 ''Developers have been forced to go closer in to the cities,'' he said. ''Here that has worked out great for us and great for buyers. We took a piece of property that wasn't doing anything and turned it into a place where people can work and live.''
 Mr. Atwood said the first closings on homes at Riverside Court would take place next month. Construction will continue at the complex, however, through mid-2006. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: URBAN, WITH NATURE -- Shopping and offices are nearby, and kayaking is available on Hackensack River. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (93%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (77%); BOATING & RAFTING (76%); WETLANDS (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); BIRDING (71%); BIRDS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); AIRLINES (65%) Housing; Condominiums

COMPANY: STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET CO (51%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Baker Residential

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Secaucus (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



354 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; FOR RENT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: An Escape Clause on Preferential Rents

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
STURGIS WARNER'S rent is tripling.
 Not that Mr. Warner hasn't had, in his own estimation, ''a sweetheart deal'' for years -- $530 a month for a one-bedroom apartment in a Greek-columned building on Lafayette Street in NoHo.
 ''But still, it's tripling!'' Mr. Warner, 54, said of the jump to $1,549 called for in the new lease for his rent-stabilized apartment. And, based on the on-off income of an Off Broadway theater director, Mr. Warner doesn't know whether he will have to move. ''Frankly, it's not easy being a theater artist with the real estate situation in Manhattan,'' he said. 
 Mr. Warner and thousands of other tenants are being jolted by a change in the rent-stabilization law regarding what are called preferential rents -- rents lower than what the landlord could have legally charged.
 Before June 15, 2003, if a landlord signed a lease granting a preferential rent, all subsequent increases were based on that preferential rent, not on the higher legal rent the owner could have originally charged. Upon vacancy, a new tenant could be charged the legal rent, including any increases based on the legal rent that could have been added during the preferred tenant's occupancy.
 Last year, however, the Legislature amended Section 26-511 of the New York City Rent Stabilization Law, providing that when the lease for an apartment with a preferential rent is renewed, the owner can jump to the legal rent even if the preferred tenant is staying in place.
 Precisely how many people are facing such big jumps could not be determined. Owners of regulated apartments must annually record their rents with the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal. According to housing division statistics, 11 percent of the approximately 860,000 apartments registered last year had preferential rents. But because of the nature of many preferential rents -- often the landlord wants to keep a friend, a relative or simply an obliging tenant in place -- not all preferred tenants face increases.
 Market conditions, of course, are the primary impetus for increases. ''With the reduction in crime, city investments in housing rehabilitation and the population increase, there's now rent pressure in virtually every neighborhood,'' said Michael H. Schill, director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law. ''Many neighborhoods now attract renters who 5, 10 years ago wouldn't have considered them, places like East New York, Red Hook.''
 Frank Ricci, a spokesman for the Rent Stabilization Association, a major landlord group, thinks the new law ''is good for owners and tenants.''
 ''Under the old rules,'' Mr. Ricci said, ''many owners didn't grant preferential rents because they would be locked in. Now, if they know they can do a preferential rent and adjust at the end of the lease, they're going to be more flexible.''
 But Andrew Scherer, author of ''Residential Landlord-Tenant Law in New York'' (West Group, 2001), said: ''The difference between legal and preferential rent can be hundreds of dollars. The jump can be too high and the tenant could be displaced.''
 Mr. Ricci countered: ''Look, they got a benefit for however long. I don't think there's anything wrong with going to the legal rent.''
 The new law has become ''fodder for litigation,'' Mr. Scherer said.
 Geoffrey Doig-Marx has lived in a Hell's Kitchen walk-up for 12 years. He received a preferential rent of $635 ''because it was so bad around here back then.''
 ''Now it's Upper Chelsea; that's my definition,'' he said.
 By last October, Mr. Doig-Marx's preferred rent had climbed to $946. Then he received a notice, from a new landlord, that his rent would rise to $1,385, because of the new law. When he refused to pay, pointing to a specific clause in his original lease granting him a preferential rent for the duration of his tenancy, Mr. Doig-Marx received an eviction notice.
 His lawyer, Lynn Armentrout, argued, ''The state doesn't have the power to undo or substantially impair a private contract.'' Two months ago, the Housing Court judge, Anthony J. Fiorella Jr., ruled in Mr. Doig-Marx's favor. 
 By far, however, most preferred tenants don't have such specific stipulations in their leases. And in Mr. Scherer's opinion, the new law needs clarification. ''It clearly applies to preferential rent in leases signed since its passage,'' he said, ''but it is not clear about its application to preferential rents agreed to prior to its enactment.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stephen Schildbach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); THEATER (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Rent Control and Stabilization

PERSON: Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



355 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES/Philip Gengembre Hubert; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: The 19th-Century Innovator Who Invented the Co-op

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
TODAY'S co-op prices seem to have no end -- so where, exactly was the beginning? One woman, Cornelia Frohman Santomenna, has been developing a trove of information on the work of her great-grandfather, Philip Gengembre Hubert, who invented the co-op apartment. Although he never saw riches, Hubert's revolution in housing has become a highly profitable mainstay in the New York housing market. 
 Born in France in 1830 with the unwieldy surname of Gengembre, Mrs. Santomenna's great-grandfather took his mother's simpler family name, Hubert, when he arrived in the United States in 1849. Family stories and some printed sources say that during the Civil War Hubert sold the United States government the rights to his invention of a ''self-fastening button'' for $120,000. He also worked as a French teacher and, when he came to New York in 1865, as an architect. 
 He linked up with the architect James Pirsson, and Hubert & Pirsson had a respectable business designing smaller buildings, including what is now the picturesque little Church of St. Thomas More, built in 1870 at 65 East 89th Street, in the neo-Gothic style. 
 The field of apartment-house design was in ferment in post-Civil War New York, and soon buildings like the Dakota, at 72nd and Central Park West, evidenced a new vision of the upper-class multiple dwelling. But Hubert added something different to the mix -- co-op ownership. 
 In 1880, with his help, a syndicate of artists began putting up the Rembrandt, a building of studios and apartments at 152 West 57th Street -- demolished around 1970 and now the site of Carnegie Hall Tower. Hubert and Pirsson were its architects, and the building application rendered the name of the owner as ''Hubert Home Club.'' 
 The six-story Rembrandt was completed in 1881, with 11-room apartments for each of the eight shareholders, and extra rental units. An article in The New York Tribune in 1881 said that the yearly cost per shareholder was $1,250 (half for maintenance and taxes, half for the $100,000 mortgage to buy the land and erect the building), less $800 per member for the rental income from the other units, leaving the total yearly cost at $450 per shareholder. There was no reference to an initial fee.
 Since comparable apartments rented for $1,000 and up yearly, this calculation caught people's attention -- especially after shares in the Rembrandt sold for a substantial increase over their original cost before construction was over. 
 What started as a one-time solution for agreeable artists' housing quickly evolved into a professional undertaking, as Hubert began organizing other Home Clubs. 
 A brochure of 1881 noted that shareholders could protect themselves against ''uncongenial neighbors'' and also remarked that the startling economies of the Home Clubs were based on the shareholders' willingness to avoid showy decorations, large common areas, large rooms and pretentious addresses. 
 Hubert's brochure also disavowed any ''socialistic'' overtones, but the early co-op movement clearly resonated with wider discussions of how Marxist theory might be applied to urban life in the industrial era, discussions that were then in the air. 
 But when Hubert became a developer, instead of just an architect-adviser, the game changed. A developer's logic is always ''more,'' whereas a tenant-builder's goal is simply ''enough.'' Hubert promoted half a dozen more Home Clubs within two years -- of which only the Chelsea Hotel at 222 West 23rd Street and the apartment building at 121 Madison Avenue, at 30th Street, survive -- and other developers also jumped on board the co-op locomotive.
 One of these was Jose de Navarro, a Spanish-born financier who bought a gigantic plot, 200 by 425 feet, facing Central Park South east of Seventh Avenue and reaching back to West 58th Street. On these he began erecting, in 1882, the eight buildings known as the Madrid, the Cordova, the Granada, the Valencia, the Lisbon, the Barcelona, the Saragossa and the Tolosa -- collectively, the Navarro Flats, for which Hubert was the architect. 
 The 10-story buildings had expansive apartments, typically with six bedrooms, and a parlor, living room, dining room and library. These sold for $15,000 to $20,000, with annual maintenance charges of $1,000 to $2,000. 
 But even before the 128-unit Navarro Flats was finished, red flags were going up: in 1883, The New York Tribune advised buyers to routinely ''double the estimates given'' for construction and operation. Such downbeat talk continued as the co-op bubble began to deflate, especially after the Navarro Flats sank into foreclosure, the victim of legal problems and poor cost control.
 The Real Estate Record and Guide took a swipe at Hubert in a discussion of co-ops by noting that ''there are some architects all of whose buildings have cost more than the estimates.'' More restrictive construction laws and the spectacular failure of the Navarro Flats -- where some of the original shareholders lost all their equity, and the complex was completed as rentals -- was the frost that killed off New York's early co-op bloom, a flower that did not blossom again until after 1900. 
 Hubert continued with his architectural practice -- he and Pirsson did the charming little group of row houses at 146-56 East 89th Street in 1886 -- but his prescient co-op idea seemed to be a pipe dream. It appears Hubert lived in the Chelsea for a year or two, and in 1890 he designed, built and lived in the Sevillia apartment building at 117 West 58th Street, which he kept as an investment. It is a handsome, vigorous structure, elegant Renaissance rather than the picturesque Queen Anne of almost all the early co-ops -- but the Sevillia was a rental. 
 Of Hubert's personal life we know little that would give us a clue to his unusual housing invention. His father was also an architect, and Philip Hubert spoke English with a French accent. He avoided alcohol, preferred vegetarian cooking and never used tobacco. He was a painter, writer and literary and drama critic.
 His great-granddaughter, Mrs. Santomenna, says she has manuscripts for several plays he wrote, including ''False Charms'' of 1882. She also has detailed construction cost schedules for the Sevillia, correspondence to and from Hubert, drawings and sketches she thinks are Hubert's of the French countryside, and numerous patent documents in his name, covering plastering techniques, fireproofing and plumbing. 
 Hubert left New York in the 1890's for California and built a house for himself there, with a room called Little Egypt, with a false window looking out onto an electrically illuminated desert landscape. He died there in 1911; Mrs. Santomenna says he was financially comfortable, but not rich. 
 But of what model he used, what inspiration he saw, in developing the co-op idea in New York, he left no record, only the institution of the ''Home Club,'' one that is now so prevalent in the landscape of New York housing.

Look For
The robust seventh-floor balcony ironwork on the Sevillia (building below). The building was designed and lived in by the architect Philip Gengembre Hubert (inset, with grandson).

BUILT: 1890
ADDRESS: 117 West 58th Street
HOW TO GET THERE: No. 1 and 9 trains, or A, B, C and D trains, to Columbus Circle.


GRAPHIC: Photo: PLANNED AS CO-OPS, OPENED AS RENTALS -- The Navarro Flats, at Seventh Avenue and Central Park South, in 1895. (Photos by Above, Office for Metropolitan History
inset below, Cornelia Frohman Santomenna
 bottom photo, Frances Roberts for The New York Times)Graph tracks mortgage rates since 2001. (Source by HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%) Housing; Cooperatives

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Christopher Gray; Philip Gengembre (1830-1911) Hubert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (72%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



356 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; OLYMPICS: KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Athletes Slow Down More Slowly

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
They are old enough to remember the United States' boycott of the 1980 Moscow Olympics. Their careers started before Courtney McCool, a gymnast whose name you will soon know, was born. And they do not need to hear that they are an inspiration simply by making this year's Olympics, thank you. 
 They are all serious medal contenders, and there are now enough of them to talk about as if they were their own unofficial Olympic team. They make up the great nation of 30-something. 
 Gail Devers, 37, will try to add to the gold medals she won in 1992 and 1996 when she runs the 100 meters this week and the 100 hurdles next week. Akakios Kakiasvili, 35, will try to thrill his fellow Greeks by winning a fourth consecutive gold in weight lifting. Aleksandr Popov, a 32-year-old Russian, will again vie for the title of the world's fastest swimmer. Jeannie Longo-Ciprelli of France -- who at 45 is an honorary member of team 30-something -- will climb onto her bike for a sixth consecutive Summer Games. 
 The aging of the Olympic athlete has gone largely unnoticed by most fans, shrouded by the influx of fresh faces at each Games. Teenagers are again likely to dominate much of the discussion, with the 16-year-old McCool, the swimmer Michael Phelps, 19, and the sprinter Allyson Felix, 18, all candidates for stardom.
 On the medal stand, though, teenagers are increasingly the exception. The winners in almost every major sport -- cycling, rowing, swimming, track and field, volleyball -- and many minors ones -- archery, kayaking, handball, table tennis -- have become older during the last three decades. Gymnasts, seemingly the ultimate symbol of Olympic youth, became younger in the 1970's and 80's, but have aged somewhat in the last decade.
 At the 1976 Olympics in Montreal, teenagers and the 30-and-older crowd earned 10 medals each in track and field. Four years ago, in Sydney, Australia, the oldsters beat the teenagers in a rout in the track and field events, 46 medals to 4.
 The shift has helped to alter athletes' and scientists' understanding of when the human body peaks. For years, people assumed that the early- and mid-20's marked the last time athletes could run their fastest or jump their highest. It was a sensible assumption, because that was the age of the world's champions.
 But it now looks as if the reason was more economic than biological. Before the Olympics allowed professionals to compete, athletes had to retire, or curtail their training, and find jobs before they turned 30. They were quickly replaced in the winner's circle by younger athletes practicing full time. 
 ''What we thought was aging,'' said Joel M. Stager, a professor of kinesiology at Indiana University, ''was really just inactivity.''
 Today, endorsement contracts with clothing and equipment companies like Speedo allow athletes to continue competing long after college. The deals often pay $25,000 a year or less, but it can be enough. For athletes from poor countries, like the runners from Kenya, saving even a small amount of the pay can make them wealthy when they do eventually retire and return home. 
 ''It's a completely different ballgame when you can make a living,'' said Rowdy Gaines, a former world-record holder and winner of three gold medals at the 1984 Los Angeles Games in swimming. He is now a commentator for NBC Sports. ''It keeps you in the sport much longer.''
 A virtuous cycle is then formed: athletes keep competing because they can and because they have new hope of winning as they age. Advances in training, reducing injury risks and teaching athletes how to eliminate tiny inefficiencies in their technique allow some to continue even as they reach beyond 30-something.
 Merlene Ottey, 44, not only remembers the Moscow Games, but also competed in them for Jamaica, winning bronze in the 200 meters; it was her first of eight Olympic medals. She may no longer be a threat to win, but she will be sprinting again this year, as a naturalized citizen of Slovenia. Martina Navratilova, a tennis star for almost 30 years, has a chance to win a medal for the United States in doubles at age 47.
 On reflection, perhaps this all should have become obvious much earlier than it did. In 1940, a 22-year-old American named Barney Ewell was probably the world's fastest man, but World War II canceled the Games that year and again in 1944. After serving in the United States Army, Ewell shocked fans by qualifying for the 1948 London Games and, at age 30, winning two silvers and a gold as a sprinter. This newspaper called him Ol' Barney.
 All these years later, noted Dave Johnson, director of the Penn Relays, Ewell looks less like an exception and more like a once-rare example of an athlete allowed to keep running into the twilight of his prime.
 The lesson for all of us who will be spending much of the next two weeks in front of the television seems clear enough. Grab a ball or throw on some sneakers sometime soon, and stop moaning about being too old. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (95%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); RUNNING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (89%); TRACK & FIELD (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ADOLESCENTS (88%); CYCLING (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ARCHERY (73%); KINESIOLOGY (71%); WEIGHTLIFTING (68%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%) Olympic Games; Age, Chronological; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Track and Field

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (58%) David Leonhardt; Gail Devers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (68%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (52%) UNITED STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); FRANCE (70%); AUSTRALIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



357 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Fans Converge to Send Off Smarty Jones

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

DATELINE: BENSALEM, Pa., Aug. 14 

 BODY:
A loss in the Belmont Stakes and the announcement that he had been retired have done little to diminish the enthusiasm of Smarty Jones's legion of fans. About 10,000 of them turned out Saturday at Philadelphia Park to say farewell to the winner of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes.
 Smarty Jones will be taken by van Sunday evening to Three Chimneys Farm in Midway, Ky., where he will stand at stud. It was announced Aug. 2 that Smarty Jones, who has sustained bone bruises in the area of all four cannon bones, would not race again. 
 Although Smarty Jones raced just twice at Philadelphia Park and had not started there since Nov. 22, the track in suburban Philadelphia was very much his home. He was stabled there throughout much of his nine-race career, and many Philadelphia fans regarded him a local hero.
 ''It's been a wonderful experience,'' said Lynne Koach, who was wearing a Smarty Jones T-shirt and button. ''He's been good for this state, this city, even this country. I feel really sad today, because I'll miss him so much. Besides, he's cute.''
 After the third race, Smarty Jones, led by the exercise rider Pete Van Trump and the groom Mario Arriaga, walked the length of the stretch, took a few turns in the paddock and entered the winner's circle for the conclusion of the brief ceremony. Smarty Jones was accompanied by an entourage that included the trainer John Servis. Roy and Pat Chapman, the horse's co-owners, did not attend.
 ''I want to thank the Chapmans for giving me an opportunity to train the greatest horse to come from Pennsylvania and maybe the greatest horse of all time,'' Servis said, his words greeted by a loud cheer. ''He gave us a great ride. We're doing what's in the best interests of him. That's the way we have to look at it. I know you guys had a lot of fun, but nobody had more fun with this than myself and my family. We had to look out for the horse. I can tell you we're going to miss him.''
 After losing in the Belmont Stakes, his only career defeat, Smarty Jones was expected to run at Philadelphia Park in the Pennsylvania Derby, at either the Meadowlands or Monmouth in the Pegasus, then in the Breeders' Cup Classic at Lone Star Park. The Chapmans had also maintained that they were interested in bring the horse back as a 4-year-old.
 The injury would not have prevented Smarty Jones from running as a 4-year-old. Economic factors may have played the most significant role in his retirement. When an agreement was reached with Three Chimneys that placed Smarty Jones's value as a stallion at $39 million, he became worth far more as a sire than as a racehorse. 
 But most fans attending the retirement party seemed to be in a forgiving mood.
 ''My feeling is that if he ever got hurt or had to be put down, I'd be devastated,'' Harry Beccari said. ''I'd rather have him ride off into the sunset like this and lead a great life for a long time to come.''

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Speightstown Impresses
 (By The New York Times), SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y., Aug. 14 -- Better Talk Now, at odds of better than 7 to 1, was the upset winner of the Grade I Sword Dancer Invitational on Saturday at Saratoga Race Course.
 But it was Speightstown's victory in the Grade II Alfred G. Vanderbilt Handicap that was the most impressive performance of the day.
 Ridden by John Velazquez and trained by Todd Pletcher, Speightstown covered six furlongs in 1 minute 8.04 seconds to equal a track record, set by Spanish Riddle in 1972. Speightstown carried 120 pounds in winning his fourth consecutive race and solidified his credentials as one of the top sprinters in training, alongside Pico Central, who is slated to run at Del Mar on Sunday.
 ''He's just so good right now, it's scary,'' Pletcher said after Speightstown blazed an opening quarter mile in 22.05 seconds and a half in 44.40, all while dueling with Mike's Classic. After pulling away by the top of the stretch, Speightstown finished a length and a half in front of Clock Stopper. 
 In the Sword Dancer, Better Talk Now, who is trained by Graham Motion, overtook Request for Parole and the pace-setting Balto Star in the stretch to win for the first time since last fall. Better Talk Now paid $17.80 on a $2 bet to win.
 Earlier on the card, a 2-year-old colt named Scipion out of A.P. Indy and the Strawberry Road mare, Strawberry Reason, displayed some of the promise that led him to be purchased for $1.9 million at last year's Fasig Tipton sales here. After trailing the eight-horse field by 12 lengths after a half-mile in his career debut, Scipion, who is trained by Patrick Biancone and was ridden by Javier Castellano, roared from last to first in the final furlong to win the second race, which was run at seven furlongs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); CONTUSIONS (70%) Horse Racing; Philadelphia Park Race Track

PERSON: Bill Finley

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



358 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Putting Out the Welcome Mat for Big Estate Homes

BYLINE: By DEBRA WEST

 BODY:
THESE days, towns are not chasing after businesses and begging them to settle in their borders. They are lusting after the buyers of extremely large houses who pay property taxes to match.
 When a 12-acre hilltop area on the border between the Pocantico Hills and Tarrytown school districts in Westchester County was nothing but brush, for instance, no one much cared who collected the property taxes on it. But when a developer began building $2 million houses on the land and marketing them as the Legends at Pocantico Hills, Tarrytown school officials took notice. 
 That land was once in the Tarrytown school district, and the educators wanted it back. The 11-house Legends development is expected to generate $400,000 a year in property taxes, or about 1 percent of the Tarrytown schools' annual budget. 
 Back when developers were building tracts of ranch homes and cookie-cutter colonials, fighting to include a development within a school district's boundaries would have been unthinkable. Suburban homes, crammed with school-age children and taxed at less than the cost of educating them, were widely considered by planners to be financial losers. 
 But that was before ''estate'' homes, as big as hotels and as opulent as museums, turned the planning equation upside down. Their property taxes can rival or exceed those of small businesses.
 ''This is elementary arithmetic,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''On average it costs a municipality about $10,000 a pupil for education. If you have two schoolchildren per house, you would need $20,000 just for the schools. Now, the average property tax is about 3 percent of the sales price, give or take. So the normal $300,000 to $500,000 house doesn't cover it. Houses that are $700,000 are right on the edge, on a fiscal impact basis.''
 In the second quarter of this year in Westchester alone, 593 houses were moneymakers from a tax point of view, all selling for more than $750,000 and the majority for more than $1 million. This fact was not lost on town decision makers.
 In Armonk, 27 ultraluxury homes are being built on six acres in a $50 million gated community. The property, the former Schultz's Cider Mill, was a farm stand with a cider shop that sold homemade doughnuts. It was commercially zoned and when it was first sold in 2000, an A. & P. supermarket was proposed to take its place. When neighbors complained that they didn't want the traffic or the smells that a supermarket would generate, the town agreed to change the zoning to residential use. The homes will sell for $1.5 million to $2.5 million. 
 ''I would venture to say that the taxes from that project would generate more than the A. & P. would have,'' said John A. Lombardi, town supervisor of North Castle, which includes the village of Armonk. ''But that is not why we changed the zoning. We changed the zoning because a lot of people were opposed to it.''
 The development, known appropriately as CiderMill, is not expected to add many children to the school district. A neighboring development of 55 homes, known as Whippoorwill Ridge, sends about a dozen children to the public schools, Mr. Lombardi said. 
 The Food Emporium in Armonk generates about $66,000 in property taxes, said Patricia Colombo, North Castle's receiver of taxes. The 27 homes at the CiderMill have not been assessed yet, but based on their expected sales price of $1.5 million to $2.5 million, their estimated taxes could be $21,000 to $35,000, according to Anna Maria Marrone, the North Castle assessor. The properties are expected to provide far more in taxes to the town than the proposed A. & P. would have. 
 There are negative aspects to these big tax producers, of course. Neighborhoods of expensive, gated houses bring little diversity, job opportunities and things to do, said Gerald Benjamin, a political scientist who serves on the Real Property Tax Administration System Alliance, a state-sponsored research group. 
 ''If you have exclusionary zoning with very large lots, the social consequences of that are problematic,'' said Dr. Benjamin, who is a dean at the State University of New York at New Paltz. 
 In seasonal communities the economic benefit of encouraging residential development can be even stronger. 
 In Long Beach Township, a summer community on the New Jersey shore, some commercial property this year has been redeveloped as luxury houses, causing an outcry among residents who fear that the character of their town is changing. The Colony movie theater and Mr. T's Amusements, both longtime landmarks, were torn down to make way for million-dollar homes.
 ''In a way this is enhancing the neighborhood,'' said DiAnne C. Gove, the mayor of Long Beach. ''It wasn't the only movie theater on the Island. The parking lot was dirty. It was unsightly. During the day, people parked there and used the beach. And the homes that are going up are beautiful.'' 
 The developer was able to build houses in each case because the property was zoned residential and commercial, Ms. Gove said. 
 ''Obviously, if you push it to the extreme and every commercial establishment is knocked down, it's not a good thing for the town,'' said Paul Gow, an agent with Long Beach Island Real Estate. ''What I see more of is knocking down older homes and building new palatial homes.''
 Since the dawn of Levittown, the holy grail of suburban planning has been a ''clean ratable,'' and in the 50's and 60's that was the office building, said Dr. Hughes of Rutgers. 
 ''It had no smokestack and no schoolchildren,'' he said. ''But in the 1970's and 80's, the traffic impact became a key concern. The hot item now is the ''active adult'' community, which is marketed to people 55 and older. It has no smokestack, no schoolchildren and no rush-hour traffic.''
 Not only are town officials eager to approve plans for active adult communities, but the largest bubble of baby boomers are just entering their downsizing years, so the potential market is huge, Dr. Hughes said.
 In Garden City, on Long Island, 25 acres of commercial property were rezoned into residential property this year to allow a developer to build an adult community.
 ''The reason was not taxes or the school district,'' said Frank S. Fish, a planning consultant for Buckhurst, Fish & Jacquemart, which has designed master plans for many New York suburbs, including Garden City. ''It was more of an environmental impact, quality of life decision,'' he said. 
 In Franklin Township, N.J., there are currently five active adult communities on the books, according to Brian D. Levine, the mayor. Two have been completed and three are in the planning stage.
 Franklin Township, which lies between urban New Brunswick and bucolic Princeton, is one of the fastest-growing communities in New Jersey, Mr. Levine said. Four years ago, voters approved a referendum to spend $20 million to preserve open space. The town bought some property outright and the development rights to many farms. Town officials also created a new zoning category, changing some land from a residential zone to an age-restricted active adult zone. 
 ''Senior villages are very attractive,'' Mr. Levine said. ''They mean lower maintenance costs for the town. They don't generate rush-hour traffic. They don't use the schools. If they are gated, they maintain their own roads. Maybe they use more police, more emergency services, but they pay for themselves.'' 
 The property owners in the Legends at Pocantico Hills are also likely to pay for themselves tax-wise, regardless of whether the court decides that the houses are in the Tarrytown school district or in Pocantico Hills. WCI Spectrum Communities, the developer, filed a lawsuit in New York State Supreme Court after a regional education official sided with the Tarrytown schools in the dispute. Spectrum had told its buyers that the development was in the small and exclusive Pocantico Hills district, not the larger and more diverse Tarrytown schools. A trial will be held later this month. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Mary Ann Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); ZONING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SUBURBS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%) Housing; Taxation; Property Taxes

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: Debra West

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



359 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: A Big Block Party

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
THERE is a little bit of everything on Main Street in Willimantic on the third Thursday of the month. 
 The Connecticut National Guard and toe rings, face painting and live music are typical of the eclectic offerings at the celebration, which as its name suggests is on the third Thursday of the month from May to October and stretches the four blocks from High Street at the upper end of Main to Jackson Street at the lower. 
 The festival seems a combination family barbecue, church bazaar and fall carnival, with musical performances and food booths. Jugglers, stilt-walkers and magicians roam the streets and poets stage original works. Babies ride in strollers, young couples walk arm-in-arm and senior citizens dance in the middle of the street. 
 ''I'm already thinking about people I can bring back with me next month,'' said Cindy P. Hubler of Stafford, who made her first trip to Willimantic in July, and found herself getting custom-made foot jewelry at Stepping Out Toe Rings. ''It's like an old-fashioned block party, with merchants.''
 Joan M. Bouchard of Lebanon was greeting people at the Northeast Coalition for Justice and Peace booth, handing out copies of a C.I.A. warfare manual and stickers that proclaimed, ''Regime Change Begins at Home.'' 
 ''This is a great venue for peace and justice activists,'' Ms. Bouchard said. ''You'd be surprised how many stickers end up on the cars here.''
 One block down, at Main and Church streets, Edy A. Torres, a staff sergeant with the Connecticut National Guard in Rockville, was running a makeshift recruiting station. He said he had about five serious prospects come through during a three-hour stretch, which he hoped would translate into two new enlistments.
 ''We're not looking for a grand slam here,'' Sergeant Torres said. 
 ''You can see 5,000 people here on a Thursday night,'' said Johnny Prytko, whose Good Times Band was one of the performers at July's event. ''This is the talk of a lot of towns in Connecticut. People love a street festival.'' So why don't more towns do it? ''It takes a group of really hard-working people, and that's difficult to find,'' Mr. Prytko said.
 ''It's a beautiful thing, to see so many different people come together,'' said Jean M. deSmet, one of the organizers, who came up with the idea during a failed campaign for Windham first selectman (Willimantic, with a population of about 16,000, is a borough of Windham). She decided to follow up on her campaign promise, and with her supporters set up Willimantic Renaissance, a nonprofit organization that funds the fairs through donations and revenues from a beer booth.
 ''The street fest is an economic development initiative, in our minds,'' Ms. deSmet said. ''We're trying to change people's perceptions of downtown, and I think it's working.''
 ''At first a lot of people thought we were going to be closing Main Street for three hours for 50 people. But we probably attracted about 2,000 to the first one, which I think surprised everyone,'' said Ms. deSmet. ''The second one we might have had 4,000. We probably had 6,000 in July, and if the weather is good this month we could have 8,000 people. August is usually our best turnout.''
 She said there is a core of about 15 people who are involved with the planning and organizing, and 30 more who show up to work on Third Thursday, which is why it works.
 ''The only problem we have is each time we get a new volunteer, he or she brings in a good idea, so it keeps getting bigger, but no easier,'' Ms. deSmet said laughing. ''But because of the volunteers, it costs us about $2,500 to $3,000 per month to put it on. It would probably take $70,000 if it was produced professionally.''
 The festival starts at 6 p.m., but a lot of people arrive an hour early or more to find parking. It officially ends at 9, but on a warm summer night people hang around for an hour or more to catch up.
 ''There have been amazingly few problems considering how many people come in here each month,'' said Police Chief Lisa Maruzo-Bolduc. ''It's a very well-behaved crowd, generally. The biggest problem is usually kids trying to ride bikes or skateboards through the crowd and running over people's toes.''
 Phil Smith, manager of Nasiff's for Sports at 745 Main Street, said he sees a huge increase in foot traffic on Third Thursday nights, but that doesn't translate into additional sales.
 ''People are here for the food booths and the bands,'' Mr. Smith said. ''In fact, some of our regulars avoid Third Thursday because they know it's going to be tough finding a parking space. But our hope is that people will see what Main Street has to offer and come back.''
 Some of the merchants realize a windfall. Keith D. Niziankiewicz, who owns Fanny McHenry's Hot Dogs at Main and Jackson, sets up a temporary grill in the middle of Main Street.
 ''If you're at a street festival you've got to have a hot dog,'' he said with a grin as he dropped two dozen foot-longs on the grill. On Third Thursdays he sells about eight bags of hot dogs, 42 to a bag, or 336. ''On a normal Thursday night, I might sell a couple of dozen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: One evening a month, from May to October, a four-block stretch of Main Street in Willimantic is closed to accommodate a street festival -- a combination bazaar, barbecue and carnival -- that draws up to 5,000 people. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POETRY (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



360 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Thinking About Living in the Valley? Better Hurry

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE DIGRAZIA

 BODY:
CRAIG AND JAMIE DREZEK made unofficial housing history in Derby earlier this year when they bought a year-old Colonial-style house for $450,000, what area real estate experts said was the most expensive single-family house ever sold at the time in the city and, for that matter, some of the other communities in the Lower Naugatuck Valley. 
 While $450,000 won't buy a lot in Fairfield County, a price that high for a house in the Valley is a bit of an eye-opener. Long economically depressed as its factories closed, most of the area's municipalities had modest homes at reasonable prices. The six Valley communities, Ansonia, Derby, Shelton, Seymour, Oxford and Beacon Falls, were often where young couples went to buy their first homes.
 But as prices for houses have skyrocketed in surrounding areas, people are buying homes in the Valley, pushing the median single-family house in 2003 to $230,000, up 50 percent since 1997. In 2000, the U.S. Census recorded population of nearly 100,000, growth of about 7 percent from 1990. 
 While a housing report released this year found that the average commuting time of Valley residents is about 20 minutes, about 5 percent commute 60 minutes or more, almost double the number in 1990. It is no coincidence that the morning backups on the Merritt Parkway and Interstate 95 often begin where they connect with Route 8, the highway that cuts through the heart of the Valley, as residents head for their jobs in Southern Connecticut and New York. 
 So many new houses and condominiums are being built that citizen's groups have been forming to scrutinize proposals that come before planning and zoning commissions. In Seymour, which has already issued more building permits in 2004 than it did for all of last year, some residents unsuccessfully demanded that the town impose a moratorium on new subdivisions and impose stricter housing development regulations. 
 ''In many cases, the Valley is subsidizing the work force of Fairfield County,'' said Richard Knoll, president of TEAM Inc., a coalition of representatives from organizations that offer services to Valley residents. ''Thirty years ago, the majority of people who lived in the Valley worked in the Valley. The brass and rubber industries have left. Today, there's a significant shift in that many work outside the Valley because they can afford the housing here.''
 This shift is also creating a concern that young people who already live in the Valley will be priced out of the market. The report on the region's housing market released this year, ''Housing the Workforce: An Assessment of Housing in the All-America Valley,'' sponsored by the Lower Naugatuck Valley Regional Housing Coalition, found that the three leading indicators of what it calls ''housing-cost stress,'' -- house prices, rent payments, and the earnings needed to afford either -- are pricing Valley middle- or upper-middle-class households out of the market. 
 ''Being able to afford housing in the Lower Naugatuck Valley region is quickly becoming a major issue for households with surprisingly high levels of household income,'' the report states, highlighting workers such as police officers, firefighters, teachers and nurses. ''Further, the data show that housing-cost stress in 2003 in the Lower Naugatuck Valley region is occurring at household-income levels,'' about $40,000 to $50,000, that are higher than in the past.
 The report found that housing prices have grown three times faster than the average household income, making housing virtually unaffordable for some Valley residents. For instance, teachers in the Valley would have to spend about 74 percent of their incomes to buy the average-priced house in Ansonia, which is $153,000, and a police officer would have to spend 83 percent, the report said.
 ''The housing market has just exploded in the Valley,'' said Barbara DeGennaro, a Derby lawyer who does real-estate closings. ''I just had a client who bought a house in Shelton six years ago for $300,000 who just sold it for $500,000. On the other hand, some of my client base, which is made up of Valley people, say they can't afford to buy what they want here anymore. Houses in the Valley are way out of their price range.''
 Jaws are dropping at property transactions like the Drezek's nearly half-million-dollar home, said William C. Nimons of Ansonia, senior vice president of Naugatuck Valley Savings and Loan in Naugatuck. Mr. Nimons said he recently was involved in the sale of an Oxford lot on which a new house will be built for about $600,000.
 If somebody thought they were going to buy a house in the Valley for $200,000, they are going to find out that they are few and far between,'' he said. ''And, at this point, that type of house is probably going to need a lot of upgrades or improvements.''
 Mr. Drezek said that part of the reason he and his wife were able to afford their 4,300-square-foot house is that their previous house, a Colonial they bought for $190,000 in 1996 in Seymour, sold for $357,000 in 2003.
 ''At that time, I knew, based on what we had sold our house in Seymour for, that things were changing drastically in the Valley,'' said Mr. Drezek, who will begin his first year as principal of Derby High School later this month.
 The 2000 census found that the Valley's population increased 6,700, or about 7 percent, to 99,567 from the 1990 census. The 2000 census also shows that almost 40 percent of the Valley's population is in Shelton, the only Valley town in Fairfield County. The rest are in New Haven County. The Valley housing report said Shelton and Oxford contain the most undeveloped land in the region.
 Building permits have also jumped. Just through June, the six Valley communities had issued 52 percent more permits, 224, than for all of last year, when they issued 147. Oxford alone had issued 102 permits through June, up from 64 last year.
 James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Jersey and an author of the 2004 study, ''The Beginning of the End of Suburbia?'', said development was slowing in the areas closer to New York, such as Fairfield County, and people are now buying homes in outlying areas, willing to withstand longer commutes.
 ''One result is that development is being channeled back into older development areas, old urban places,'' he said. ''The secondary effect of that is the resulting spillover into the rural areas farther outside of the metropolitan region. The economic glory of these areas is long since passed. These cities will offer developments and housing that is more affordable.''
 The rate of new housing development is of such concern in the Valley that citizen groups are putting pressure on planning and zoning commissions.
 Nancy Steiner of Shelton is one of the founders of WE R-1, a group of Shelton residents fighting what they call the overdevelopment of housing. Ms. Steiner said the group was trying to change zoning laws to prevent the Planning and Zoning Commission ''from gobbling up our one-house-per-one-acre regulations'' to allow high-density, cluster housing in residential sections.
 ''When I moved here, Shelton was bucolic and the land was gorgeous and precious,'' she said. ''Now developers stand to make much larger profits on less land.''
 Mr. Nimons of the Naugatuck Valley Savings and Loan said he was seeing builders, developers, and real-estate companies buying older houses, rehabilitating them and putting them back on the market at prices 30 to 40 percent higher.
 ''They are pushing the first-time homeowner out of the market,'' he said. ''If only one of a couple is working, they are not going to be able to buy a house unless they have a substantial down payment.''
 Some solutions to the housing problem include renovating empty factory, school and historic buildings, updating older houses, improving public transportation, planning subdivisions better and offering incentives for developers, Mr. Knoll of TEAM said.
 The housing report suggests developing zoning policies that encourage the construction of affordable housing, such as exemptions for the number of units built on a parcel if 10 percent or more are deemed affordable. Another option is creating homebuyer programs intended to create incentives for people to buy houses either in or near the communities in which they work. Such a program would provide mortgages at below-market rates, down-payment assistance, closing-cost subsidies and mortgage insurance to qualified buyers.
 ''Each community is unique and has its own thoughts about smart growth,'' Mr. Knoll said. ''I'm particularly interested in an ordinance in Stamford that requires a developer to build one unit of affordable housing for every 10 units built.''
 Mr. Nimons said solutions would be difficult.
 ''I've been in the Valley all of my life and I've seen it all,'' Mr. Nimons said. ''I've never seen an environment where prices ratcheted up and didn't come back down. But even if the prices do come down 10 percent in our area, it's still not going to bring back affordable housing to the first-time homeowner.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jamie and Craig Drezek and their children in front of the family's new home in Derby. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 William C. Nimons, of the Naugatuck Valley Savings and Loan, near new homes in Oxford. At left, Nancy Steiner with her husband, Irving, at their Shelton home. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 4)Map of Connecticut shows the location of Lower Naugatuck Valley: The Lower Naugatuck Valley runs south of Waterbury to Bridgeport. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LABOR FORCE (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); RUBBER & SILICONE (60%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: TEAM INC (63%)

TICKER: TISI (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (63%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (63%)

PERSON: Christine Digrazia

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Naugatuck River (Conn); Connecticut; Ansonia (Conn); Derby (Conn); Oxford (Conn); Shelton (Conn); Seymour (Conn); Beacon Falls (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



361 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Making Over New London's Rough Port

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

DATELINE: NEW LONDON 

 BODY:
ONE year ago, Patricia McKenna was a miserable Connecticut car commuter. Heavy highway traffic or severe New England snowfalls could stretch the time of her drive from her home in Cranston, R.I., to her office in Norwich, Conn. -- a distance of 54 miles -- to a mind-numbing three hours.
 Fed up, Ms. McKenna, an insurance adjuster, decided to move to New London, a city that for years had merely served as a useful milepost. After moving into the 28-rental-unit, 32,000-square-foot red-brick Depression-era renovated former office of Southern New England Telephone at 73 Washington Street, however, she discovered a New London that has exceeded her expectations. 
 A burgeoning art scene and bustling ferry-and-train hub are driving a restoration of the downtown neighborhood of this historic, ethnically diverse waterside city, whose ornate Greek Revival-style 19th- and 20th-century buildings now house art galleries, coffee shops, antique stores and ethnic restaurants. 
 In addition, Ms. McKenna felt safe walking alone at night, even by the docks, which as recently as five years ago were plagued by rowdy sailors and criminals. 
 Like its namesake in England, New London, a city of 25,653, is tucked on the banks of a Thames River, though the chief cargo in its port these days tends more toward people than textiles. The commercial occupancy rate downtown is 70 percent, up from 50 percent a decade ago, according to local brokers, but still low compared with Norwalk, a rehabiliated port town in Fairfield County, about 90 percent occupied.
 Space in New London is still relatively affordable for businesses. The developer Michael Joplin, president of the quasi-public New London Development Corporation, estimates that the cheapest commercial space rents for $11 a square foot annually, though high-end office space can command $17 a square foot.
 Construction projects are popping up on State Street in the heart of the downtown district.
 One example is a former hotel called the Crocker House, a onetime haunt of Eugene O'Neill that was bought at auction in 2001 and is still undergoing renovation. Of the 85 residential units on the upper floors of the five-story building -- mostly one-bedrooms and studios -- 55 have already been rented, mostly to a mix of college administrators, casino workers, artists and teachers, the owners say. Meanwhile, when finished by October, the ground floor will have four retail spaces and one office space. A lease has already been signed for the office. 
 A nearby three-story building built in 1920 at Bank and Howard Streets is for sale for $650,000. The site, more typical of downtown properties on the market, has a restaurant on the ground floor, four apartments on the second floor and a vacant ballroom on the third.
 Other older buildings, ravaged by time and neglect, like the imposing former Capitol Theater on Bank Street, have had a tough time attracting buyers. The city, which condemned the property in the 1960's, has said it would get rid of it for $1, yet buyers are daunted by the building's internal structural problems.
 Meanwhile, storefronts in the downtown National Register historic district are steadily attracting small businesses, from florists to cheese shops. Next June, the city will welcome an outdoor performance area with seating for up to 120 people, next to the gallery and studio spaces of Hygienic Art, a nonprofit association that is developing the park.
 Some say ferry riders are driving the city's rehab, not necessarily because there are more of them but because they are spending extra time in town before jumping on their boats. For merchants, they are a large market to tap. Ferries depart for Block Island, R.I., and for Orient Point, Montauk and Fisher's Island on Long Island. There is also a Greyhound station and an Amtrak stop, housed in a soaring H. H. Richardson-designed railroad station just steps away from the boats.
 In 2003, 1.5 million people boarded or departed downtown, and this summer, with the addition of a high-speed catamaran to Block Island (and the potential return of a similar service to Martha's Vineyard), those numbers could increase. ''The potential for growth is great,'' said Stanley Mickus, director of marketing for Cross Sound Ferry, which runs the Long Island boats and would like to expand its terminal in 2006.
 Others, however, think the key to sustained revitalization lies with residents who want to shun local malls. ''My customers are local people who want something new and exciting downtown,'' said Jim Morrison, the wine consultant for Thames River Wine and Spirits, which opened in May in an 18th-century building on Bank Street. 
 He believes that a major factor shaping the revitalization is the fact that State Street is no longer Captain's Walk, a pedestrian mall erected in the mid-1970's as part of a sweeping urban-renewal project.
 While car-free thoroughfares are credited with enhancing the downtowns of some cities, notably Burlington, Vt., New London's pedestrian mall actually attracted fewer people downtown, which led many shops to go out of business. The city finally allowed cars back in 1992.
 Alva Greenberg, who moved to the area in 1974 and now owns the five-year-old Alva Gallery on State Street, thinks the city is better off promoting its arts attractions like the Garde Arts Center, which offers Broadway plays, operas and symphonies, than promoting the transportation connections. ''This city had great bones,'' said Ms. Greenberg, who owns six properties in town.
 The demand for housing is also being driven by the success of two casinos within 12 miles and the presence of the pharmaceutical company Pfizer, which has a longtime location in Groton and a two-year-old New London office. A decline in crime rates has also been heartening.
 Whatever the reason, people seem to be savoring the city's makeover. 
 On a recent weekday night at Bulkeley House, a New London restaurant set in a well-preserved building that was first the home of a sea captain and rebuilt in 1790 after a fire, four dozen people sat at tables on the lawn, enjoying live jazz while sipping cocktails. ''I think at this point,'' said Ms. Greenberg, the gallery owner, ''the revitalization will be very hard to stop.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A MORE VIBRANT WATERFRONT -- Looking down busy State Street to the Thames River, where a ferry is passing. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); ART DEALERS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (69%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (64%); CASINOS (64%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (63%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Restoration and Rehabilitation

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) New London (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



362 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: A Year Later, Lessons From the Blackout

BYLINE: By PETER FOX-PENNER. 
Peter Fox-Penner, a senior official at the Department of Energy from 1993 to 1996, is chairman of the Brattle Group, a consulting firm that advises utilities.

 BODY:
On Aug. 14, 2003, North America experienced the largest electrical blackout ever. An estimated 50 million Americans lost power for some period, with economic losses estimated to have reached $12 billion. Occurring less than two years after the Sept. 11 attacks, the event again pointed out our vulnerability to large, unseen forces. 
 In the wake of the blackout, New Yorkers and the rest of America learned -- to their amazement -- that the rules for maintaining electric reliability are voluntary, with no penalties for violations. This system worked well when the utility industry was heavily regulated, but now it is badly outdated. Last year, 444 violations of these reliability rules were reported, but not one of the violators could be punished or sanctioned. 
 The federal government and industry investigated the causes of the blackout and recommended preventive measures. The report's top recommendation was to make reliability rules mandatory and enforceable -- a change requiring federal legislation.
 One would have thought that all this would galvanize federal action to enact mandatory rules. One would have thought wrong. Instead, the Bush administration insisted on bundling reliability rules into its omnibus energy bill, reasoning that the importance of reliability rules would get the package passed more easily. But the package -- famously derided by Senator John McCain as a bill of ''Hooters and looters'' has languished, and with it, progress on reliability rules.
 As much as it needs new rules, the power industry also needs clear regulatory policies and an end to the discord that has plagued the power investment climate for a decade. Grid owners and operators need fair and effective rules that promote or even require transmission investment. In this area the administration's energy bill not only falls short, it may actually make matters worse. The bill prevents the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission from ''standardizing'' its policies, creates federal authority to force the siting of transmission lines, and provides permanent transmission entitlements to existing transmission holders that are guaranteed to be deeply contentious. It also calls for making several major policy rules in an absurdly compressed period of time. In short, the bill sends uncertain and perhaps even contradictory signals about the climate for grid investment. Wall Street is distinctly unimpressed, and that should worry us.
 While federal legislation is stalled, the industry has taken some initiative. The industry's reliability association has pushed to improve the clarity and enforcement of standards and is increasing its audits of member utilities. In its most recent audit from last year's blackout, it took FirstEnergy Corporation to task for a series of operational failures that allowed the blackout to spread across the Northeast and Midwest. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which has no formal jurisdiction, and state regulatory commissions, which do, have both increased their oversight about as much as they can. In New York, the industry has strongly focused on reliability for decades, but it, too, is limited by federal inaction and the difficulties of supplying power to the metropolitan region, the energy-hungry corner of the state. A recent audit of the New York Independent System Operator, which manages the state's power grid, found that its preparedness for reliability emergencies was well above average. At the same time, however, the operator's own chief executive reported that progress on building new grid capacity for the region was too slow, and that federal reliability rules were his highest priority. 
 The rest of the nation is, if anything, less vigilant than New York. Many utilities have increased their transmission budgets, but the projects are most small or local. After a nationwide review, one energy consultant, Eric Hirst, recently found that the amount of transmission capacity per unit of power generated was expected to decline 11 percent in the coming decade. And this follows a decade in which power demand has grown 2.7 percent a year while transmission grew only about 0.7 percent annually, leaving an estimated $50 billion investment shortfall. Increasing grid capacity is the top concern of utilities worldwide. 
 The issue is not simply building more, it is building smarter. Our electric grid needs a comprehensive redesign led at the federal level. The North American power network -- the world's single largest machine -- was designed and built in bits and pieces to serve a system of local regulated utilities. It is not designed or controlled to facilitate the tenfold growth in power trading that has occurred in the United States in the past decade. Important new grid technologies are being tested and sometimes used, but redesigning and rebuilding the grid will require a coordinated effort with associated financing.
 We can keep the lights on in America and improve the utility sector, but it will take much more than mandatory reliability rules. We need leadership at the federal level, and lots of it, and we need a stable regulatory and investment framework. Legislation will start the marathon, but only a new design and new investment will finish it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ENERGY SITING (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%) Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Law and Legislation; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (84%)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (51%) Peter Fox-Penner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



363 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Indian Point Power

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 There are some important facts that public officials in seven villages are apparently ignoring while also acknowledging that they are using taxpayers' money to buy more expensive wind power than Indian Point's lower cost nuclear power (''A Strike Against Indian Point,'' Aug. 1). 
 Nuclear power is more environmentally friendly. The Manhattan Institute has found that it would take 300,000 acres of Statue of Liberty-size windmills to equal the power output that comes from Indian Point, located on a mere 240 acres. There would have to be a development bonanza, on land that is simply not available, if Indian Point were to be replaced by wind power.
 New York City and the downstate region desperately need Indian Point's power. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's Energy Policy Task Force has estimated that the city will need an increase of 2,600 megawatts of electricity by 2008. Indian Point provides 2,000 megawatts, which meets 20 to 30 percent of the city's needs. Using wind power instead of Indian Point is a strike against the environment, the economy and taxpayers.

John Basile
Putnam Valley

The writer is a former plant manager, Indian Point Unit 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%) Electric Light and Power; Wind; Windmills

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) John Basile

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



364 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Tenements' Spirit Endures

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your Habitats piece on the Jewish settlement revitalized into Lower East Side co-ops at six-figure prices (July 25) makes us surviving first- and second-generation Lower East Siders smile inwardly and knowingly. We knew what it meant to populate those tenements.
 We sweltered in summer and shivered in winter. The buses and subways were our limousines, Coney Island and the Catskills our playground. We casually strolled uptown and across the George Washington Bridge to Palisades Amusement Park. On the High Holy Days, we strolled across the Williamsburg Bridge into Brooklyn and back, returning just in time to break the fast on Yom Kippur. We weren't as much Orthodox as we were observant traditionalists. We loved our parents and our grandparents. We knew they sacrificed so we could have a little more out of life -- a little better than they did.
 Our Lower East Side was economically poor, but rich in the flavors of a diverse populace who got along with each other, because we were mostly all in the same boat. Yes, the new buildings are up, the tenements are refurbished, and the younger generations have replaced the old, but our spirit is still in the stones, in the sidewalks and gutters of New York.

HARVEY FREILICH
Boca Raton, Fla.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); YOM KIPPUR (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); GRANDPARENTS (68%) Jews; Housing 

PERSON: harvey freilich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Lower East Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



365 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; WORTH NOTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Survey: Average Debt To Gambling Is $17,000

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
A survey by the Connecticut Council on Problem Gambling has found that most of the callers to its 24-hour help line earned less than $35,000 a year. Despite the low salaries, the callers reported that they lost an average of $21,500 a year. 
 The annual survey, taken by the members of Gamblers Anonymous who answer the phones, also shows that one-third of the callers this year made less than $25,000 and 16 percent were unemployed.
 ''There is a tremendous over-representation of poor people,'' Marvin A. Steinberg, the council's executive director, said last week.
 The survey found that callers lost an average of $115,000 over their lifetime. The average current debt due to gambling is $17,000.
 Mr. Steinberg said most cited casino gambling and lottery games as the sources of their losses, with 49 percent saying they had a problem with slot machines. He said most admitted they had a problem with more than one form of gambling.
 Mr. Steinberg said the council had been conducting the survey since 1995. He said the results have not changed much.
 ''From year to year, the similarity of the statistics is incredible,'' he said.
 Mr. Steinberg said the survey does not address what he said is a significant number of problem gamblers with large incomes.
 ''We don't get a lot of high-end calls, probably because those people have greater access to private treatment,'' he said.
 Mr. Steinberg said the help line has received about 900 total calls this year, with 611 coming from within Connecticut and the rest from Massachusetts and Rhode Island. JEFF HOLTZ


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); GAMING (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CASINOS (73%); LOTTERIES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT COUNCIL ON PROBLEM GAMBLING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



366 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Q and A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1056 words

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO

 BODY:

Heathrow to Stansted

Q. We will be making a flight transfer near London. Could you tell us the best way to get from Heathrow Airport to Stansted? Also, we will be arriving in the evening and leaving the next morning, so information on a place to stay at Stansted would be helpful. -- Mike Butler, Tampa, Fla.

A. The best way to go from Heathrow to Stansted is by road, advises Pamela Kent, an assistant in the London bureau of The New York Times. The alternative involves a train into central London, then a trip across London to Liverpool Street Station by underground, followed by a train to Stansted.
 National Express Coaches leave from the central bus station at Heathrow at hourly intervals from 8:10 p.m. The ride to Stansted takes about 90 minutes. The last two buses are at 11:10 and 11:40 p.m. The one-way fare is $37.25 (at $1.86 to the pound); if you will be returning home on this route, the round-trip fare is $46.50.
 National Express has ticket desks in Terminals 1, 3 and 4 that can direct you to the bus stop. Buses stop at Terminal 4, which is 10 minutes from the three other terminals. You can also book at www.nationalexpress.com, a site that also has a link to airport hotels.
 If several people are traveling it is economical to book a car. Capital Move, a car service that uses Chrysler Grand Voyager minivans, charges $93 for up to three people and $18.60 for each extra passenger. If travelers are booking a return trip there is a 15 percent discount. See www.capitalmove.com or call (44-870) 080 1722 between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. in England, which is five hours ahead of Eastern daylight time. 
 There are a number of Web sites for booking hotels at Stansted, where prices average about $186 a night. For example www.expedia.co.uk has a night at the four-star Radisson SAS Hotel London Stansted Airport at $200. At www.fhr-net.co.uk, (44-8707) 456 372, a night at the four-star Stansted Hilton is $223. You may find that www.airport-hotels-guide.co.uk is useful, offering competitive prices for the above two hotels as well as two- and three-star hotels from $120.

Cruising Hawaii

Q. My wife and I would like to take a cruise around the Hawaiian Islands for about a week, visiting the islands during the day and spending nights on the ship. Is there a package deal including air fare from the East Coast and the cruise? -- V.K. Balakrishnan, Veazie, Me.

A. The ships you probably want to look at are two Norwegian Cruise Line vessels: the 1,748-passenger Norwegian Wind and the 2,002-passenger Pride of Aloha.
 Beginning last month, the Pride of Aloha has been departing each Sunday from Honolulu on seven-day interisland Hawaiian cruises. Besides your departure point, the island of Oahu, you will stop at the Big Island of Hawaii (calling at Hilo and Kona), Maui (Kahului) and Kauai (Nawiliwili). 
 The ship has a choice of six restaurants and bistros, although three are specialty restaurants with a cover charge. All staterooms have a TV, safe, refrigerator and a bathroom with shower. Rates for an inside stateroom (with two separate individual beds), the lowest-priced accommodations, start at $879 a person, based on two people in the cabin.
 On each island, there is a choice of shore excursions, and the fact that you are starting and ending the trip in Hawaii allows longer stays in each port (the company says the ship spends a total of 96 hours in port).
 If you want to book your air fare in a package, Norwegian Cruise Lines has its Freestyle AirSavers plan, with round-trip fares from Boston of $659 in low season and $719 in high season. You may be able to get better air fares shopping independently, but among the benefits in using the cruise line's air fares are extras like airport transfers.
 To be precise, this ship is operated by NCL America, a subsidiary of Norwegian Cruise Line; the Pride of Aloha operates under the United States flag, meaning it can sail to American ports only. Since this is a new venture, you may want to read reviews from some former passengers at www.cruisecritic.com.
 The Norwegian Wind leaves from Honolulu on 10- and 11-night trips. Because this ship does not sail under the United States flag, it must stop in a foreign port -- in this case, Fanning Island, in the Republic of Kiribati, which requires two full days at sea in each direction. 
 Information: (888) 625-4292 or www.ncl.com. Travel agents are also a good source for cruises.

Italian Cooking

Q. I will be in Rome for a week in December and would like to attend cooking classes for two days only. Any suggestions? -- K.L., San Diego

A. Following are some suggestions from Paola Nuvola in the Rome bureau of The Times and from Maureen B. Fant, who often writes about food in Italy. Most classes are conducted in Italian, although some schools do instruction in English for a group.
 Diane Seed, (39-06) 679 7103, www.dianeseed.com, operates an English-language cooking school on the Piazza Venezia in Rome, a city that she has lived in for over 30 years. Ms. Seed, author of nine cookbooks, usually conducts five-day courses (with about five hours a day in class), costing $1,200, but will have a three-day class (same class length) Dec. 1 to 3 and again Dec. 14 to 16, at a price of $480 if you attend for two days. Classes are limited to 12 students, and are a mix of watching and hands-on experience. The emphasis is on dishes from many different regions, prepared with fresh ingredients. In Ms. Seed's own words: ''A balance is kept between food for dinner parties, and interesting quick dishes to prepare for more informal meals. It is authentic Italian food, based on good ingredients, not fussy designer food. Four dishes are prepared each day and we sit down to eat them with an appropriate wine.''
 Other schools are typically Italian-language only, but you should ask about classes in English. 
 Cuochepercaso, via Germanico 197, (39-06) 321 6620 or see www.cuochepercaso.it.
 Gambero Rosso Cooking School, Citta del Gusto, via Enrico Fermi, 161, (39-06) 5511 2211, or see www.gamberorosso.it.
 A Tavola Con lo Chef, via dei Gracchi 60, (39-06) 322 2096, or at www.atavolaconlochef.it.
 And if you want to learn about which Italian wines to serve with your meal, try the International Wine Academy of Roma, vicolo del Bottino, 8, (39-06) 699 0878 or www.wineacademyroma.com, with English courses. JOSEPH SIANO





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TRAINS (75%); CRUISES (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); MINIVANS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (64%); AIR FARES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RADISSON SAS HOTEL AMMAN (52%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (50%)

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



367 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Airlines Like New Deal With China

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
THE nation's airlines are hailing an agreement signed last month that could lead to a five-fold increase in the number of flights between the United States and China.
 The news couldn't come at a better time for the airline industry, which has seen competition skyrocket and profits plummet everywhere except the Asian market. Airlines report a strong increase in demand this year, with about 800,000 people traveling between the United States and China. Though airlines say it is difficult to estimate the percentage of business versus vacation travelers, much of the traffic is believed due to the rush of American companies to start or expand ventures in China. 
 This year through April, travel between the United States and Asia in general rose 24 percent versus the same four months last year, when passenger levels fell sharply with the outbreak of Sudden Acute Respiratory Syndrome and a weaker economy, according to the Commerce Department's Office of Travel and Tourism Industries.
 The agreement, announced July 23, will increase the number of passenger and cargo airlines allowed to fly between China and the United States by the end of the decade to nine from four. And the number of allowable flights a week will jump to 249 from 54 by then.
 Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta, in announcing the agreement, said further expansion is possible. Right now, United and Northwest are the only United States passenger airlines going to China, which also is served by Federal Express and United Parcel Service. But Secretary Mineta said another passenger airline and another cargo carrier might be selected next year. 
 Interested airlines include American, the world's biggest, which said it planned to lobby hard to be allowed to pick up China flights. Continental Airlines also is interested in flying to China. Delta Air Lines, meanwhile, began a code-sharing arrangement with Air China in April, allowing passengers to earn Delta miles on Air China flights.
 The old agreement limited American carriers to five cities in China. (Chinese carriers, which are run by the government, are allowed to fly to 12 American cities.) The new agreement places no limit on the number of cities that the carriers can serve in either country.
 Given China's vast size, however, it's still likely that Americans will head for a major destination, like Beijing, Shanghai or Hong Kong, and then take domestic flights from those cities.
 Of the 195 potential new flights a week, 84 can be passenger flights, while 111 would be cargo flights. The expansion means there will be plenty of flights available in 2008, when Beijing is host to the Olympic Summer Games. But airlines are not waiting until then to expand their service.
 Within hours of the agreement, United and Northwest announced service on two new routes. United, which recently began flights between San Francisco and Shanghai, said it would add seven nonstop flights a week between Chicago and Shanghai. Northwest is adding daily flights between Detroit and Guangzhou, via Tokyo.
 Guangzhou is the third city in China to be served by Northwest, which began flying there in 1947, when it was known as Northwest Orient. The airline serves Beijing and Hong Kong through Tokyo. 
 Whether the new service to China means ticket prices will fall isn't clear. Robert W. Mann Jr., an airline industry consultant in Port Washington, N.Y., said the strong demand by airlines to add flights reflects American companies' expansion in China. General Motors, for instance, is pushing to make China its second-biggest market, behind the United States.
 Given that China is one of the last markets offering airlines the opportunity to charge top dollar for premium service, Mr. Mann said he expected the carriers to focus much of their attention on business travelers.
 The opportunity to attract high-paying customers is a reason American Airlines is pushing hard to start flights to China. The airline estimates that 45 percent of visitors to Asian cities pay full-fare prices.
 ''My only regret is that we don't have a bigger Asian network,'' American's chief executive, Gerard J. Arpey, said in July.
 But in the long term, airlines will have to set fares that can appeal to a wide variety of customers. ''You can bet that travelers in China will not be willing to pay those fares,'' Mr. Mann said.
 Increased service will mean more Americans getting a chance to experience domestic aviation in China, which can be an unpredictable experience. China is in the midst of a restructuring of its airline market. In the 1980's, 10 carriers operated in China, all under government control. Two years ago, the General Administration of Civil Aviation of China, known as C.A.A.C., said it would combine the airlines into three: Air China, China Eastern and China Southern.
 Delays in China are notorious: two of every five flights within the country do not take off on time, the aviation agency says.
 A group of private investors hopes to create China's first privately owned airline this year, and there is talk in aviation circles that the government may create a low-fare carrier. But that is still down the road, giving American carriers a window of opportunity to fly to a part of the world that is still ripe for exploration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); OLYMPICS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); SARS (68%); CITIES (66%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (64%); TOURISM (54%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (54%); AIR CHINA LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (74%); UPS (NYSE) (54%); AIRC (LSE) (53%); 0753 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (54%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



368 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 4; Book Review Desk; BOOKS IN BRIEF: NONFICTION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 315 words

BYLINE: By Diane Cole

 BODY:

BORGES' TRAVEL,
HEMINGWAY'S GARAGE
Secret Histories.
By Mark Axelrod.
Fiction Collective Two/Florida State
University, paper, $13.95.
 ''At one time Hemingway thought of opening a clothing establishment which catered to matadors. . . . But the thought of possibly witnessing some of his best customers being gored to death wearing garments he sold them altered even his steely sensibilities.'' Instead, as Mark Axelrod tells it, Hemingway opened a garage in Santa Ana, Calif., a venture that inspired his short story ''A Clean, Well-Lit Pit Stop.'' Axelrod even supplies an accompanying picture of the California establishment actually called Hemingway's Garage. Axelrod, who teaches English at Chapman University in Orange, Calif., follows a similar formula to trace 45 ''secret histories'' (as he calls them) that lie behind his photographs of stores, cafes and other businesses that happen to share the name of a well-known writer, artist or intellectual. ''Borges' Travel, Hemingway's Garage'' is a whimsical collection focused on the imaginary commercial lives of debt-ridden cultural heroes desperate to stave off bankruptcy. In a humorous, deadpan style, Axelrod reports on the philosophical quarrels between Leibniz and Newton that fueled the competition between dueling cookie franchises Choco Leibniz and Fig Newtons; confides that Balzac helped invent basketball (hence Balzac's Balls of Newport Beach); and confirms that at Ravel Shoes, in Paris, the best-selling item is, not surprisingly, Bolero Boots. Rembrandt invented the toothpaste that bears his name not only to avoid financial crisis, but, according to Axelrod, because he was tired of painting portraits of unsmiling subjects afraid to display their bad teeth. Axelrod's screwball sketches are clever but grow repetitious. Like a box of bonbons, they are best dipped into rather than devoured in one sitting. Diane Cole


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); PAINTING (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (69%); RETAIL BAKERIES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); BASKETBALL (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Diane Cole; Mark Axelrod

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



369 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: MacArthur Expansion: Mixed Reviews

BYLINE: By DAVID WINZELBERG

 BODY:
WHEN Sara Monoson-Berns of Baldwin returned home from Chicago earlier this month, she noticed that the airport she started out from had changed. On Aug. 4, Southwest Airlines and the Town of Islip opened a new $55 million concourse at MacArthur Airport, with new food concessions and a lot more room in the boarding areas.
 ''It's very spacious, very nice,'' said Ms. Monoson-Berns, who uses MacArthur frequently for trips to visit her family. ''The walk is longer than before, but it's vastly superior to the major airports around New York.'' 
 At busier airports like La Guardia and Kennedy, crowds and heightened security measures can create long lines. The ease of getting to the airport, parking there, and relatively short walks to the gates have made MacArthur, in Bohemia, the choice for more air travelers in recent years.
 ''In 1999, we had 12 flights out of here a day -- now we have 24,'' said Denis Carvill, the station manager for Southwest, the major carrier at MacArthur. ''This is our New York base. Our planes leave here pretty full.''
 With the expansion come other improvements. There are now three more lines through the security checkpoint, which has reduced waits to five minutes or less, said Paul Crispi, the director at MacArthur for the federal Transportation Security Administration.
 Mr. Crispi said that the number of passengers at MacArthur had increased by about 30 percent since July 2002, when his agency took over security operations there. ''We screened about 3,000 people a day when we started,'' he said. ''We had 4,800 the first day of the new concourse.''
 Southwest paid for the new concourse. ''They built the entire terminal,'' said Peter J. McGowan, Islip's town supervisor. ''No taxpayer money was used for it. And according to the agreement, it now belongs to the town.'' 
 As part of the construction project, 2,500 more parking spaces are being added. Town of Islip residents who buy a $20 annual permit can park free, even for days at a time.
 MacArthur's fortunes began to improve five years ago, when the town used the money from its $3 surcharge on each ticket sold at MacArthur to pay for a $13 million renovation. That lured Southwest to the airport, which had been losing money.
 Mr. McGowan said that Herbert D. Kelleher, Southwest's chairman, told him at the time: '''You modernize the airport. We'll bring the planes.''' 
 And Southwest has, as some disgruntled homeowners can attest. ''That airport is getting out of control,'' said Jean Hengge, who has lived on Ocean Avenue in Bohemia for the last seven years, a few blocks outside of MacArthur's main landing pattern. ''It's becoming a major hub. It was much quieter before Southwest came in.''
 Ms. Hengge said that while homeowners who live near the airport bear the burden of noise and pollution, they are not compensated with lower taxes or additional aid for their schools.
 She added that she worries that de-icing fluid could contaminate the groundwater or that jet exhaust falling on schools and backyards in area could harm children. ''Nobody's concerned about the kids,'' she said.
 Anthony Persico, the president of the Bohemia Civic Association and a resident of the area for 30 years, has witnessed many changes at MacArthur. ''I've seen it go from small prop planes to major air carriers,'' he said. ''We feel we are being shortchanged. The residents and school districts receive nothing. We should be getting something back from the airport.''
 Mr. Persico said that when the Southwest first came to the airport, it flew two dozen students from the John Pearl Elementary School in Bohemia to Washington for a class trip. But since then, he said, neither the Connetquot nor Sachem school district has received any benefits from the airport's renaissance.
 But Mr. McGowan, the town supervisor, said the that airport directly contributed $3 million to $4 million a year in state and county taxes and indirectly accounted for much more in revenues, from the jobs it created, increased tourism and sales taxes from car rentals and airport restaurants. 
 Just the money spent on construction alone at the airport in the last six years has brought in nearly $70 million, said Mr. McGowan, who added that a Hofstra University study on the local economic impact of the airport was under way.
 As for the noise, Mr. McGowan said that the airport tried to limit takeoffs and landings to the hours between 6 a.m. and midnight but that federal regulations require that it be kept open all night in case of late-arriving flights or emergency landings. ''All flights comply with all of the rules and regulations of the F.A.A.,'' Mr. McGowan said. ''And the planes are quieter today than they were 10 years ago and quieter than they were five years ago. I have a flight that goes right over my house.''
 The airport property covers 1,310 acres, about double the size of La Guardia, which has 680 acres. Mr. McGowan did not rule out further expansion at MacArthur to attract another major carrier in the future. ''We want to keep it a user-friendly regional airport,'' he said.
 So far, that concept seems to be working for Southwest as well. ''We like this airport,'' said Mr. Carvill, the station manager. ''It's been very good to us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The new Southwest Airlines concourse at MacArthur Airport opened Aug. 4. ''They built the entire terminal,'' said Peter J. McGowan, Islip's town supervisor, above. ''No taxpayer money was used for it.'' (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (61%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Macarthur Airport (Long Island, NY) ; Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (54%) Southwest Airlines

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: David Winzelberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Islip (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



370 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-18

Talks in Najaf Break Down
Truce talks between Iraq's interim government and Moktada al-Sadr's rebels collapsed in Najaf, prompting American commanders to prepare new battle plans for breaking Mr. Sadr's grip on the holy city and the Imam Ali mosque, Shi'ite Islam's most sacred shrine. 1

Factional Afghan Fighting
Twenty-one people, including two senior defense ministry commanders, were killed in heavy factional fighting overnight in the western Afghan province of Herat, in another upset as the country prepares for elections. 8

Flocking to Russian Citizenship
Abkhazia, a breakaway Georgian republic, has been swept by a paper revolution. Tens of thousands of Abkhazians have become Russian citizens as civil war looms. 3

U.N. Camp Attacked in Burundi
Dozens of attackers raided a United Nations refugee camp in western Burundi, shooting and hacking to death at least 180 people. A Burundian Hutu rebel faction, the National Liberation Forces, claimed responsibility, saying its fighters were in pursuit of Burundian soldiers who fled to the camp from a nearby position. 10

Bush Backs Moving Troops
President Bush is to announce that he supports a Pentagon plan to redeploy up to 70,000 troops from Europe and Asia in the most significant rearrangement of the American military since the end of the cold war, an administration official said. 6

Fighting Sex Traffic in Europe
Investigators from Turkey and Romania teamed up to interview victims of a sex-trafficking ring, resulting in the arrest of five offenders. 13

Children Suffering in Sudan
Childhoods have come to a halt during the fighting in Sudan, with many children killed and others lost. 18

NATIONAL 20-31

Hurricane Charley Hits Hard
Hurricane Charley raced up the Atlantic seaboard, hitting the Carolinas with gusty winds and rain after leaving Florida grappling with some of the worst storm devastation in its recent history. Emergency officials said that 13 people in Florida died, and that the toll would most likely mount as rescue workers pushed through mountains of debris into ruined trailer parks. 1

Damage inflicted by the hurricane could exceed $20 billion dollars, making it one of the most costly storms in the nation's history, economic analysts said. 24

Thousands of people in Florida surveyed the devastation. Some were heartbroken at the loss of property, many others said they felt grateful to have survived. 1

Homeless, but Vote Counts
Two national groups are trying to register thousands of homeless people to vote in the presidential election. The National Low Income Housing Coalition registered roughly 1,150 homeless people nationwide in a one-day drive in 16 states and the District of Columbia. 27

University Research Reactors
Experts say that weapons-grade fuel stolen from nuclear research reactors at six universities could give terrorists a head start on an atomic bomb. The federal government has promised for more than two decades to reclaim the uranium and substitute a less enriched type. 31

NEW YORK/REGION 33-40

Governor Speaks of Double Life
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, who resigned on Thursday after admitting a homosexual affair, said in a speech that he had lived a kind of double life, building a resume of what he thought was proper, while harboring feelings that he felt were dangerous, maybe destructive. 33

Richard J. Codey, the president of the New Jersey Senate, will serve as acting governor most likely through 2005, the remainder of Governor McGreevey's term. 35

Fresh Air Fund 40

OBITUARIES 41-42

Czeslaw Milosz
The Polish emigre writer who won a Nobel Prize in 1980, he was 93. 41

Chess 40
Weather 43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); HURRICANES (86%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); HOMELESSNESS (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); RELIGION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); REFUGEES (75%); HISTORY (74%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); WEATHER (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); DISASTER RELIEF (69%); SEX TRAFFICKING (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (62%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); TRAILER PARKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) BURUNDI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SUDAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); TURKEY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



371 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4055 words

HEADLINE: A New Legal Chapter for a 90's Flameout

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
SURROUNDED by dozens of wealthy financiers gathered more than 1,000 feet above Wall Street, Gary Winnick held center stage one fall evening in 1998. His new corporation, Global Crossing Ltd., had recently gone public, and the stock was on a meteoric rise that would briefly make him a multibillionaire. Sitting in rapt attention at a celebratory dinner at Windows on the World, the restaurant atop the World Trade Center, the audience listened as Mr. Winnick, a jowly, hard-driving former bond salesman, promoted his company's potential with all the zeal of a televangelist.
 Global's fiber-optic cables, Mr. Winnick promised, would help start a telecommunications revolution, allowing data to zip around the planet in the blink of an eye. ''He kept saying how Global Crossing was going to change the world,'' recalled Richard Klugman, a telecom analyst who witnessed the performance that night and who, along with many others, bought the story.
 In October 2002, almost four years to the day after that dinner, Mr. Winnick sat before a Congressional investigative committee, trying to explain why Global imploded and how he managed to salvage at least $735 million out of the wreckage for himself. 
 ''Yes, I made a lot of money,'' Mr. Winnick told members of Congress. ''But when I went into this venture, building a cable across the Atlantic, I had no contemplation that this thing would turn out to be what it was. I'm both proud and saddened by it.''
 Along with Kenneth L. Lay of Enron, L.Dennis Kozlowski of Tyco International and Bernard J. Ebbers of WorldCom, Mr. Winnick has emerged as a symbol of the financial shenanigans behind the 1990's bull market. Unlike the others, however, Mr. Winnick, Global's founder and chairman, has already been cleared of criminal charges. The Justice Department quietly dropped a criminal fraud investigation of him on Christmas Eve of 2002, relieving him of the prospect of prison time. But he still faces two civil suits -- others have been settled -- and a continuing Securities and Exchange Commission investigation. 
 Of all the lawsuits, one filed against Mr. Winnick last October in federal court in Manhattan holds special significance. J.P. Morgan Chase and other leading banks are seeking $1.7 billion in damages from Mr. Winnick and other Global Crossing executives, contending that the group engaged in a ''massive scam'' to ''artificially inflate'' the company's performance to secure desperately needed loans. Mr. Winnick, whose lawyers dispute the accusations, declined to be interviewed for this article. 
 Among other things, the suit refocuses attention on exactly what Mr. Winnick knew about his company's finances during times when it was borrowing heavily and he was selling hundreds of millions of dollars in stock. It also outlines a troubling series of meetings he held with Mr. Lay and other Enron executives just months before their company crumpled. 
 In late June, the judge in the case, Gerard E. Lynch, ruled that the banks' accusations had enough merit for the case to move forward, meaning that Mr. Winnick might find himself on the witness stand again.
 ''I am prepared to look at this case as, with all respect to the people involved, a bunch of crooks getting sued by a bunch of bankers who are too dumb to stop throwing money down the toilet,'' Judge Lynch said in an earlier court hearing, before adding that there was credibility to the notion that Global may have defrauded the banks. 
 But the full account of Global's rise and fall is more shaded than Judge Lynch's comments suggest, and speaks not only to Mr. Winnick's tenure there but also to the business milieu that shaped him as a financier. 
 His detractors say Global's downfall involved arcane accounting gimmicks that eluded federal prosecutors, allowing Mr. Winnick to avoid punishment. His supporters, who point to his extensive philanthropy as evidence of his generosity, say he is a shrewd deal maker who merely exploited an opportunity. Still others offer an even more trenchant, if unsettling, observation: Gary Winnick is us.
 ''Some people say, 'The guy made a lot of money,''' said Ronald I. Silverman, a Los Angeles lawyer who is a close friend of Mr. Winnick's. ''I say, 'Welcome to America.'''
 FOR most of his 56 years, Gary Winnick's life followed a storybook plot: a kid from humble circumstances vaults, like a Horatio Alger character, into the upper tiers of American business and wealth. He has kept company with presidents, joined Britain's queen mother for her birthday, toured art collections with David Rockefeller and paid $65 million in cash for a sprawling Bel Air estate. He also stood in the epicenter of two seismic financial events -- working first as an apprentice to Michael Milken during the junk-bond revolution of the 1980's and then riding the telecom tsunami of the 1990's.
 Mr. Winnick was born in 1947, the youngest of Blanche and Arnold Winnick's three children. He was raised in Roslyn, one of the working-class suburbs that sprang up on Long Island after World War II, and where his father owned a food supply business. The Winnicks were a boisterous, argumentative, close family, and when Arnold died of a heart attack when Gary was 18, newly enrolled at C.W. Post College, the teenager was devastated, people close to him said.
 After his father's death, Mr. Winnick did what he could to help support his widowed mother and put himself through school. He worked at a ski shop, was a soda jerk at a Howard Johnson's restaurant and helped manage a golf club. While Vietnam War protests spilled across college campuses, Mr. Winnick stuck to his business and economic studies at C.W. Post. After he graduated in 1969, he worked as a furniture salesman and married his wife, Karen. The Winnicks are said to enjoy a solid, loving marriage; their three sons are all in their 20's.
 Mr. Winnick ventured to Wall Street in the early 70's, landing a job at Burnham & Company, then a second-rate brokerage firm populated by in-your-face traders and investment bankers down on their luck, hitting the telephones to stir up deals. It would later be known as Drexel Burnham Lambert. Drexel made Mr. Winnick a salesman on its bond desk. 
 Michael Milken ran an obscure part of Drexel's business, trading high-yield bonds. Such bonds, deemed so risky and rated so poorly by credit agencies that they were called ''junk,'' had once been a financial backwater. In Mr. Milken's hands, junk bonds financed the dreams of cable, cellular and media entrepreneurs shunned by more conservative Wall Street firms and became the currency of choice for corporate raiders.
 Whatever jobs he held before, Mr. Winnick found his metier through Mr. Milken. The pair clashed over compensation, according to people who witnessed their relationship, but both worked long hours and reveled in work that placed a premium on split-second trades and sales. 
 When Mr. Milken moved his growing junk-bond operation to Los Angeles, he invited Mr. Winnick to follow him. From an X-shaped trading desk in Beverly Hills, Mr. Milken emerged as the most powerful, most innovative and most feared American financier since J.P. Morgan. Mr. Winnick shared in the spoils, telling acquaintances he eventually made as much as $2 million a month at Drexel.
 By the time Mr. Winnick left Drexel, in 1985, Mr. Milken was already paying the price of hubris. In 1990, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for securities fraud and forced to pay more than $1 billion in fines. The perception that Mr. Winnick had cooperated with prosecutors made him a pariah to some Milken loyalists. 
 ''Milken and some of his close people felt Gary had taken the side of the government and there was some ill will about it from time to time,'' said Terry Christensen, Mr. Winnick's longtime lawyer.
 After leaving Drexel, Mr. Winnick started his own investment firm, Pacific Capital. He engineered several low-profile deals, investing in furniture, mattress, satellite television and health care enterprises, and dabbled in real estate. All of that changed in late 1996, when one of his Pacific Capital bankers told him about the possibility of lacing the Atlantic seabed with fiber-optic cables that could rush electronic information over the Internet and across continents. 
 For the telecommunications business as a whole, 1996 was a watershed year. Local telephone markets and cable television rates were deregulated, opening both businesses to new competition. Experts predicted a broad shift in which amalgams of cable, telephone and Internet companies would offer new forms of communications, commerce and entertainment. Though broadly hailed as revolutionary, this new world was not, alas, just around the corner. 
 Nonetheless, Wall Street turned on the spigot, and trillions of dollars flowed toward old and new telecom companies poised to exploit the opportunities. The better your story, the more money you got. Gary Winnick, with an intimate understanding of how to sell to the Street, had a very good story.
 Early in 1997, he met Mr. Silverman, his lawyer friend, for lunch at a Chinese restaurant in Los Angeles. Mr. Winnick, while often animated, was particularly hyped up that day.
 ''I've gotten a premonition,'' Mr. Silverman recalled Mr. Winnick telling him. ''Something big is about to happen.''
 ''What are you talking about?'' Mr. Silverman asked, amused.
 ''I don't know,'' Mr. Winnick replied. ''But it's going to be big.'' 
 In March 1997, about a month after that lunch, Mr. Winnick opened Global Crossing's doors. He had scant operating experience in telecommunications -- he got up to speed on the fiber-optics market by, among other things, watching a video -- and had never actually run a business. But he put $20 million into the venture and made himself chairman. Then he raised more money and hired contractors to build an optics web linking the United States, Britain, the Netherlands and Germany. A little over a year later, the company's United States-to-Britain link was operating and, with the telecom and Internet booms in full throttle, customers lined up.
 Fiber optics were cheaper for companies to use than old-fashioned copper wires, and Global leased space on its network to big telecom companies and others that wanted to resell the service. It was a relatively predictable business, and at first demand was strong. To ramp things up, Mr. Winnick needed to convince investors not only that Global could keep laying cable beneath oceans, but also that demand would stay robust and prices strong.
 ''Gary sold Global like you'd sell bonds, and it became bigger than he'd ever imagined,'' said one longtime associate of Mr. Winnick. ''All of those people who had disowned him after Drexel for 10 years suddenly started coming around again.''
 In a three-year whirlwind, Mr. Winnick tapped the stock and bond markets for $20 billion, all on the prospect that Global would keep growing and securing new customers. Global went public in August 1998, its shares leaping from $9.50 to $13.40 the first day of trading. Less than two years later, with the stock at a peak of about $64, the market valued Global at $47 billion -- more than PepsiCo, more than CBS, more than McDonald's.
 None of Global's financials justified this. It lost $20 million on sales of just $424 million in 1998, and it would never earn a penny in profits after that. In fact, losses would balloon. In 2000 alone, Global lost $1.4 billion, a staggering amount for any start-up, no matter how bright its future.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Winnick's $20 million initial stake in Global was, at its height, worth more than $6 billion. He had become a billionaire faster than anyone in American history -- faster than Bill Gates, faster than John D. Rockefeller -- and his picture landed on the cover of Forbes magazine, with a headline that read ''Getting Rich at the Speed of Light.''
 While earnings weren't growing, Global's aspirations were. It planned to lay fiber beneath the Pacific, dominate the Internet and enter the local phone business. Mr. Winnick used Global's inflated stock value to buy other companies. He made a failed run at US West and then snapped up Frontier, a sleepy but profitable phone company in Rochester. Frontier, the nation's fifth-largest long-distance carrier, was staffed by old-economy workers, the kind who climbed telephone poles in winter to replace wires. 
 MR. WINNICK'S team also gave large donations to Republicans and Democrats, hired well-connected lobbyists in Washington and secured Wall Street's loyalty, including that of Jack Grubman, a Salomon Smith Barney analyst who played carnival barker for the telecom joyride of the 1990's. Mr. Grubman, whose firm reaped hefty fees for underwriting Global's stock and for advising it on acquisitions, lavishly praised Global in his investor reports.
 Almost as quickly as it began, it was over. The Internet bubble burst and dozens of telecom companies collapsed. Global Crossing watched customers abandon its 100,000-mile fiber-optics network. Hemorrhaging cash and facing withering prices and $12 billion in debt it couldn't repay, Global filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in early 2002. The company recently emerged from bankruptcy as a shadow of its former self. About 12,000 people, including many from Frontier, lost their jobs and their pensions. 
 Frontier ''was a perfect old telephone company for 100 years and the stock was all widows and orphans,'' said Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a Democrat whose district includes Rochester. ''Then the sharpies came to town and in almost no time left lots of people destitute, people who had spent their entire lives at the phone company.'' 
 Mr. Winnick placed $25 million of his own money in an escrow account to reimburse Frontier workers whose pensions vanished. His contribution was a fraction of the $300 million lost by the company's employees but was an unusual gesture nonetheless. ''You can say he didn't put much money in vis-a-vis how much he made at Global Crossing, but what other C.E.O. has put any money into a company that collapsed?'' said Norman Brownstein, a lawyer close to Mr. Winnick who served briefly on Global's board.
 In his Congressional testimony in 2002, Mr. Winnick offered his thoughts on his company's fate. ''Global Crossing's bankruptcy, based on the facts known to me, is not a result of fraud but of a catastrophe that befell an entire industry sector,'' he said. ''I don't offer this as an excuse because it's certainly not an acceptable excuse. It's an explanation.''
 Others disagree. Susan Kalla, a telecom analyst at Friedman Billings Ramsey, said Mr. Winnick inflated the scope of every deal he struck and overstated what he was able to charge for access to Global's network. ''I believe this guy has set American business culture back greatly,'' she said. ''He wasted billions and billions of dollars that could have been spent on far more useful purposes. He's set innovation in the industry back by a decade because he, and others like him, beat investors down so badly. 
 ''This was just about speculation,'' she said.
 Analysts, investors and former employees have all criticized Mr. Winnick for selling large holdings of Global stock. According to the J.P. Morgan suit, he sold $860 million worth of stock from 1999 to 2001, and the lawsuit contends that most was sold at a time when serious problems at the company were not being publicly disclosed. (Mr. Winnick's representatives contest that figure, saying he sold $735 million worth of stock.) 
 Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Winnick said that most of his net worth came from his Global investment, and he denied bailing out of Global, saying that he had sold only 30 percent of his holdings. 
 His lawyer, Mr. Christensen, said that all Mr. Winnick's stock sales were preplanned or tied to the normal course of business -- including a sale of $123 million of shares in May 2001 that has drawn S.E.C. scrutiny. 
 In the months before that sale, Global's managers were on tenterhooks about the company's precarious finances, according to documents introduced in various lawsuits. One internal Global e-mail message from a customer service representative to a company vice president in March 2000 said the company was ''losing customers left and right'' because of ''network problems'' and ''poor service.'' Three months later, Leo Hindery, the company's chief executive at the time, sent a memo to Mr. Winnick saying that Global's business ''niche'' was ''going to die.''
 The J.P. Morgan lawsuit raises questions about what Mr. Winnick knew about Global's finances. It says that Mr. Winnick and other Global Crossing executives ''personally oversaw and reviewed Global Crossing's financial results'' and ''were aware of Global Crossing's precarious financial position.''
 At meetings in April 2001, senior Global executives discussed that revenues were going to fall $1 billion short of earnings estimates that had already been shared with the public, according to memos uncovered by Congressional investigators. Mr. Winnick did not attend those meetings, but he sold his shares a month later -- with, he told Congress, the approval of Global's chief executive.
 In early June 2001, about two weeks after Mr. Winnick sold those shares, Global's lawyers closed the window on all insider stock sales, citing the company's deteriorating finances. Although Mr. Winnick orchestrated most of Global's biggest deals, raised all of the company's initial financing, answered analysts' questions at road shows, kept in daily contact with a string of executives and even supervised landscaping at Global's headquarters in Beverly Hills, he told Congressional investigators that it was not until that point that he learned Global would not hit its numbers. (His lawyer says others at the company did the numbers-crunching.)
 Mr. Winnick's explanation drew incredulity in 2002 from Representative Billy Tauzin, a Louisiana Republican and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which was investigating Global's collapse. ''It's a little hard for us to understand how a corporation can function like that, and how you, Mr. Winnick, could be at the head of this corporation and be so out of the loop,'' he said at the time.
 Other Global executives also profited handsomely from a wave of stock sales. As a whole, the company's culture was, one former senior Global executive said, ''just a hot-deal shop.''
 ''There was this dichotomy between this small cabal in Beverly Hills and thousands of people in the rest of the country,'' said the former executive, who requested anonymity. ''It was put together by a bunch of flippers who saw an amazing gravy train and nothing else.''
 Coudert Brothers, a law firm retained by Global to examine its accounting practices after it filed for bankruptcy protection, said in a 2003 report that while Global's accounting practices passed legal muster, its management left something to be desired. ''While not necessarily in breach of their obligations as fiduciaries, the company's management, board and outside advisers did not satisfy what we believe are appropriate standards of corporate stewardship and professionalism,'' the report said. 
 Mr. Christensen said that Mr. Winnick's role at Global was largely limited to outside fund-raising and deal making and that the bulk of the company's operations, including highly disputed transactions involving communication capacity ''swaps'' with other companies, were left to others at Global.
 The J.P. Morgan lawsuit contends, however, that Mr. Winnick, aware of the deteriorating telecom market, helped put together what the lawsuit described as an accounting ''scam'' designed to secure $1.7 billion in bank loans in August and September 2001. Even before then, the suit said, Mr. Winnick pressured his sales force to conclude capacity swaps that inflated Global's revenue.
 In the summer of 2001, Global and Enron began discussing the possibility of Global paying Enron $650 million for its fiber-optic network in exchange for Enron promising to pay Global $650 million to use the network -- a swap that would have potentially bolstered both companies' reported revenue without actually costing either company any money. A June 11, 2001, e-mail message that the lawsuit attributes to Mr. Winnick cites a conversation between Mr. Winnick and Jeffrey K. Skilling, then Enron's chief executive, about Global's hopes to complete a swap with Enron. 
 Mr. Christensen said that Mr. Winnick placed a call to Mr. Skilling about the swap, but that his phone call was not returned.
 Two months later, according to another Global e-mail message cited in the lawsuit, the company's sales force was pressured to complete swaps with a list of high-priority clients. ''Winnick wants to make sure we are putting the right amount of energy in the right places,'' the message said.
 In the following months, ''Winnick continued to take advantage of his relationship with people at Enron,'' the lawsuit contends. On Sept. 5, 2001, shortly after Mr. Skilling left Enron and months before the company plunged into bankruptcy, Mr. Winnick met with Enron's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, in New York. Lodwrick M. Cook, then Global's chairman, said in an interview that he had arranged the meeting because he and Mr. Lay were old friends and Mr. Lay wanted to meet Mr. Winnick.
 ACCORDING to Mr. Cook and two other people briefed on the meeting, Mr. Winnick and Mr. Lay discussed the $650 million swap. Mr. Christensen said that the meeting was merely a ''meet and greet'' between Mr. Winnick and Mr. Lay and that no sales matters were discussed. He noted that the swap never occurred.
 Many of Global's accounting and sales practices remain a matter of intense dispute. While the Justice Department came down hard on another telecom start-up, Qwest Communications, indicting four of its former executives on accounting fraud charges, no Global Crossing executives have been prosecuted. ''There just wasn't a crime there, and the fact that the Justice Department, bless their hearts, apparently decided to move on helps emphasize the point that people were doing their best at the company,'' Mr. Christensen said. 
 Representative James C. Greenwood, a Pennsylvania Republican who oversaw a second Congressional investigation of Global, said that some of the company's accounting practices, such as swapping capacity and booking it as revenue, did cross the line, but that it was difficult to build a criminal case on bookkeeping arcana.
 ''I personally believe Mr. Winnick knew perfectly well why he engaged in these transactions,'' Mr. Greenwood said in an interview. ''I believe that it was a fraudulent practice and a conscious effort to present a false picture to the financial community. 
 ''I wish they had prosecuted,'' he added, referring to the Justice Department.
 Mr. Christensen disagreed. ''The accounting rules at the time were being properly deployed by Global Crossing,'' he said.
 The fact that the S.E.C. is ''saying it's problematic now doesn't mean it was problematic then,'' he added, noting that Global's books were approved by Arthur Andersen, its outside auditor. (Andersen closed shop in 2002 after being found guilty of obstruction of justice relating to accounting work it performed for Enron.)
 Those closest to Mr. Winnick say they feel that he has been unfairly vilified for simply having the acumen to be in the right place at the right time. ''It bothers me when people use the word greed when talking about him. He's given so much money back,'' said Rosalie Zalis, an executive at the Pacific Capital Group and director of one of his philanthropies. ''Does he like to make money? Sure. But he gives back.'' She said he had donated about $60 million to various charities.
 Mr. Christensen said Mr. Winnick earned his wealth through gutsy and calculated investments generated by a fertile imagination. ''He was and always will be a visionary,'' Mr. Christensen said. ''He doesn't claim to be a philosopher. But he is a business visionary.''
 To others, however, Mr. Winnick's business contribution at Global remains something of a mystery. 
 ''Did Global Crossing fabricate their business? Did they make it all up?'' asked Patrick J. Comack, a telecom analyst at Guzman & Company. ''I think regulators are still trying to figure that out.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Winnick, founder of Global Crossing, at a Congressional hearing in Washington in October 2002. (Photo by Marissa Roth)(pg. 1)
Gary Winnick oversaw his company's landscaping, including its ornate fountains, but said he didn't know it had financial trouble. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)
Federal Judge Gerard E. Lynch found enough merit to allow a suit by Global Crossing's former bankers to go forward. The bankers say the company defrauded them. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 Representative James Greenwood said he believed that Global Crossing misbehaved, but that it was hard to make a criminal case on bookkeeping arcana. (Photo by Jason M. Carrier/Bloomberg News)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ACCOUNTING (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (85%); BONDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EYEWITNESSES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); FIBER OPTICS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (67%); DAMAGES (67%); ETHICS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); CHRISTMAS (50%) Biographical Information; Suits and Litigation; Credit; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Philanthropy

COMPANY: LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Global Crossing; Morgan, J P, Chase & Co; Global Crossing

TICKER: LVLT (NYSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Timothy O'Brien; Gary Winnick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



372 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Styles Similar in Bush and Kerry Duel on Deficit Numbers

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
For months, Senator John Kerry and his top advisers have accused President Bush of pushing through tax cuts and big spending that have added trillions of dollars to the federal debt.
 Then early last week, Mr. Kerry's campaign boasted that he would offer ''more than twice as much in new tax cuts'' as the president and still follow through on his promise of a $653 billion health care plan. 
 The campaign trumpeted its proposal for ''more than $400 billion of new tax cuts'' in a news release that declared ''these tax cuts are fully paid for without increasing the deficit by one dime,'' before going on to list a variety of tax breaks for college tuition costs, health care and investment in new technology. 
 While Mr. Kerry carefully listed ways he would pay for the new tax cuts, totaling $419 billion over 10 years, he has also called for permanently extending Mr. Bush's tax cuts for middle-income families. Because those tax cuts are set to expire under current law, making them permanent would cost the Treasury about $425 billion over 10 years.
 Budget analysts see striking similarities in the ways Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush have glossed over major omissions in their goals to reduce the deficit.
 Each candidate has promised to cut the deficit by half over the next four years, from its level this year of roughly $400 billion. And each has proposed major tax cuts without saying how he would pay for them. Each has also avoided the subject of the future costs of war in Iraq and the much bigger fiscal problems that lie just beyond their four-year horizon, when 76 million baby boomers begin to reach retirement age. 
 Nor has either candidate budgeted for changing the alternative minimum tax, which was originally created to prevent the wealthy from taking too much advantage of sophisticated tax breaks. 
 But the alternative minimum tax is not indexed to rising incomes and is expected to snare millions of middle-income families over the next few years. Both candidates have said they want to prevent that from happening. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that doing so could cost $549 billion over 10 years.
 ''It's unclear to me that either candidate is better,'' said Robert Bixby, director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan research group that has denounced the Bush administration's budget policies for years as reckless and misleading. ''Both of them have the same goal, and both of them are avoiding many of the same issues.'' 
 Last week, the two battled over who would do more to cut taxes for middle-income families. Citing new calculations by the Congressional Budget Office, Mr. Kerry denounced Mr. Bush's tax cuts as overwhelmingly favoring the wealthy at the expense of the middle class.
 The Bush administration fought back, saying the tax cuts had reduced tax burdens at every income level. Each candidate has accused the other of fiscal irresponsibility and playing with the numbers.
 ''John Kerry only has a patchwork of proposals that simply don't add up,'' said Terry Holt, a spokesman for the Bush-Cheney campaign. ''He has spent what he would raise from taxes a half-dozen different ways.''
 Democrats have accused Mr. Bush of presiding over the worst fiscal deterioration in history, from projected surpluses of $5 trillion over 10 years to projected deficits of $5 trillion if all of Mr. Bush's tax cuts become permanent.
 ''The difference is between night and day,'' said Gene Sperling, a top economic adviser to Mr. Kerry. ''George Bush didn't just run up the deficit. He completely changed the climate in Washington from a rare moment of bipartisan fiscal discipline to a 'deficits don't matter, pay for anything' kind of culture.''
 Mr. Bush's tax plans would cost about $1.13 trillion over 10 years, according to the White House's own estimates. Mr. Bush would freeze spending on domestic discretionary programs outside of the military and domestic security, but that would affect only about 20 percent of the federal budget.
 Mr. Kerry's plan would raise $860 billion over 10 years by reversing recent tax cuts for families with incomes above $200,000 a year; he would use that money to finance his $653 billion health care plan and a host of other programs.
 Compared with Mr. Bush's plans, Mr. Kerry's proposals would amount to an increase in taxes. But the full panoply of Mr. Kerry's proposals would lead to tax cuts totaling $425 billion over 10 years, which would rank him as one of the biggest tax-cutters in history. 
 Under pressure to shore up his fiscal credibility, Mr. Kerry has in recent weeks scaled back some proposals, including one for a national service corps, and warned that other proposals may have to wait if there is no money to pay for them.
 But he still offers an ambitious list. Mr. Kerry would spend $207 billion on education over the next 10 years, from expansion of after-school programs and school modernization to tax credits for college tuition costs. Other major proposals include $55 billion for veterans' health care and military families; $30 billion in tax cuts and spending for high technology; and up to $80 billion for an extra 40,000 soldiers.
 In a tacit admission that the numbers are hard to reconcile, Mr. Kerry's supporters argue that the crucial issue is not so much the numbers as the commitment of the candidate to reduce the deficit. 
 ''It is imperative that the next president has an internalized sense of how important this is,'' said Robert E. Rubin, who was Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton and is an informal Kerry adviser. ''The only way you are going to deal with it is if you have a very committed president.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''AT ISSUE: Approaches to Reducing the Deficit''President Bush and John Kerry both say they will cut the federal budget deficit in half over the next five years. But economists say their plans do not account for other likely costs, such as war and reconstruction in Iraq or fixing the alternative minimum tax. A look at the two candidates plans:JOHN KERRYTAX CUTSMake permanent Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the middle classRepeal those for households earning more than $200,000THE COST: The Kerry campaign says these would result in savings of $860 billion over 10 years as compared with Mr. Bush's plans. But measured against current law, under which some tax cuts are due to expire, the proposal would result in an overall tax cut of $425 billion.NEW INITIATIVESPlans include more than $1 trillion in new spending over 10 years, including $653 billion for health care, $207 billion for education and $55 billion for veterans and military families.OTHER ISSUESMr. Kerry envisions savings of $300 billion from a commission to eliminate what he calls ''corporate welfare,'' and $55 billion from closing tax loopholes.PRESIDENT BUSHTAX CUTSMake permanent all individual tax cutsMake permanent estate and gift tax cutsTHE COST: According to the White House, the cost of making the tax cuts permanent would be $929 billion over 10 years, and $1.13 trillion for all Mr. Bush's tax and revenue-raising proposals taken together.NEW INITIATIVESMr. Bush's campaign has not released many details about a proposed agenda for a second term. His plan calls for freezing or cutting all discretionary spending outside the military and homeland security.OTHER ISSUESMuch of Mr. Bush's plan relies on the assumption that expanding economic growth will lead to higher tax revenues.(Sources by Kerry campaign
Office of Management and Budget
 Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (66%); IRAQ WAR (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



373 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: In a Town Hit by Job Losses, Bush Has Doubters and Loyalists

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ST. JOSEPH, Mich., Aug. 11 

 BODY:
Kenneth Hawkins has put in 28 years at an auto supply plant here owned by Bosch. Now he is hoping to hang on to his maintenance job for a few more years until he retires.
 Bosch, a German company that is the world's largest auto supplier, said Aug. 6 that it would lay off 530 workers at the plant, which makes brakes. Union leaders said they were told that much of the work would go to Asia and Brazil and that the remaining 570 jobs here were in jeopardy as well. 
 Mr. Hawkins, 60, has seen this before. ''Whirlpool is gone, Clark Equipment, Auto Specialists,'' he said, ticking off the names of local factories that have closed or substantially scaled back their operations over the years. ''We don't make nothing here now in the United States.''
 The plight of Mr. Hawkins, and others like him, has become a central issue of the presidential campaign in this state, which President Bush narrowly lost in 2000 to Al Gore. This year, Mr. Bush has emphasized that the economy is turning the corner, while his Democratic opponent, Senator John Kerry, has focused on the exodus of manufacturing jobs.
 [On Friday, campaigning in hard-hit Flint, Mich., Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards, zeroed in on the employment issue. ''I've seen on a really personal level what happens when jobs are lost,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''We don't want to create jobs in the abstract, we want to bring them to the places and areas where they have been lost.''] 
 The Federal Reserve agreed with Mr. Bush's assessment of the economy this week, saying that the country ''appears poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion.'' But the persistent lack of new jobs, made apparent in the latest government data, resonates strongly with voters here.
 Since early 2001, Michigan and Ohio have ranked second and third in job losses, trailing only Massachusetts, according to government data compiled by Global Insight, a consulting firm that tracks regional economic trends. Mr. Kerry, in his appearances here, has said that the jobs being added are in lower-paying industries and often without benefits.
 A poll released Wednesday by EPIC-MRA, an independent polling and research firm based in Lansing, Mich., said Mr. Kerry had gained ground in the state in the last month, widening a lead of a couple percentage points to seven, giving him 49 percent of 600 voters surveyed compared with 42 percent for Mr. Bush, in a poll with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
 The pollsters added that the economy was increasingly being cited as the biggest issue by Michigan voters.
 ''The St. Joseph, southwestern area of Michigan has been the true bellwether of Michigan going back to 1988,'' said Ed Sarpolus, vice president of EPIC-MRA. ''You have a lot of conservatives, but also a lot of people with blue collar backgrounds and a large black population in Benton Harbor.''
 But despite the strong support of the leadership of the United Auto Workers union, Mr. Kerry is not an automatic choice even for the union workers whose jobs are in jeopardy.
 Brian Rogers, a 34-year-old truck driver at the Bosch plant who is likely to be among those laid off, said he voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 but was undecided for November.
 ''I'm probably a Libertarian at heart,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''I'd normally vote conservatively. But the prospect of losing his job ''opened my eyes to what's going on in the country,'' he said, adding, ''This one hits home.''
 Buster Bohn, a 44-year-old machine operator said: ''America used to be the No.1 manufacturer and we're not no more. We're becoming a dinosaur.''
 But Mr. Bohn added that he voted Republican and would continue to do so, largely because of social issues. 
 In a recent union newsletter, one Bosch worker, Janet King, said that ''a lot of our male members, because so many of them hunt, think Democrats want to take away their guns and that is their main reason for voting Republican.''
 Recalling those comments, John Holmes, a 35-year-old assembly worker, said in an interview outside the plant, ''If we don't change our way of doing things, we're not going to have the jobs to buy the bullets.''
 Bosch bought the St. Joseph plant from Allied Signal in 1996 but now finds itself squeezed. Its main customers, the Michigan-based Big Three automakers, continue to lose market share and are increasingly pressing suppliers to cut costs. That makes it increasingly hard for the Bosch plant to compete against overseas plants where wages and health care costs are lower. 
 The pressures are not exclusive to the auto industry. On Monday, La-Z-Boy, based in Monroe, Mich., said it was shuttering two factories in middle Pennsylvania and a plant in Booneville, Miss., and moving the work abroad. Electrolux, the Swedish appliance maker, plans to close a plant in Greenville, Mich., next year that employs 2,700 workers and move the work to Mexico. 
 ''It's a global pricing issue,'' said Becky MacDonald, a Bosch spokeswoman. ''We're bidding our prices in the global market rather than the local market, and our costs in St. Joseph are not competitive.''
 Some workers say the Bush administration is not doing enough to stem the blue-collar job losses. 
 ''People think the laws need to be changed if all of our jobs are going out of the country,'' said Lisa Gregory, a 39-year-old quality inspector, who added that Kerry buttons have become more popular since the layoff announcement. 
 Across the street from the factory, at Dale's Donut Shop, Bob Camp Sr. and Bob Camp Jr., who own a bar and restaurant, said they were troubled by the loss of so many jobs but planned to vote again for Mr. Bush. 
 The Camps like Mr. Bush because, among other reasons, he raised the deduction small-business owners can take for capital equipment to $100,000 from $25,000, allowing them to buy refrigerators and other equipment more cheaply. 
 Craig Reynolds, 37, is still adjusting to the news of the layoffs. Mr. Reynolds has been at the plant for 16 years and his father worked here for decades. He is a solid Kerry supporter.
 ''It's a tough blow to the community, because the jobs to replace this will be much lower paying,'' he said. 
 ''This placed raised me,'' he added. ''It's tough to see.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers during a shift change Thursday at a Bosch auto supply plant in St. Joseph, Mich. The company says it will lay off 530 employees. (Photo by Alan Matthew for The New York Times)Chart: ''The Jobs Picture''While some swing states have added jobs since the beginning of the 2001 recession, others, such as Michigan and Ohio, have been particularly hard hit.Change in nonfarm employment, March 2001 to June 2004*Swing states1. Nev.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +74PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +7.0%2. AlaskaTHOUSANDS OF JOBS: +17PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +6.13. N.M.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +33PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +4.44. Wyo.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +9PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +3.65. Fla.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +260PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +3.66. Mont.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +13PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +3.37. HawaiiTHOUSANDS OF JOBS: +18PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +3.28. Ariz.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +64PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +2.89. IdahoTHOUSANDS OF JOBS: +16PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +2.810. Md.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +55PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +2.211. R.I.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +8PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +1.612. Va.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +54PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +1.513. N.J.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +47PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +1.214. N.D.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +4PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +1.115. S.D.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +3PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +0.916. UtahTHOUSANDS OF JOBS: +5PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +0.517. S.C.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: +8PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +0.418. Me.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: 0PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 0.019. Mo.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: 0PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 0.020. Wis.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -2PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.121. Vt.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -1PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.422. Wash.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -13PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.523. Neb.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -6PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.624. La.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -12PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.625. Minn.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -17PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.626. Ark.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -8PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.727. Ore.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -13PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.828. Miss.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -10PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -0.929. Tenn.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -27PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.030. Del.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -4PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.031. Tex.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -103PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.132. Ky.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -22PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.233. N.H.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: --8PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.334. Pa.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -74PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.335. W.Va.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -10PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.436. Calif.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -205PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.437. Ind.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -43PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.538. N.C.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -71PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.839. Iowa*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -27PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -1.940. Kan.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -28PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -2.141. Ala.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -40PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -2.142. N.Y.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -208PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -2.443. Conn.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -41PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -2.444. Ga.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -100PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -2.545. Okla.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -46PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -3.146. Colo.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -81PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -3.647. Ill.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -222PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -3.748. Ohio*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -219PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -3.949. Mich.*THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -213PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -4.650. Mass.THOUSANDS OF JOBS: -191PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -5.7(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); STATISTICS (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TRENDS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOSCH LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BOSCHLTD (NSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3694 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES (92%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (71%); AL GORE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



374 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; People Power; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: The Curious Fate of Populism: How Politics Turned Into Pose

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY NUNBERG. 
Geoffrey Nunberg, a Stanford linguist, is heard on NPR's ''Fresh Air'' and is author of ''Going Nucular'' (PublicAffairs, 2004).

 BODY:
SHOP like a populist,'' wrote a columnist in The St. Petersburg Times earlier in the month, recommending a local store that specializes in quirky collectibles like old soap boxes and bowling pins.
 That's what the ''pop'' of ''populist'' has come to, a century after the disappearance of the Populists, or People's Party, who were a powerful political force in the 1890's. They advocated restrictions on corporate power, the direct election of United States senators, an eight-hour day, and a graduated income tax -- proposals that led critics to call them ''wild-eyed, rattle-brained fanatics.'' 
 Today, though, populism can be as much a matter of style as substance. In Boston Magazine, Jon Keller speaks of John Kerry's difficulty in ''convincing southern Nascar dads and Wal-Mart moms of the populist empathy of a windsurfing New England multimillionaire.'' National Review's Jay Nordlinger writes that ''President Bush is engaged in a little populist campaigning himself today -- he's going to Indiana and Michigan, for a bus tour.'' 
 After the demise of the Populist movement, the term itself was chiefly used to disparage demagogues like Louisiana's governor Huey P. Long. It was only in the 1960's that a new generation of politicians began to reclaim the label, often shorn of its inconvenient connotations of class struggle. 
 They gave the term a second life. Over the past two decades, use of the term ''populism'' has been 15 times as common in the press as it was during the Eisenhower years. But now it can refer not just to those who speak for the downtrodden, but to anyone or anything whose appeal seems down home, down to earth or down market. 
 In recent articles the word has been applied to Michael Moore, John Edwards, Garth Brooks, Steven Spielberg, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Fox News, Burger King, Donald Trump, Muktada al-Sadr, the Google initial public stock offering and Oscar de la Renta's new mid-price fashion line.
 In the course of things, ''populism'' has lost not just its capital letter, but its connection to the sense of ''the people'' that the name was derived from. That's ''the people,'' not as the populace or the citizenry, but as what William Jennings Bryan described as the ''unnumbered throng'' who were oppressed by the corporations, the money interests and the trusts, ''aggregated wealth and capital, imperious, arrogant, compassionless.''
 Those antagonisms sound creaky now, like ''the people'' itself. The ''money interest'' has yielded to ''the elite,'' as populism has become a matter of ''values,'' rather than class. 
 ''What divides America is authenticity, not something hard or ugly like economics,'' as Thomas Frank suggests in ''What's the Matter With Kansas?,'' a look at how the new populism has captured the imagination of the state that gave birth to the old one.
 True, ''the people'' still exerts a nostalgic hold on some. Last week, two New Yorkers began distributing a ''People's Guide to the Republican Convention,'' a title that made it clear that the guide was compiled for the benefit of protesters, not delegates. And Vice President Al Gore used the phrase in his acceptance speech at the Democratic convention of 2000: ''They're for the powerful. We're for the people.''
 But ''the people'' were absent from the speeches at last month's Democratic convention, and it would be surprising if they were allowed to appear at the Republican convention -- unless accompanied by minders like ''ordinary,'' ''hard-working'' or ''good.''
 Nowadays, ''power to the people'' is a slogan used by both Microsoft and I.B.M. And ''man of the people'' usually has a sarcastic inflection. 
 The Boston Herald styles the Democratic presidential candidate as ''Man of the People Kerry.'' On CNN's ''Capital Gang,'' Mark Shields wonders how ''that populist man of the people, George W. Bush,'' will deal with the New York firefighters who have been waiting for a raise since September 11, 2001.
 The sarcasm usually reflects skepticism about the candidates' authenticity, rather than about their policies. (''He is not a man of the people, this French-speaking windsurfer,'' says Richard Reeves of Senator Kerry -- transportation again.) Populism used to be a matter of speaking for the people; now it's a matter of speaking like them -- dropping your g's, strategically mispronouncing ''nuclear'' and throwing in references to motor sports.
 Old-style populists made few concessions to popular style. The ''cross of gold'' speech that secured Bryan the presidential nomination at the Democratic convention of 1896 and a place at the head of the Populist ticket as well, is remembered today for its stirring peroration: ''You shall not press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns; you shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold.'' But it also included a thousand-word, redoubtably formal, disquisition on bimetallism and monetary policy: ''Let me remind you that there is no intention of affecting those contracts which, according to present laws, are made payable in gold.''
 The average sentence-length in Bryan's speech was 104 words; the average sentence-length in George W. Bush's 2000 acceptance speech was less than 15 words.
 Rhetoric changes with the times, of course. But even if you simplified Bryan's diction and syntax and pruned some of his more florid turns of phrase, the speech wouldn't come off now as ''populist,'' but as artificial, aloof and a little wonky. 
 At the time, though, no one seemed to mind. What seems most remote about that bygone age is the image of thousands of farmers and small-town mechanics flocking to railroad depots to hear their champion repeat the ''cross of gold'' speech as he campaigned across the West in the summer of 1896. 
 They may not have understood all of the arguments, or the allusions to Napoleon, Jefferson, Peter the Hermit, Cicero and Catiline, but they were drawn to a champion who could make their case sound so exalted.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Fox News)
(Photo by Matt Campbell/European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
(Photo by Sang Tan/Associated Press)
(Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Hadi Mizban/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); PARENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (56%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



375 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Intelligence: Why a Fix Is So Elusive

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE Olympics have opened in Greece, carrying with it fears of a replay of the event that opened the era of televised, large-scale terror: the 1972 Munich attack. Madison Square Garden, the site of the Republican National Convention, is so tempting a target that Midtown Manhattan will be sealed off in ways never seen, even in the first days after Sept. 11.
 And in Washington, there is so much talk of the ''pre-election threat'' that a senior White House official was insisting to reporters on Thursday that Election Day will go forward no matter what Osama bin Laden may be contemplating to influence the outcome.
 But if the threat of terror seems imminent this summer, the solutions to American intelligence failings, as painfully documented in the report of the 9/11 Commission, will take years, maybe a generation, to carry out. And that is the crux of the current Washington disconnect: In an age when voters are accustomed to near-instant action -- quick tax cuts to spur a lagging economy or the quick toppling of the Taliban and Saddam Hussein -- retooling the early warning system is an entirely different matter. Even if the problem weren't so complex, what Washington calls the ''intelligence community'' is so big, and so turf-conscious that this is a project condemned to move at the speed of landing an astronaut on Mars. 
 So in the absence of quick solutions, the watchwords in Washington these days are simple: Look busy.
 No one wants to appear to be behind the curve in fixing a broken system. So on Tuesday, Mr. Bush nominated a new C.I.A. director, selecting Porter Goss, a one-time spy who has led the House Intelligence Committee, even before anyone has thought through how his job will be redefined by the intelligence overhaul. In fact, some believe that the confirmation of Mr. Goss may be a distraction from the bigger issues.
 For his part, Mr. Kerry instantly embraced every recommendation of the 9/11 Commission, even as his advisers offer reservations about which of its ideas will work and which won't. Meanwhile, Congress is holding hearings on intelligence dysfunction, trying to show that big, big reforms are coming. It's just that no consensus has emerged on what powers the proposed new national intelligence director should have, or how the intelligence agencies should work together.
 Why is this so hard? The answers have to do with history, with budget power (this is Washington, after all) and with an intelligence community that looks like General Motors in the 1960's -- lots of different divisions competing for common resources, factories that manufacture incompatible parts and a disdain for anything invented (or gathered) elsewhere. The difference, noted one senior member of the 9/11 Commission recently, is that ''G.M. has changed a lot in the past 40 years.''
 Actually, much has improved since Sept. 11, and the C.I.A. and F.B.I., by all accounts, are doing a lot better at talking to each other. Yet one senior intelligence official noted last week that it was still virtually impossible to get all the experts on North Korea's nuclear program -- the satellite photo analysts, the C.I.A. human-intelligence specialists, the Air Force team that detects tell-tale emissions from nuclear reprocessing, the energy department nuclear experts and the economic experts who look for that long-sought sign that the bankrupt country might implode -- to assess their data together.
 ''There's a reason it took four years to come to the now-obvious conclusion that A.Q. Khan was selling centrifuges and arming Pyongyang and Tehran and Tripoli,'' said one official who served in several administrations, talking about the head of the Pakistani nuclear program, who put together the largest nuclear export business in history. The Korea experts were separated from the Pakistan experts, who were understandably preoccupied with Mr. bin Laden. No single agency was responsible for putting together the whole picture. 
 It is a tale that echoes the one detailing the missed opportunities to uncover the 9/11 plot, or the story of why Secretary of State Colin Powell never saw the Defense Intelligence Agency memo doubting the credibility of Curveball, the Iraqi defector who told tall tales about mobile biological weapons labs. 
 But not all the problems that led Mr. Powell and his colleagues astray on Iraq can be solved by bureaucratic rearrangement. Iraq, said Richard A. Falkenrath, who just left the White House as deputy homeland security adviser, was a problem born of ''bad tradecraft.'' ''It was a failure of performance,'' he said, ''not organization.'' 
 But for now, Washington is consumed by the what it calls the stovepipe problem -- the failure to move intelligence across agencies. It is the inevitable result of a system that produces one specialist-agency after another, creating one to look at satellite photos, another to tap into phone calls and another to run spies and so on. Save for the C.I.A., many are run out of the Defense Department, which is why the defense secretary controls more than 80 percent of the intelligence budget. And that may explain why Donald H. Rumsfeld sounded less than enthusiastic this week about getting rid of stovepipes.
 ''Every time you bust down a stovepipe, you run the risk of information getting compromised,'' he said. 
 You also run the risk of putting a Congressional committee out of business. After all, committees, from Armed Services to Government Operations, preside over the Pentagon's intelligence budget. ''This is why,'' said Mr. Falkenrath, who dealt with this issue when the Homeland Security Department was set up, ''you spend a lot of time negotiating over intelligence budgets with people who came out of the department of agriculture.'' 
 Mr. Bush fudged the issue when he backed the idea of a national intelligence director; the White House said that this new official would ''coordinate'' budgets, a word that always raises eyebrows. That is why some of the hardest questions about the reorganization are coming from people whom Mr. Bush cannot easily dismiss, like Robert M. Gates, who served as C.I.A. director under the president's father.
 Now the president of Texas A&M, Mr. Gates has assembled a list of the dangers of a bad reorganization, starting with creating a national intelligence director who looks like he has the power to smash the community together, but actually doesn't. Or, as William Perry, the defense secretary under President Clinton and now an adviser to Mr. Kerry, says, ''It is entirely possible that rather than solve this problem, we will aggravate it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ESPIONAGE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TALIBAN (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); TAX LAW (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARS (54%) UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



376 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Jobs? Oil? Iraq? On Second Thought, Let's Talk Taxes

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE economy is slowing, prices are rising and the lift that came from last year's tax cuts has faded into memory. What is the White House to do?
 With the Republican National Convention just two weeks away, top advisers to President Bush are looking for a few big ideas to add some sizzle to the economic platform.
 Don't expect Mr. Bush to advocate a national sales tax to replace the income tax, even though he flirted with the idea at a campaign stop in Florida last week. The suggestion drew hoots of derision from Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, who said consumers would face a 20 percent tax on everything they bought. Bush campaign officials quickly denied that any such plan was in the works. 
 Still, Mr. Bush's advisers said the president wants to make tax reform a cornerstone of his second term, and campaign officials see the potential to win over voters by pledging to fix a system that is widely seen as complex and unfair.
 One thought is to change the system so that it focuses less on taxing what people earn and more on taxing what they spend. Even without a sales tax, this could be accomplished by letting people deduct money they put in savings and investments from their income, so they would owe taxes only on what was left -- in other words, essentially on what they spent.
 Administration officials are also looking for ways to flesh out the theme of promoting an ''ownership society'' -- dusting off ideas to partially privatize Social Security and to provide more incentives for people to own homes or start businesses.
 The political question is this: Would bold new proposals create more excitement among voters, or would they mire the campaign in debate that could detract from the goal of promoting Mr. Bush?
 It is also unclear whether voters have much appetite for another big idea from the president. Since taking office, after all, Mr. Bush has pushed through two huge tax cuts, which contributed to record deficits; a war against Iraq, which is not going especially well; and a broad expansion of Medicare, which is proving more expensive and less popular than its supporters expected.
 For all the allure of replacing a tax code that millions of people resent, even a general proposal would open up an arcane debate that would be full of potential minefields. Mr. Kerry has already been saying that the Bush tax cuts flowed overwhelmingly to the very wealthiest taxpayers, and last week he jumped on a new study by the Congressional Budget Office that, he said, showed the top 1 percent of income-earners received one-third of the recent tax-cut benefits.
 IT would be easier for Mr. Bush to come up with new incentives for increasing homeownership. But those ideas could easily seem incremental, akin to Republicans' support for tax-free medical savings accounts. Those expanded health savings accounts allow people to set aside tax-free money for medical expenses and health insurance. They help soften the impact of rising insurance costs but are unlikely to bring crowds to their feet.
 And homeownership has already climbed to record levels over the last four years, thanks mainly to the Federal Reserve Board's low interest rates.
 Mr. Bush is correct in saying that the economy is strengthening, and growth this spring was at a respectable annual pace of 3 percent. But job creation has to make up a lot of lost ground, and job growth all but stalled in June and July. Soaring oil prices have pinched consumers, making people feel poorer and causing a slowdown in retail sales.
 Economists are still betting that growth will gather speed again if oil prices recede from their current level of around $45 a barrel. But the pause makes it harder for Mr. Bush to ride along the economic trend.
 Fundamental tax reform is a big idea with potentially broad appeal: millions of people view the existing tax code as unwieldy and inequitable.
 Campaign officials say Mr. Bush has always favored ideas to make the tax code simpler and fairer, and he has already pushed for a multitude of changes aimed at shielding investment income from taxes.
 Supporters of broader change include John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary; Joshua B. Bolten, the budget director; and R.Glenn Hubbard, a former White House economic adviser who regularly consults with the Bush campaign.
 Many of Mr. Bush's advisers strongly favor a consumption-based tax, an idea that has been kicked around for years. Such a system would probably entail creating new savings accounts, bigger versions of the ''lifetime savings accounts'' that Mr. Bush has already proposed. The accounts would let people set aside thousands of dollars a year, earn investment income tax-free and use that money at any time and for any purpose.
 A consumption-based tax system would also include lower taxes on business, which is another way of eliminating taxes on investment. Businesses would be allowed to write off much or all of their investments in new equipment immediately.
 Supporters say that such a tax code would be simpler and fairer than today's system, and that it would provide powerful new incentives for people to save money. And they say it could still have progressive tax rates, so that higher-income people would pay a higher percentage of income taxes.
 Critics contend that a consumption tax would be tilted in favor of the rich, because wealthy people tend to earn a bigger share of their income from investments and can afford to save and invest more of their earnings each year.
 Within the Bush campaign, the debate centers on tactics: would Mr. Bush simply invite more trouble by offering up unfamiliar ideas that his opponents could attack as giveaways to the rich?
 Mr. Kerry was almost giddy about denouncing Mr. Bush after the president casually remarked, in answer to a question at a campaign stop, that replacing the income tax with a national sales tax was ''an interesting idea'' that was worth exploring.
 Campaign officials quickly denied that they had plans to pursue a national sales tax, but White House officials were careful to add that Mr. Bush was ''open to ideas'' on how to make the tax code fairer and simpler.
 One campaign official said the president clearly wanted to make tax reform a goal for his second term, adding that Mr. Bush felt even more strongly about the issue than he did about the centerpiece of his last tax cut -- a reduction on taxes of stock dividends and capital gains that went into effect last year.
 The administration already has a likely vehicle for a new effort: a repair of the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax that was created to stop wealthy people from taking unfair advantage of arcane tax breaks. But because the tax is not adjusted to account for inflation and rising incomes, it is expected to apply to millions of middle-income families over the next several years, forcing them to pay higher taxes.
 Democrats and Republicans agree they want to prevent that from occurring, but the cost could exceed $500 billion over 10 years. The Treasury Department is under White House orders to propose a long-term fix, and many officials see it as a perfect opportunity to rethink the broader tax code.
 But there is at least one sign that campaign officials are reluctant to explore all the details during the heat of a presidential race. Under White House instructions, the Treasury study is not due until after the elections.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Slowdown in Economic and Job Growth, Amid Rising Prices''Graph tracks the quarterly change at annual rates for Gross domestic product since 2001.Graph tracks total employment (Nonfarm payrolls) since 2001.Graph tracks inflation (annual change in the monthly level of the Consumer Price Index) since 2001.(Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAX REFORM (74%); IRAQ WAR (66%) Taxation; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



377 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Key Biscayne Makes Way For Even More Affluence

BYLINE: By NANCY BETH JACKSON

DATELINE: KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. 

 BODY:
FRANK MACKLE IV, a 38-year-old builder, recently razed two modest one-story houses on this South Florida island to make room for a megamansion. The new home, built for a local orthodontist in an ''Old World Mediterranean'' style, will have 6,500 square feet of living space and a third-floor observation deck looking toward Biscayne Bay and the Miami skyline.
 Since the mid-1990's, many of Key Biscayne's original homes have been knocked down because they were considered too small and too dated for the more affluent families moving in today. Just last month, President Richard M. Nixon's Winter White House, a ranch-style house at 500 Bay Lane, was demolished. 
 When Mr. Mackle clears a lot, he chips away at family history. His grandfather and great uncles -- Frank Jr., Elliott and Robert -- developed Key Biscayne as affordable housing for World War II veterans in the early 1950's, shortly after the Rickenbacker Causeway linked the island to Miami. They built most of the homes in the 1.25-square-mile village as well as the Key Biscayne Hotel and Villas, now the site of a luxury condominium complex.
 ''We're recycling,'' Mr. Mackle explained.
 Lifestyle changes, architectural taste, local ordinances and federal flood control concerns have accelerated this recycling on the nation's southernmost barrier reef. Only three feet above sea level, the residential section is sandwiched between state and county parks. ''The value is not in the houses but in the dirt,'' said Jud Kurlancheek, director of the Building, Zoning and Planning Department for Key Biscayne. 
 Original ''Mackles'' -- the housing stock, not the family -- sold for less than $10,000. They were bought with $500 down, and financing was provided by the Veterans Administration. Now they fetch upward of $700,000, none waterfront. Many of the 1,200-square-foot Mackles have been enlarged, improved, landscaped and otherwise disguised, but local ordinances bringing houses up to flood code now make it impractical to invest in more than cosmetic changes. If renovations exceed 50 percent of the market value of the house, excluding the lot's value, the whole structure has to be elevated to base flood levels.
 A 1952 basic Mackle on the landside of Harbor Drive, ringing Biscayne Bay on the west, recently listed at $1.5 million, but only an empty lot was found at the address.
 ''In the real world, a Mackle is worth zero,'' said Lilibet Warner, a Coldwell Banker real estate associate, who has lived in one for more than 30 years and loves it. ''But if you want to live on Key Biscayne, you have to buy a lot with a house on it.''
 In truth, there's little to be said for the Mackle, apart from sentimental value. Even as a group, they don't qualify for historic status. Architecturally, they were poorly suited for the climate and are likely to flood after a hurricane hits.
 They also don't fit today's lifestyle. Buyers shopping for his-and-her bathrooms, smart homes and media rooms find it hard to believe that bedrooms can be so minuscule and that washers and dryers are in an attached shed.
 The Nixon home, which made Key Biscayne a dateline when the president wintered in his nondescript concrete home from 1969 to 1974, fell without protest. Edgardo Defortuna, 47, the Argentine-born president of Fortune International Realty in Miami, will build a five-bedroom home with 14,681 square feet of living space.
 Nixon's neighbors were Bebe Rebozo, a local banker, and Robert H. Abplanalp, who made his fortune in aerosol cans. Mr. DeFortuna will probably share the stretch of rare private bayside beach with John Devaney, a 34-year-old bond trader who grew up on Key Biscayne.
 Mr. Devaney, who has invested heavily in local real estate, recently paid $15 million for a five-bedroom home, which had replaced the adjoining house where the Secret Service once stayed. It also comes with helicopter pad.
 After the Mackles, the island had a golden age of airy island homes designed by top Miami architects, but few examples -- or architects -- survive. Wilfredo Borroto, a native of Cuba, still lives in Key Biscayne's first multiple-story home. The home, built in 1973, has a breezeway on the first floor and living space on the second and third floors. Charles Pawley, a Haitian-born, Miami-reared proponent of island architecture, recently designed a dramatic copper-roofed, wood-trimmed home that invites tropical breezes. Reinforced floor-to-ceiling glass windows don't require hurricane shutters. 
 When massive and vaguely Mediterranean homes with columns recalling ancient temples began appearing in the late 1980's, residents feared they would overwhelm not only the small lots but also the island. Key Biscayne voted to incorporate as a village with its own building codes in 1991, a year before Hurricane Andrew destroyed most of the island's vegetation. 
 Today's code encourages staggered facades and rooflines, balconies, garages with side entries and windows that don't intrude on a neighbor's privacy.
 The code includes a bonus system that allows homeowners to add up to 17 percent more living space if designs include such elements, according to William Fehr, village planner. Generous landscaping is also required -- 30 percent in native plants to encourage butterflies and birds. Shade trees earn more points than palms because they help create a tropical canopy. Planners favor island-style homes, but Mediterranean is the most popular construction.
 Who lives on Key Biscayne also influences design. The island has had more than its share of flight money, with waves of foreign residents corresponding to political and economic turmoil. This summer a local barber complained that business was down because his clientele was either voting or campaigning in Venezuela. Half of the population is Hispanic, but many residents -- including the actor Andy Garcia, who has an island-style house -- are from Miami.
 More important, the island remains family-oriented with 58 percent of the residents married and more than a third in households with children under 18. Nannies with toddlers and soccer and softball Little Leaguers populate the Village Green. The public elementary school has expanded through Grade 8 with more construction under way; the parochial school also has kindergarten to Grade 8. On-street golf carts have infant seats in back. 
 ''Key Biscayne is getting younger,'' said Robert Vernon, a 45-year-old real estate agent and member of the Village Council. His father opened the island's first business, a drugstore, in 1951. A Blockbuster video store replaced the store in the early 1990's. His father moved into a local condo, but he still lives in a Mackle with his family.


GRAPHIC: Photos: 'RECYCLING' AN ISLAND -- Richard M. Nixon's winter home, with bay views, left, was demolished, while Bebe Rebozo's former house, right, remains. Megamansions, like the one above, dwarf older homes. (Photographs by Cindy Karp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ORDINANCES (87%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); VETERANS (67%); FLOOD CONTROL (65%) Housing

COMPANY: COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (90%) Nancy Beth Jackson; Richard Milhous (1913-94) Nixon

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Key Biscayne (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



378 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Page Two: Aug. 8-14; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: For Kerry, When Scenery Changes, So Do the Jokes

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: CENTRAL POINT, Ore. 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to the old saw about all politics being local, Senator John Kerry takes a Borscht Belt approach.
 At a sweltering rally here Thursday evening in the Southwest corner of the state, Mr. Kerry observed that many in the crowd of some 10,000 people were wearing ''shades'' and exclaimed, ''You look like a band of beavers,'' Oregon's state animal. Then the Democratic presidential nominee showed off his savvy on the small-town sports rivalry between nearby North Medford and South Medford high schools. 
 ''I'm going to take a lot of tough positions here today,'' he promised, ''but I am not going to choose between the Black Tornados and the Panthers.'' In case anyone was not yet convinced that Mr. Kerry was paying attention to where he was, he held aloft a locally grown pear and exulted, ''I am smart enough to leave with some of these!''
 So it went on Mr. Kerry's cross-country tour these past two weeks. Same speech, different opening joke at each stop. 
 Thursday morning in Carson, Calif., he told the crowd at California State University, Dominguez Hills, ''If I had gone to college in L.A. five miles from a beach, in perfect weather, I never would have graduated.'' Tuesday night, in Las Vegas, he had a litany of one-liners, saying he would follow the ''winning streak'' of hometown heroes Andre Agassi and Greg Maddox and take lessons in how to run from the championship basketball team of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, whose arena he was standing in.
 ''They tell me there are 15,000 or more people here,'' Mr. Kerry said, glancing up at the crowd. ''I'm happy to hear that because I took the over on 11,000.''
 Get it? Gambling joke? Vegas? 
 Wait, there's more. ''We have to get this economy moving,'' Mr. Kerry said a bit later, ''because there is nothing worse than an unemployed flying Elvis.''
 Asked aboard his campaign plane Thursday night where he gets this material, Mr. Kerry hurried back to his cabin without answering. 
 Next morning, David Wade, Mr. Kerry's traveling press secretary, explained that these tantalizing tidbits grow out of local notes layered into the candidate's daily briefing books, which he peruses before each event. The yucks were heightened during this coast-to-coast swing, Mr. Wade suggested, because Mr. Kerry was often accompanied by his stepsons, Chris and Andre Heinz, whose impressions of politicians like Arnold Schwarzenegger and President Bush crack up Democratic crowds.
 ''When he's on a bus traveling with a couple of fulltime comedians in Chris and Andre, they have fun on that bus, they make this stuff up,'' Mr. Wade explained. ''He has a much funnier family than he has a funny staff.''
 The local crowds generally eat it up, their laughter and applause drowning out the collective groan from the traveling press corps. But the perils of going local are, well, getting it wrong.
 Mr. Kerry was taken to task in Wednesday's Las Vegas Review-Journal for mispronouncing Nevada (it's Ne-VAH-da, not Ne-VAD-uh) and its Yucca (he said YOO-kah instead of YUK-ah) Mountain. ''I've got to stop saying Ne-VAD-uh the way they say it in Massachusetts,'' he said the next day. ''Ne-VAH-da.''
 Earlier, after a day and a half in Ohio, Mr. Kerry apparently missed the crossing into Michigan, where he was booed for saying, ''I just go for Buckeye football.''
 ''That was while I was in Ohio!'' he tried to recover. ''Now, I know, I'm in the state of Michigan. You got a great big M and a powerhouse of a team.''
 Mr. Kerry's wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, made a similar goof a few weeks back, when she tried to get points in Cleveland for being from Pittsburgh, perhaps forgetting the Browns-Steelers and Indians-Pirates rivalries.
 Which brings us to Williams, Ariz., where Mr. Kerry's 15-car chartered train pulled up Monday night near the end of its five-day, five-state tour.
 ''Hellooooo, Nevada!'' Mrs. Heinz Kerry said, prompting a nudge from her husband. ''Arizona,'' he corrected.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry's campaign trip led him to the Inter-Tribal Indian Pow-Wow in Gallup, N.M. (Photo by Laura Rauch/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



379 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE SWING STATES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: Events in Iraq Prove a Distraction And a Guide for Wisconsin Voters

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
Mirna Zavala, a 53-year-old medical technician, is just the kind of voter, her thoughts still shifting and swerving, who could tip the presidential election in Wisconsin. Ask whom she favors and she instantly pours out all her uncertainties about what is happening in Iraq, doubts that she expects will last all the way to November.
 ''Honestly, I don't know what to do,'' Ms. Zavala said as she wandered near Lake Michigan clutching the hand of her young granddaughter. Ms. Zavala voted for President Bush in 2000 and says her relatives still adore him. Never far from her thoughts, though, is that her son-in-law is a soldier, and so her uncertainty keeps growing. 
 ''Now, when I look at it, I think Bush misled the people about Iraq, and I feel sad for all the families, for all these soldiers that had to die,'' she said. ''But then I don't really know what Kerry would do about it either.'' Ms. Zavala stopped, then finally said, ''I guess I can only wait and see what happens.'' 
 There lies a central complication for the campaigns as they fight for a state that gave Al Gore just an ounce more support than George W. Bush four years ago. From working-class neighborhoods in Racine in the southeast to the pine- and fern-covered hills near Lake Superior, voters speak of factories that have closed, schools short on money and health insurance beyond reach.
 But many seem focused on the United States' role in Iraq, and the issue divides the state. In June, the Badger Poll, conducted by the University of Wisconsin Survey Center for The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel and The Capital Times, found that 26 percent of those polled considered the government's handling of Iraq mostly or completely a success, while 44 percent deemed it ''only partly'' a success and 27 percent found it to be mostly or completely a failure.
 And unlike so many other political issues, where the parties can control the terms of the debate, the conflict in Iraq is ever changing, and it will likely go right on changing until Election Day, and beyond.
 ''That is what is so difficult about this whole issue for both sides: So much depends on events that haven't happened yet,'' said G. Donald Ferree Jr., associate director for public opinion research at the University of Wisconsin Survey Center. ''And each side is caught in exactly that mess.''
 The toll here, military officials say, is comparable to it in other states, and like elsewhere, the war has struck home in Wisconsin in deeply personal ways. 
 In July, Rhinelander, a small Northwoods town in a state of mostly small towns, buried Staff Sgt. Stephen Martin, an Army reservist and police officer who had patrolled the community on bicycle. In April, people here watched one suburban Milwaukee family's very public and wrenching struggle: After one sister, Michelle M. Witmer, 20, a National Guard specialist, was killed, two others in the Guard had to choose whether to return to Iraq. (They decided no.)
 More than 70 other Wisconsin residents have come home wounded, 19 have been killed and scores of other service members have learned that their tours were being extended.
 Gov. James E. Doyle, a Democrat and the chairman of John Kerry's campaign here, says he senses faith in the Bush administration wavering. ''We want to believe that the young men and women who have died, our Wisconsin sons and daughters, have done it for a worthy purpose,'' Governor Doyle said, ''so I think generally people in Wisconsin want to give the president the benefit of the doubt in a question of war. 
 ''But I think there are really very significant doubts that are creeping into that now, questions that people really have on whether this is worth it, and, again, it's more of sort of this vision, of what was his purpose, has he made us safer by going to Iraq, has it been worth the terrible loss that we've suffered.''
 Rick Graber, the state Republican chairman, counters that he hears praise for President Bush on questions of security and war. ''Most people in this state believe it's a safer world without Saddam Hussein and they believe President Bush has handled it well,'' Mr. Graber said.
 Four years ago, Mr. Gore won the state by so few votes that everyone in politics here recites it to the final digit: 5,708.
 That miniscule split -- two-tenths of one percentage point -- has ensured the campaigns' attention as both sides vie for the state's 10 electoral votes. Political advertisements already fill television broadcasts, tens of thousands of volunteers from each campaign are busy making phone calls, and both candidates, with their offices and paid staffs here, keep coming back. 
 Most of the time, Democrats do well in the state's two largest cities, Madison and Milwaukee, where liberals are numerous and some of the state's largest concentrations of Hispanic and black voters live. Republicans tend to do well in Milwaukee's wealthy suburbs.
 Both sides are turning to the small towns that run down the western edge of the state, along the banks of the Mississippi, where Mr. Gore fared well in many cases in 2000 but where Republicans now hope to win over rural voters. And both sides are tangling in the Fox River Valley -- a fast-growing, eastern swath of the state that includes Green Bay and Appleton -- and in places like Racine County, one of the counties that, like the state as a whole, split nearly in half four years ago.
 In a way, though, the fight is everywhere. As political operatives tell it, a single reversed vote in each ward in 2000 would have changed the outcome here. 
 So on a morning in downtown Milwaukee, young interns from the League of Conservation Voters -- one of several independent groups directing attention on Wisconsin voters on behalf of causes and candidates -- led cheers for Mr. Kerry on a street corner. The volunteers then marched door to door to chat about what they call President Bush's grade of ''F'' on the environment in a state known for its lakes, streams and farmland; they intend, they say, to visit 150,000 Wisconsin homes three times before Election Day. 
 Meanwhile, one Milwaukee woman spends at least 40 hours a week volunteering for the Bush campaign, she says. The official Bush campaign Web site features the woman, Kari Rae (she does not use her full name to avoid unwanted phone calls) as its ''No. 1'' volunteer nationally for having, it says, recruited 227 volunteers, signed up 5 friends, contacted 294,488 people to register to vote, called 89 radio talk shows and written 21,288 letters to news editors. 
 ''I am committed to this president,'' Kari Rae, 52, said.
 No Republican presidential candidate has won the state since Ronald Reagan did two decades ago, but that may mean less than it would somewhere else. Partisan politics are complicated here. Since the days of Robert M. LaFollette, this state's Republican governor and leader of the progressive movement a century ago, Wisconsin voters have defined themselves by independence: they happily split tickets and rarely cling to a particular political party for the sake of loyalty.
 Although both of its United States senators are Democrats, the state's House members are evenly split between the parties, and Republicans dominate both bodies in the Legislature in Madison. For now, most statewide polls show Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry in a near tie. 
 In addition to the situation in Iraq, a critical question for both parties is voters' perception of the economy. From January 2001 to January 2004, Wisconsin, a state with a strong manufacturing base, lost 79,000 factory jobs. Then came surprising news this June from state labor statisticians: Unlike some of the other manufacturing-based battleground states, Wisconsin had begun to see a surge in new jobs. 
 Republicans have pointed to the 20,900 new manufacturing jobs since January as evidence of a crucial and optimistic trend for November.
 ''The economy is doing better,'' said Tony V. Nestoras, 40, a computer programmer from a Milwaukee suburb. ''And Bush deserves at least some of the credit for that. Who knows where we'd be if Gore had won.'' 
 Some workers, though, question the quality of the new jobs. ''We're talking low-wage jobs and no benefits,'' said Susan Conhartoski, 32, of South Milwaukee, whose husband, John, was out of work for a year.
 David E. Azarian, the owner of the Main Street General Store in Racine for 25 years, said his sales had been down for three years running. ''Say what you will, but I say the economy is doing terribly,'' Mr. Azarian, 60, said.
 Democrats hope the choice of Senator John Edwards as Mr. Kerry's running mate will help the ticket. In the primary election here, Senator Edwards campaigned hard and had a strong second-place showing. ''Edwards helps,'' said Jon Di Piazza, an undecided voter from Middleton. ''He came off well here.''
 Ralph Nader, meanwhile, remains a question mark for Democrats. In 2000, Mr. Nader won 94,000 votes, about 4 percent of the vote, and he should have no trouble getting on the ballot as an independent: only 2,000 signatures are required by a Sept. 7 deadline.
 Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Democrat considered by some to be one in Wisconsin's long line of political mavericks, also faces a contest this fall, potentially complicating the presidential race. Four Republicans are vying for the chance to oppose Mr. Feingold, and some Republicans say they hope to make an issue of his lone vote in the Senate against the broad antiterrorism legislation known as the USA Patriot Act. 
 Still, the voters' thoughts keep coming back to Iraq. In Appleton, beside the Fox River on the state's eastern side, opinions on the war were starkly divided.
 Eating in a cafe on the downtown thoroughfare, Angie Schiesl, a hairdresser, said she was unfazed by findings that intelligence information used to justify the war against Iraq was flawed.
 ''Something had to be done with Saddam Hussein,'' said Ms. Schiesl, 41, who said she voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 and would do so again. ''The weapons of mass destruction don't matter.''
 A block away, Brad Lindert, 21, said the war was probably the single most important election issue for him.
 ''I still cannot figure out what we are doing there,'' said Mr. Lindert, who said he would vote for Mr. Kerry. ''I don't know what Kerry will do about it. I don't know what anyone can do about it. But at this point, I don't like what Bush is doing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Say what you will, but I say the economy is doing terribly,'' says David E. Azarian, who owns a Racine store. (Photo by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)
The presidential leanings of Mirna Zavala, 53, of Milwaukee change with the news from Iraq. ''Honestly, I don't know what to do,'' she says. (Photo by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)(pg. 26)Chart: ''A Narrowly Divided State''In Wisconsin, a state the Democrats narrowly won in 2000, many voters seem focused squarely on the war in Iraq.HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares are sized by the total number of votes cast and shaded by the winning candidate.MARGIN OF VICTORYIn percentage points for past presidential elections.2000DEMOCRATIC: 0.2 POINT WIN1996DEMOCRATIC: 101992DEMOCRATIC: 41988DEMOCRATIC: 41984REPUBLICAN: 91980REPUBLICAN: 5WISCONSIN'S ECONOMYGraph tracks the change in real household income versus year earlier from 1999-2003.Graph tracks the change in median home price versus year earlier from 1999-2003.Graph tracks the unemployment rate for Wisconsin and the U.S. from 1999-2003.Graph tracks the percentage without health insurance for Wisconsin and the U.S. from 1997-2002.ELECTED OFFICIALSREPUBLICANGOVERNOR: --SENATORS: --REPRESENTATIVES: 4DEMOCRATGOVERNOR: 1SENATORS: 2REPRESENTATIVES: 4DEMOGRAPHICSWIS.WHITE: 87%BLACK: 6%HISPANIC: 4%ASIAN: 2%OTHER: 2%65 OR OLDER: 13%MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $46,351U.S.WHITE: 69BLACK: 12HISPANIC: 13ASIAN: 4OTHER: 365 OR OLDER: 12MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 43,052(Sources by Dave Leips Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
Census Bureau)
 (Chart by Matthew Ericson/The New York Times)(pg. 26)Map of Wisconsin highlighting how each county voted and the margin of victory for the winning candidate. (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ARMIES (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004



380 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: The rarefied world of theater may soon get a taste of promotional tie-ins, ballpark-style.

BYLINE: By Glenn Rifkin

 BODY:
THEATER has had little connection to the world of sports other than the occasional sports-related musical like ''Damn Yankees'' or play like ''Take Me Out.'' Now, a group of nonprofit regional theaters has hired a sports marketing agency to attract corporate sponsors.
 Their goal is to aim at a fan base as devoted as any found in Madison Square Garden or Fenway Park, and to bolster sagging revenue and offset cutbacks in government funding.
 The initiative is for the National Corporate Theater Fund, a nonprofit association of 11 regional theaters including the Long Wharf in New Haven, Conn.; the Goodman in Chicago; the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass.; and the Old Globe in San Diego. The association has hired Seven 2 Sports Marketing in Andover, Mass., an agency led by Stuart Layne, for the new nationwide corporate marketing effort. 
 Seven 2 Sports will seek to identify and cultivate sponsorship opportunities that will help corporations reach the audience buying theater tickets, just as marketers like Coca-Cola, Ford Motor and Nike develop relationships with professional sports teams. 
 Theatergoers are considered affluent, educated and largely untapped by marketers, and the 11 theaters collectively draw more than 3 million people a year. Each averages more than 25,000 season subscribers -- more than the number of season-ticket holders for most professional sports franchises.
 ''Theater marketing is the next significant direct-marketing medium,'' said Mr. Layne, who spent nine years as executive vice president for marketing for the Boston Celtics before starting his agency in 2002.
 ''For a lot of companies spending billions of dollars in sports, this will become an extension of or complement to the sports fans they are reaching,'' he added. 
 Theater lovers may shudder at the thought of corporate logos on costumes, or consumer products strategically placed as props. There have already been outcries over the limited forays into marketing being made by Broadway theaters, particularly the appending of sponsors' brands onto the names of theaters like the American Airlines Theater (for the Roundabout Theater Company), the Cadillac Winter Garden and the Ford Center for the Performing Arts.
 That is why Bruce Whitacre, executive director of National Corporate Theater Fund, stressed that the line between art and commerce would remain sacrosanct and the new advertising and marketing efforts would not intrude on the creative side of productions.
 ''We're talking about making things work in context,'' Mr. Whitacre said. ''There are many other opportunities in theaters -- before, during intermissions and after shows -- in which corporations can exhibit products and services.''
 Those on the artistic side of the aisle have expressed cautious optimism about the concept. The actor Hal Holbrook, who is the honorary chairman of the fund, said the organization had ''a very serious responsibility to help maintain the high level of artistic integrity that these wonderful theaters have achieved over the last 50 years.''
 Mr. Layne said he had been working with the North Shore Music Theater, a regional, nonprofit theater in Beverly, Mass., for the last 18 months, creating sports-like sponsorships with marketers like the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler, Comcast and the Pepsi-Cola unit of PepsiCo.
 Chrysler has displayed the new Pacifica station wagon outside the theater and invited patrons to visit local showrooms. Pepsi negotiated exclusive pouring rights at the theater with attendant advertising and promotional elements. 
 For the association's theaters, Mr. Layne said, he foresees similar agreements. One concept, already in discussion, is to have a big marketer of consumer electronics display flat-screen plasma television sets in theater lobbies. 
 While theatergoers look at the displays, the screens might be showing scenes from plays or interviews with the actors. 
 Then, if given access to the database of season subscribers, the marketer would be able to follow up with personalized invitations to the theatergoers to visit local stores where they might receive special deals on sets. 
 The association already has a sponsorship agreement with Time magazine to put together promotional packages with corporate sponsors that will be featured in ad pages in Time, Mr. Layne said. 
 John Harvey, director of multimedia marketing at Time, part of Time Warner, said he was talking ''with a variety of advertisers.''
 ''It's an opportunity for luxury advertisers in the automotive, consumer electronics, spirits and fashion industries to attract an upscale, hard-to-reach audience that is just as rabid about theater as the most fanatical sports fans are about sports,'' he added.
 Given the economic climate for nonprofit theaters, the chance to cultivate a new income stream could be too good to ignore despite qualms about commercialization.
 The search for additional money has become more intense recently, Mr. Whitacre said, as nearly 60 percent of nonprofit theaters around the country ran at deficits last year -- more than in any of the previous five years. 
 Dean Gladden, managing director for the Cleveland Playhouse, one of the association's 11 theaters, said that corporate contributions to the playhouse declined to $300,000 last year from $450,000 three years ago. 
 ''We did a capital campaign in 1983 and of the corporations that gave to that campaign, only 30 percent are still in Cleveland,'' Mr. Gladden said. ''Companies have merged or left town, and this has happened all over the country.'' 
 Although the partnership is still seeking its first corporate sponsorship, Debi Feinman, senior partner and executive group director at Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide in New York, said she expected there would be strong interest.
 ''We're always looking for new ways to tap into audiences,'' Ms. Feinman said. ''There's so much clutter out there and the theater experience is an untapped opportunity.''
 But Ms. Feinman cautioned that corporate sponsors must be careful how they address theatergoers and place ads.
 ''You don't want to offend anyone,'' Ms. Feinman said. ''You have to be elegant about it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SPORTS FANS (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%) Theater; Advertising and Marketing; Athletics and Sports; Theater

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (69%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: National Corporate Theater Fund; Seven 2 Sports Marketing

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (69%); F (NYSE) (69%); KO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%)

PERSON: Glenn Rifkin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



381 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Take Technology To the Masses

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Raj Reddy was fed up debating the problem of the digital divide between the rich and the poor and decided to do something about it.
 Mr. Reddy, a pioneering researcher in artificial intelligence and a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, plans to unveil at the end of this year his new project, called the PCtvt, a $250 wirelessly networked personal computer intended for the four billion people around the world who live on less than $2,000 a year.
 He says his device can find a market in developing countries, particularly those with large populations of people who cannot read, because it can be controlled by a simple TV remote control and can function as a television, telephone and videophone. 
 Mr. Reddy is hoping his project -- with backing from Microsoft and TriGem, the Korean computer maker, and in partnership with the Indian Institute of Science, the Indian Institute of Information Technology and researchers at the University of California, Berkeley -- can prove that it is possible to bring information technology to impoverished communities without depending on philanthropy. 
 Because his low-cost computer doubles as a TV and a DVD player, Mr. Reddy believes that he will be able to use it as a vehicle to take computing and communications to populations that until now have been excluded from the digital world.
 What separates Mr. Reddy's approach from other efforts is his belief that even the world's poorest communities can become a profitable market for computers. 
 ''I kept asking myself, 'what would the device have to do for someone on the other side of the digital divide to be desirable?''' Mr. Reddy said. The answer, he decided, was a simple device that would offer entertainment, making it something that even the world's poorest citizens might be willing to pay a sizable share -- perhaps more than 5 percent -- of their annual income to own.
 ''Entertainment is the killer app, and that will smuggle something that is a lot more sophisticated into the home,'' said Tom Kalil, special assistant to the chancellor for science and technology at Berkeley. 
 Earlier this year Mr. Reddy persuaded TriGem, South Korea's third-largest PC maker, to supply prototypes of a fully equipped computer and Microsoft to support the project with an inexpensive, stripped down version of its Windows operating system. 
 This November Mr. Reddy hopes to begin installing the first 100 prototypes of the PCtvt in India and possibly several other countries. The project will work in partnership with University of California researchers who are attempting to develop high-speed wireless digital networks for rural communities. 
 The philosophy behind the PCtvt grew from ideas explored in the early 1980's by Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, the founder of the World Center for Computing and Human Resources, which is based in Paris. The center was built on the idea that developing countries could use biological and microelectronic technologies to leapfrog the industrial stage of economic development.
 Mr. Reddy was among dozens of leading international researchers working on design projects at the center, including Alan Kay, Nicholas Negroponte and Seymour Papert. Mr. Kay was the creator of the Xerox Alto, an early PC. Mr. Negroponte had designed a pioneering videodisc system at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Mr. Papert was the inventor of the LOGO programming language.
 The French center established a pilot project in Senegal that experimented with adapting the LOGO language for a Third World population. But that project failed years later because of politics and because the computers involved were too expensive.
 ''We needed three decades,'' Mr. Reddy said, for those technologies to help developing nations. He noted that in the early 1980's, computing was more focused on data processing, while today the focus is communications.
 Coincidentally, he said that designing a system largely for people who cannot read will require more wireless network bandwidth than is currently required for most modern computer networks since communication will rely more heavily on audio and video transmissions than on text messages. 
 With a small team of students and faculty here at Carnegie Mellon University's West Coast campus, Mr. Reddy has built a simple control screen that allows the PCtvt to be used for audio and video conferencing, electronic mail and viewing local newspapers on the Web through a TV remote control. The designers have intentionally limited the computer's functions because they are struggling to simplify what the users see and experience. 
 One challenge Mr. Reddy faced was in persuading Microsoft to offer a version of its Windows software for the project for far less than its commercial price. But Mr. Reddy said he eventually won the support of Craig Mundie, the chief technical officer and a senior strategist at Microsoft. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Reddy's team is also working with social scientists to determine the effect that access to this technology has on communities. ''If we can do these experiments'' and show that people living in poverty are a market for computers, Mr. Reddy said, ''we will have proved something.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Raj Reddy, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, is developing a wireless computer that can be run by a simple TV remote control. (Photo by Dan Krauss for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (76%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (76%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%) Computers and the Internet; Television; Telephones and Telecommunications; Dvd (Digital Versatile Disk); Videophones; Third World and Developing Countries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Wireless Communications

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%) Trigem (Korean Co); Microsoft Corp

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: Rob Reddy; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



382 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Nightmare at Sea Shatters Dreams in a Dominican Town

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: VILLA ALTAGRACIA, Dominican Republic, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
In the district of Sagrario Diaz, just living day to day can be a struggle. Most of the homes here are made of lashed-together pieces of tin. The best houses are built with cinderblocks, made possible by money sent by Dominicans living in the United States.
 That poverty, and the lure of the money to help ease it, drives thousands of Dominicans a year to set out on rickety boats, or yolas, for Puerto Rico and then for New York or other American cities. Esteban Disla Frias, a 32-year-old lottery ticket salesman from this neighborhood in Villa Altagracia, was one of them. He set out more than two weeks ago on a boat with about 80 others, trying to make life better for his family here, including his pregnant wife. 
 Instead, his fate has left them devastated, and the harrowing and sometimes contradictory accounts from the survivors of the ordeal that killed Mr. Frias and about 50 others over the course of 13 days stranded at sea have gripped this country. 
 ''We don't even have a body to mourn, since he was thrown to be consumed by the sharks,'' said his father, Miguel Disla Vicent, a 63-year-old retired sugar cane cutter. ''The savagery that took place on that boat is too great to imagine.'' 
 Although much of what happened between when the boat set out, on July 29, and when it washed up on this country's northern coast 13 days later is still shrouded in confusion, the way the trip started is clear.
 The 80 or so passengers paid about $450 each, a full year's wages for most Dominicans, to pack into a boat 40 feet long by 10 feet. It is an increasingly common scenario: About 7,000 Dominicans have been apprehended in the Mona Passage, the 80-mile stretch of water between this nation and Puerto Rico, since October. That is more than double the number a year earlier, and it does not include the thousands who successfully make the trip, nor the hundreds thought to have died in the past year when their voyages went awry in the shark-infested waters. 
 The boat set out from the coastal village of El Limon on a voyage expected to take no longer than three days. Instead, when the craft's motor gave out after two days and the captain hopped aboard a passing boat, presumably in search of assistance, panic set in, survivors said. 
 One survivor, Luis Mirelis Aguero, said the meager supply of food on the boat, some canned sardines and bags of peanuts, quickly ran out. After that, two lactating women dripped their breast milk into a bottle for the passengers to drink, he said. One of those women later died, though the cause was unclear. 
 ''I was fortunate because I had a tube of Colgate to eat,'' Mr. Aguero, a 24-year-old construction worker, said in an interview on Saturday in the living room of his home in Arenoso. He appeared dangerously emaciated, and he said he had been skinny before the trip started. ''The strongest ones, or the ones that looked the strongest, were the first to die,'' he said.
 He told of one woman who died after a miscarriage and whose body was dumped into the sea because passengers were afraid her blood would draw sharks to the boat.
 Other accounts of what took place aboard the boat differ, although the survivors generally deny the reports of cannibalism that appeared in newspapers in Santo Domingo. Some survivors told news agencies that one woman was thrown to the sharks after refusing to share her breast milk. 
 Contradictory accounts of struggles on the boat have raised suspicions among the families of the passengers, and have even set whole towns against one another. Residents of Villa Altagracia, for instance, were outraged after finding that 17 of the 18 passengers from the town were among the dead, even though many people from a small city to the north, Villa Riva, survived. The families of the dead from Villa Altagracia are convinced that the passengers from Villa Riva killed their relatives in order to hoard the dwindling food and water on the boat. 
 Their theories are based on the account from the sole survivor from the town. That man said he had lied when asked on the boat where he was from, claiming he was from an area near Villa Riva. He has since fled Villa Altagracia out of fear that he might be hunted down for disclosing what happened, neighbors gathered near his home said Saturday. 
 Fear of retribution was also present at a private clinic in San Francisco de Macoris, a city near Villa Riva, where another survivor, Kelvin Rodriguez, was recuperating from severe dehydration. His mother, Guadalupe Rodriguez, kept the door to her son's room locked out of concern that relatives of those who died, or worse yet, the boat's clandestine owners, might try to silence him. 
 ''I can't thank God enough for saving my son, but I'm afraid of the people from Altagracia,'' said Ms. Rodriguez, 52, who lives in Villa Riva. 
 As survivors and their families tried to make sense of what happened, government officials sought to show over the weekend that they were taking steps to prevent such voyages. The navy on Saturday announced the arrests of three of its officers and three sailors, accusing them of accepting bribes to allow the boat to sail to Puerto Rico. [The navy also said Sunday that it had apprehended 91 people, including 10 women, who were seeking to sail to Puerto Rico from the town of La Caleta.]
 The wave of emigration is the most vivid legacy of the economic crisis that awaits Leonel Fernandez, a lawyer and university professor who assumes the presidency from Hipolito Mejia on Monday. In just a year, the country's economy has gone from being one of the fastest-growing in Latin America to one of the most vulnerable, with inflation rising above 40 percent and acute shortages of electricity and gasoline. 
 Guillermo Pina-Contreras, a Dominican writer and a former ambassador to France, said the allure of a new life away from the ailing economy in the country had been too strong to resist lately. ''The frontier between death and adventure is quite fragile,'' Mr. Pina-Contreras wrote in an essay in the newspaper El Caribe. ''The hope of attaining something better prevents the migrants from thinking of failure.'' 
 For those who survived the boat trip, piecing together their lives seems to be a priority after spending a small fortune on a voyage that delivered them hungry and battered by the elements not far from where they set out.
 At one survivor's home in Villa Riva, a family friend said she was almost as afraid now of the possibility of reprisals as she had been when she awaited news while the boat was lost at sea. 
 ''We don't know what happened on that boat; I don't know if the survivors even know exactly what happened,'' she said, giving only her first name, Adalgisa, as a blackout shut off electricity in the home. ''We don't have lights here, and we just want to feel safe. The darkness is so frightening.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dominicans with the boat that set out for Puerto Rico on July 29 with about 80 migrants on board. By the time the boat washed up on the northern Dominican coast 13 days later, about 50 of the migrants had died. (Photo by Orlando Barria/European Pressphoto Agency)
 Ana Maria Cabral at an altar to her husband, Esteban Disla Frias, in Villa Altagracia. Mr. Frias died while trying to travel to Puerto Rico by boat. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)Map of Dominican Republic highlighting Villa Altagracia: Seventeen of 18 passengers from Villa Altagracia died while at sea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (79%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); SEAFOOD (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); BREASTFEEDING (60%); LOTTERIES (55%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (54%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) Puerto Rico; Dominican Republic

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



383 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Albany Puts Off Fixing an Economic Development Plan That All Agree Needs Repairs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
This was the year, virtually everyone here agreed, that something would have to be done about one of New York's main economic development programs, the Empire Zones, those tax-free areas devised to help create jobs. 
 Assembly Democrats complained that the program had strayed from its antipoverty roots to become a corporate giveaway. Audits by State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi charged that the program gave breaks to companies that wound up shedding jobs. Senate Republicans wanted to create more tax-free zones. And Gov. George E. Pataki put forward a proposal to alter the program to reduce what he called ''the potential for abuse.'' 
 But even faced with a deadline -- the state's Empire Zone law had been scheduled to expire at the end of July -- New York's leaders were unable to come up with a compromise to improve the program this legislative session. So they decided instead to add Empire Zones to the growing list of unfinished business in Albany. 
 A bill passed on Wednesday night as part of the state budget extends the current system, flaws and all, through the end of March.
 ''The program badly needs reform, and every day that goes by without it is an opportunity we can't afford,'' Mr. Hevesi said in a statement earlier on Wednesday, calling the zones a ''vital mechanism'' for job growth and economic development, particularly upstate.
 The overhaul of the Empire Zone program fell victim to a familiar Albany syndrome: because the interested parties all had significant policy differences, they agreed that no compromises could be reached until they made deals on other state issues, starting with the state budget. But by the time they got around to passing the budget last week, they ran out of time to negotiate on most other issues.
 The one piece of good news, several officials said, is that the program is being extended only temporarily, so it can be overhauled later.
 ''They know they got problems, but they can't deal with it,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, an analyst at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, who has criticized the Empire Zone program for its scattershot approach to tax relief. ''This is one of the things that unites right and left: nobody likes this program.''
 The program cost the state $300 million in lost tax revenues and led to the creation of only 4,000 jobs in 2002, the latest year for which figures were available. 
 The program was started in the 1980's as a way to attract businesses to distressed urban and rural areas by offering limited tax breaks in a few targeted areas. Since then, it has been transformed, growing to include 72 Empire Zones, in suburbs as well as cities, all virtually tax-free. 
 Businesses in the zones can now qualify for sales tax exemptions, state reimbursements of local property taxes and business taxes, and savings on electricity and gas.
 Some of the zones are not even in zones anymore: the Pataki administration has moved away from the notion that each zone must be in a distinct, contiguous geographic area and now doles out tax benefits to businesses scattered across wide areas where some land parcels qualify for the zone benefits and others do not. 
 Some businesses have gotten the state to give them Empire Zone tax benefits even though they were moving to areas outside the existing zones, leading critics to charge that the program no longer brought businesses to zones, but zones to businesses.
 Audits conducted by Mr. Hevesi over the past year found that there was poor oversight of the program and that some businesses had gotten tax breaks even though they had cut jobs. 
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who led investigations into the program and held hearings on it, said that the zones have become pork, that they have been used in some areas to reward political contributors and that they no longer help blighted urban and rural areas but rather encourage urban sprawl.
 ''They are not creating jobs,'' he charged on Wednesday. ''They are giving the benefits to insiders who do not create jobs.''
 But Mr. Brodsky said it was still worth extending the program, to avoid penalizing the worthy businesses in it.
 Governor Pataki, a Republican, proposed a number of changes to the program last year, including shortening the length of time the benefits are given and revising its formulas to make sure that benefits are tied to job creation. But the Democrat-dominated Assembly complained that his proposals did not go far enough.
 On Wednesday, the Pataki administration blamed the Assembly for the failure to overhaul the program. ''We will continue to urge them to work with us and the Senate to reform and improve the Empire Zones program,'' said Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for the governor.
 Charles A. Gargano, the chairman and chief executive officer of the Empire State Development Corporation, which oversees the program, said in June in a letter to Assemblyman Brodsky, ''While there has been time for public hearings, letters, press releases and countless information requests, there has been almost no time for the one thing that can make a difference: serious negotiations.''
 Mr. McMahon, of the Manhattan Institute, called the overhaul of the Empire Zone program ''another casualty of this year's especially bizarre budget process.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); CONSERVATISM (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%) Labor; Taxation; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



384 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Arafat Survives Latest Challenge to His Political Power

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: GAZA, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
With Palestinian politics in an extraordinary ferment, Yasir Arafat has survived the latest challenge to his authority from a younger generation of frustrated politicians, outmaneuvering an American favorite, Muhammad Dahlan, 42, a former security chief. 
 Mr. Arafat, the Palestinian president, isolated in his headquarters on the West Bank, has been confronted with scathing criticism of the competence of his administration from Palestinians themselves, including personal criticism of an unprecedented kind and degree.
 The ferment grows out of Israel's intention to withdraw unilaterally from the Gaza Strip in a year. The potential power vacuum has emboldened Mr. Dahlan and other Gaza-based Palestinians, including major figures in the Palestinian legislature, to a form of power struggle with Mr. Arafat, whom they regard as a paramount figurehead but uninterested in democracy or in efficient administration. 
 At the same time, Hamas, no friend to Mr. Arafat, is weighing its own opportunities in Gaza. 
 Mr. Dahlan, a member of Mr. Arafat's Fatah movement who has had past disputes with him, has accused Mr. Arafat of corruption, incompetence, selfishness and inattention as the Palestinian intifada fades, and Palestinian hopes wither.
 But the challenge has not gone especially well, certainly not here in teeming Gaza, where Israeli troops have just concluded another long incursion, destroying factories, some 20 houses and hundreds of acres of orchards in Beit Hanun. The troops were responding to Palestinian militants firing short-range Qassam rockets at Israel, but the incursion has allowed Mr. Arafat and his allies to dismiss Mr. Dahlan's critique as selfish, ill-timed, even unpatriotic.
 Mr. Dahlan himself is regarded by many Palestinians here as corrupt, which he denies. Some have suggested that he serves the interests of Israel, the United States and Egypt, rather than caring about people under occupation.
 The population reveres Mr. Arafat, 75 and kept isolated by the Israelis in Ramallah, as the founder and symbol of an embryonic Palestinian nation. After a period of uncertainty and orchestrated indiscipline in Gaza that began last month, including the seizing of the police chief and some French aid workers, and the off-again resignation of the Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed Qurei, Mr. Dahlan effectively sued for peace, asking for a face-saving meeting with Mr. Arafat.
 But Mr. Arafat, an experienced and talented politician, after having initially agreed to the meeting, is now delaying, Palestinian officials say. He suggested that Mr. Dahlan simply be handed a cabinet portfolio.
 ''Arafat has outmaneuvered Dahlan and he knows it,'' said Khaled Yazji, a Dahlan friend. ''But if he accepts a post from Arafat he will lose completely, because everyone will think his criticism was to gain a job.''
 But Mr. Dahlan may yet take a new portfolio in Mr. Qurei's office if he can also bring along allies like his successor in Gaza, Rashid Abu Shak.
 The Palestinian Legislative Council itself has been trying to capture the moment. A committee of five legislators, including Mr. Arafat's former spokesman, Marwan Kanafani, and Nabil Amr, who was shot by unknown gunmen during the chaos, have produced a bluntly worded report that blames the Palestinian leadership, and Mr. Arafat by implication, for failing to make decisions.
 ''The main reason for the failure of the Palestinian security forces and their lack of action in restoring law and order is the total lack of a clear political decision and no definition of their roles, either for the long term or the short,'' the report says. It calls for Mr. Arafat and Mr. Qurei to define in law the roles of the various and overlapping Palestinian security forces and to streamline them.
 The report also urges Mr. Arafat to order the end to ''all the dangerous activity taking place in the Gaza Strip by some of the commanders and men of the armed security forces,'' including a halt to the firing of Qassam rockets from Gaza into Israel, which caused the Israeli incursion. It is unclear whether Mr. Arafat could control the militants of Hamas, who are popular in Gaza and are committed to Israel's destruction. But it has also been a long time since he has tried.
 In an interview, Mr. Kanafani said the report also called for the resignation of the government and fresh elections -- the first and last were in 1996, with a scheduled 1999 vote put off because, the Palestinians said, of the occupation. The challenge from Mr. Dahlan ''is not really a move for reform but a very simple conflict between two security forces,'' Mr. Kanafani said. ''Reform must be through elections and laws, and not through guns and accusations. But democracy is not giving the people the right to vote one time only.''
 Ziad Abu Amr, 44, another reform legislator, warned that Mr. Arafat needed to be wary of the temptation to sit tight and ignore the cries for reform. ''Part of these internal struggles were exploratory,'' Mr. Amr said. ''But they result from the stagnation of the last 10 years -- no rule of law, no transparency, no change, no reform, no elections, no peace. The disorder is a symptom of the malaise in the entire Palestinian system.''
 Salah Abdel Shafi, 42, an economist who runs a community mental health program, thinks Mr. Arafat has been weakened, with corruption, criminality, administrative disorder and the conduct of the intifada now firmly on the table. ''What's happened in the last few weeks has been important, even very important,'' he said. ''Arafat is no longer the sacred cow in the Palestinian community. He has been criticized personally, and not just his ministers.''
 It was shocking enough when Terje Larsen, the longtime United Nations special envoy, criticized Mr. Arafat by name last month in a report to the Security Council, or when King Abdullah of Jordan suggested that Mr. Arafat ''needs to have a long look in the mirror to be able to see whether his position is helping the Palestinian cause or not.'' It was quite another when such open, intense criticism came from inside Mr. Arafat's Fatah movement.
 Still, Mr. Arafat must not be underestimated, and few Palestinians want to pull him down. ''You can't bypass an historical figure like Arafat,'' Mr. Shafi said. ''The minute you touch the holy Arafat you're burned. But his margin of maneuver is narrowing. Dahlan knows there is no coup d'etat. It's a process. The emergence of a new leadership will be gradual.''
 Hamas calls for unity against Israel and professes support for Mr. Arafat as a unifying figure. 
 Chaos among Palestinians ''weakens pressure on the international community to press for peace, it gives a chance for Israeli aggression to continue and diverts attention from resistance to the internal conflict,'' said a Hamas spokesman, Sami Abu Zuhry.
 Hamas thinks that ''external hands'' are behind the Dahlan challenge, which ''serves the Israeli agenda'' of divide and rule, he said. ''Hamas supports Arafat in confronting such external pressure.''
 Pressed, he said: ''It's not like we're with Arafat. We are with the reform, but the reform must have a Palestinian, not a personal vision, and all Palestinian factions must participate, including Hamas.''
 But Hamas is trying to take advantage of the changing situation in Gaza. It suggests a ''unified popular leadership,'' including Hamas, before any new elections. That is not likely to fool Mr. Arafat. Nor does he want to let Israel isolate Gaza further from the West Bank, which would further weaken the Palestinian Authority; already, Palestinian security in each territory is controlled by separate organizations.
 Egypt, as a quiet American partner, does not want Hamas running the Gaza Strip, and it is trying to find a Palestinian consensus on what will happen if the Israelis do pull out of Gaza. Cairo wants to help Mr. Arafat control Gaza and Hamas without being seen as dictating to the Palestinians, an Egyptian diplomat here said, which means reforming the rival security forces. 
 ''We know in the end that Arafat is the only one who has the credibility to sign any agreement'' between the Palestinians and Israel, he said. ''If you want to put him outside the game, you end up with nothing.'' 
 Mr. Arafat has mismanaged the intifada and the peace effort, said a Palestinian who asked to be described only as ''close to the security services.'' Not long ago, he said, the Palestinians were negotiating for a state. ''Now we're negotiating about checkpoints.'' 
 In the last 15 years, while Fatah has had the same leaders, he said, the Soviet Union has collapsed, there have been two Iraq wars, the Balkan wars and Sept. 11.
 ''And we have the same people,'' he said. ''Actually we are a people without leadership. Just now, our problem isn't Israel. The date of the Israeli withdrawal is coming closer, and we're losing time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Unemployed men broke windows during a march past a Palestinian Authority building in Gaza City in June. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); HAMAS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AL FATAH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); ARMED FORCES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Palestinians; United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%) Palestinian Authority

PERSON: Steven Erlanger; Yasir Arafat; Muhammad Dahlan

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



385 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: The Blood and Gore That Gave Birth to the F.B.I.

BYLINE: By EDWARD P. LAZARUS. 
Edward P. Lazarus, a lawyer, is a former federal prosecutor in Los Angeles.

 BODY:

PUBLIC ENEMIES
America's Greatest Crime Wave and the Birth of the F.B.I., 1933-34
By Bryan Burrough
Illustrated. 592 pages. The Penguin Press. $29.95.
 Before 9/11 the Federal Bureau of Investigation used to give tours of its Washington headquarters during which visitors could pose for a photograph holding a Thompson submachine gun, the weapon of choice for 1930's-era gangsters. Whether the visitor chose to imitate John Dillinger or one of the early ''G-men'' who tracked down Dillinger and other famous Depression-era ''yeggs,'' the photo-op reflected a longstanding national love affair with the protagonists, good and bad, of America's first nationwide ''War on Crime.''
 In ''Public Enemies'' Bryan Burrough, the journalist grandson of an Arkansas lawman, sets out to debunk the myth. Shootout by shootout, he reveals that there was little romantic about either the bank-robbing and kidnapping outlaws who dripped blood trails up and down middle America in 1933 and 1934 or the often bumbling F.B.I. agents who pursued them. 
 The main narrative thread of ''Public Enemies'' ties together the far-flung exploits of Dillinger, Machine Gun Kelly, Pretty Boy Floyd, the Barker-Karpis gang, Baby Face Nelson, and Bonnie and Clyde Barrow. In the telling Mr. Burrough displays a genius for historical reconstruction and an attention to detail so vivid that the reader can almost smell Bonnie and Clyde, neither of whom showed much inclination to bathe during their months sleeping in cars or open fields when they were on the run. 
 By all appearances Mr. Burrough rummaged through every available archive and retraced every lead to recreate the increasingly desperate and violent cat-and-mouse game between the crooks and the cops. He has the ''who said what while wearing which color coat on what street corner as they stepped into which model car'' down to a tee -- even to the point of noting why he chose one version of disputed events (like the circumstances of Pretty Boy Floyd's death) over another.
 The result is fascinating but also a bit numbing. At some point one well-told stickup and getaway begins to run into another. Even the image of Dillinger -- all cool confidence, gracefully vaulting over a teller station to clean out a bank safe -- loses its charm on the third or fourth iteration. 
 But the cumulative portrait of this world of thieves, gamblers, boozers, whores and crooked cops is still impressive. From the speakeasies, where villains and their molls caroused and plotted, to the dust-choked country roads by which they escaped the law, Mr. Burrough captures the quotidian corruption of post-Prohibition urban life as well as the hope-stripped terrain of a nation caught in economic crisis. 
 The gangsters themselves turn out to be a motley crew, nothing like the soft-edged sympathetic antiheroes Hollywood has bequeathed us. Despite his cherubic nickname, Baby Face Nelson was a snarling, stone cold killer. Machine Gun Kelly could not shoot all that straight and got an early trip to Alcatraz. Bonnie and Clyde led ignominious lives punctuated by bursts of murderous greed. Even Dillinger, the superstar of the lot thanks largely to his penchant for media promotion, was redeemed only by a chivalric inclination toward the female hostages he seized (but did not harm) and his policy of letting bank customers keep their wallets as he liberated the bank's money. 
 In short, this is a story not of Robin Hoods but of common, violent men (and their equally common but less violent women), who gained stardom by splashing color (blood red, of course) across an otherwise bleak landscape. Indeed, if Mr. Burrough's description of these criminals has a moral, it is that some people are simply born bad while, for others the hopelessness of poverty is as corrosive to the human soul as the acid these villains used to burn off their fingerprints.
 Mr. Burrough takes an equally realistic approach to the F.B.I. In 1933 J. Edgar Hoover was a little-known bureaucrat struggling to reinvigorate a missionless agency, armed mainly with his vision for an investigative force of young law-trained agents (white and male) who would employ ''scientific'' methods to catch criminals of national notoriety. The ''public enemies'' of the Great Depression posed the first real test for Hoover's solid-citizen recruits, as well as the few ''cowboys'' he held on to for their authentic crime-fighting experience. 
 In the first months they failed, miserably. Under the inept leadership of Hoover's aide, Melvin Purvis, the bureau routinely missed hot leads and blew stakeouts. They also got people killed, both themselves and bystanders.
 Over time the bureau's performance improved. Its agents, incorruptible (unlike some city cops) and courageous, learned how to use the guns they were belatedly issued and started to refine the use of informants and wiretaps that would become a bureau hallmark. With the help of local police, they gradually closed in on the gangs and, in a series of bloody shootouts, rendered America's most-wanted into bullet-ridden corpses. 
 Between Hoover's publicity machine and Hollywood's thirst for heroes, these manhunts gave birth to the legend of the bureau as a crack crime-fighting team. But Mr. Burrough is a ''just the facts ma'am'' reporter -- and in those the devil looms. Although the F.B.I. won its first war on crime, much of the credit belongs to local law enforcement, for which the F.B.I. showed an often foolish disdain. Meanwhile the bureau's tactics bore little resemblance to the clean-cut image Hoover sought to foster. Agents routinely tortured suspects (with Hoover's blessing), killed at least one innocent bystander, drummed up a false conviction and death sentence, and generally did not care whether they brought targets in dead or alive.
 The contemporary echoes in Mr. Burrough's tale are hard to miss. By the 1930's the need for a national police force to deal with the increasingly interstate nature of crime was palpable. But shaping such a force -- finding the right balance between centralized oversight and field-level initiative, gathering vital information without compromising national values, building a bureau identity without snubbing other law enforcement agencies -- were problems then and remain so now. With Mr. Burrough's book, at least those intractable dilemmas can be addressed based on historical truth rather than sentiment or propaganda.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bryan Burrough 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); LITERATURE (66%); CITIES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

PERSON: Edward P Lazarus; Bryan Burrough

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



386 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: For Bronx Land With Spotty Past, No Lack of Plans

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
For more than a decade, only poplar trees have grown between the stacked cinder blocks and rusted sheet metal on a 28-acre tract in the South Bronx. But suddenly the Oak Point garbage dump on the East River, abandoned in 1990 under a tangle of lawsuits, talk of mob ties and $60 million in debt, is sprouting with plans. The city wants to put jails there. The community hopes for an industrial recycling facility. 
 But by far the most ambitious scheme for the land is a 1,075-megawatt power plant, big enough to provide the Bronx with all the energy it needs while also supplying about one-tenth of the energy needed to meet New York City's total demand. 
 ''The city is rapidly running out of power,'' said Steven Smith, the owner of the property and the president of Oak Point Energy, the company seeking to build the $2 billion plant, which would be powered by natural gas. ''We intend to fill that need.'' 
 Anywhere else, such an usual array of possible uses for a godforsaken sliver of land would be tough to fathom. But in New York City, real estate -- even the polluted, abandoned and bankrupt kind -- can provoke the most furious of land grabs. 
 One of the largest privately owned pieces of undeveloped commercial real estate in the city, the site is located in the western corner of the Oak Point railyard next to Bruckner Boulevard, across the river from Rikers Island. 
 Among the city's dwindling number of undeveloped locations specifically zoned for heavy industry, the land is perfectly suited for a large and much-needed power plant, Mr. Smith said.
 Neighbors see it otherwise.
 ''We need a power plant here like we need a nuclear dump site,'' said Omar Freilla, president of the Green Worker Cooperative, a South Bronx community group that promotes environmentally friendly businesses. ''This community will oppose a plant with every bone in our body.''
 A power plant developer for more than 25 years, Mr. Smith used to work for A.B.B. Associates, a Zurich-based engineering and technology firm, but he left the company and founded Oak Point Energy in 2002, buying the land the same year. ''Everyone else saw this property and ran the other direction,'' he said. ''It has quite the checkered past.''
 In 1988, after the site was purchased from Conrail by Britestarr Homes Inc. for $3.2 million, the company talked of revitalizing the South Bronx by building a modular-housing factory there. But the factory was never built, and the property soon became known as the city's largest illegal dump, as Britestarr, a development company based in Greenwich, Conn., used it for a landfill without having the proper permits. 
 In 1991, Britestarr came under investigation for possible ties to John A. Gotti, the son of the reputed Gambino crime family boss. And by May 2002, the company filed for bankruptcy, leaving the property with more than $60 million worth of claims against it, including $17 million owed to the state's Department of Environmental Conservation in cleanup costs and fines, and $10 million in back taxes claimed by the city. 
 But Mr. Smith hopes to put all that behind him. 
 Last month, the creditors unanimously approved an agreement bringing the property out of bankruptcy. However, the amount of back taxes owed remains under litigation, which is part of the reason the city may have traction in pushing its own plans for the land.
 Sources with intimate knowledge of the negotiations say the city has offered to help Mr. Smith get the necessary permits for the plant if he leases portions of the land for the relocation of two city jails. In return, the city would deduct the amount owed in back taxes from the rent. 
 One of the jails would be the Bronx House of Detention, now in the shadow of Yankee Stadium. The other jail, a floating barge now parked in the East River adjacent to the Hunts Point Market, would be moved to the site, which includes about seven acres in the river and harbor space deep enough to handle the giant barge. 
 Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, declined to comment on the project because of litigation over the back taxes. 
 Adolfo Carrion Jr., the Bronx borough president, said he supported the idea of moving the jails because it would allow him to build a park with riverfront access where the barge is currently parked. Closing the Bronx House of Detention would open the way for further urban renewal near the Bronx Terminal market near Yankee Stadium, he said.
 But community groups argue that the borough needs jobs and clean air, not a power plant and new jails. 
 ''Enough is enough,'' said Elena Conte, the coordinator for solid waste and energy at Sustainable South Bronx, a community group. The borough already has 15 waste transfer stations, processing about 25 percent of the city's waste, and a sewage plant handling more than half the city's sludge, all of which bring more than 11,000 diesel trucks per day through the South Bronx, she said.
 The neighborhood is also downwind from four large power plants that dot the East River shoreline. The end result, she said, is that the area has the second-highest asthma rate in the country. 
 A better use for the land, said Mr. Freilla of the Green Worker Cooperative, would be an industrial recycling facility that would siphon off reusable materials such as scrap metal, glass, and plastics that normally get sent to a landfill with the rest of the large waste flow passing through the borough. 
 ''That's an idea that is proven to be able to help the people in the Bronx,'' Mr. Freilla said. 
 Mr. Freilla said a 1997 study showed that a recycling facility was feasible and that it would lessen pollution while producing several hundred jobs. Mr. Freilla added that since the property had water and rail access, it would be a waste to use it for jails.
 This is not the first time the city has proposed putting inmates on the site. In 1991, the city sought to build a 1,000-bed jail, budgeting $20 million to buy the land, more than seven times the price Britestarr paid for the property only three years before. The plans were dropped when allegations emerged that the property had ties to organized crime. 
 Britestarr always denied ties to the mob even though John A. Gotti was spotted repeatedly on the property by investigators, and his driver was an officer of the company. No charges ever resulted from the investigation.
 Mr. Smith said that while he remained open to the idea of a jail or a recycling facility, a power plant was the preferable option because it would provide the borough with energy independence and a way to lessen dependence on dirtier and older plants. The plant would be wired not to the main transmission grid but only to the Bronx's distribution grid, insulating it from power failures that affect the rest of the city, he said. 
 Electricity now used by the Bronx flows though other boroughs before arriving at its destination, increasing the potential for failure. ''The borough is the first to get browned out when there are energy shortages and the last to get power restored when there are major outages,'' he said. ''This project would put an end to that.'' 
 The plan is for a combined generation plant, which would use natural gas to produce electricity while also harvesting the exhaust from generators to turn other turbines, creating more electricity and emitting a third less emissions than older plants, Mr. Smith said. The project would also pour about $200 million into the local economy, he said. 
 ''We've heard it all before,'' said Ruben Diaz Jr., a Democratic state assemblyman who represents the southeast Bronx. The last time he received a similar sales pitch was in 2000 when, he said, the city and the New York Power Authority put four 10-megawatt generators in the Bronx to meet rising energy demand. 
 ''They promised to retrofit 1,000 yellow school buses to offset the overall emissions of pollution, they promised new jobs and they promised that the plants would be taken offline within three years,'' he said. ''Four years later, none of it has happened.'' 
 Mr. Carrion said he was undecided on whether the plant was best for the borough. ''I would certainly expect the city to consider removing the temporary plants in the Bronx belonging to the New York Power Authority in exchange for the new facility,'' he said.
 But he also said that he was aware of the city's growing need for new power. ''We can't afford to have our power grid fail and suffer another blackout,'' he said. ''We need to build capacity. The question now is whether it has to be here.'' 
 Paul Lipson, executive director of the Point, a community group in the South Bronx, said that rather than putting more plants in the neighborhood, the city needs to consider conservation tactics such as replacing subway lights with more efficient fluorescent bulbs and installing push-button escalators that turn off when not in use. 
 ''Once the city has really tightened its belt,'' he said, ''then come talk to the Bronx.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Smith, president of Oak Point Energy, wants to build a power plant on his 28-acre parcel in the South Bronx. Community groups are pushing for a recycling facility. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)Map of the Bronx shows the site of the proposed power plant: The site in question once gained notoriety as an illegal dump. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); LITIGATION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (67%); NUCLEAR WASTE (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%) Electric Light and Power; Organized Crime; Prisons and Prisoners; Waste Materials and Disposal; Recycling of Waste Materials; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: Oak Point Energy Co; Britestarr Homes Inc

PERSON: Ian Urbina; Steven (Oak Park Energy) Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



387 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: City Ballet's Summers in Saratoga Springs Are Dancing on the Edge

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
When the Saratoga Performing Arts Center decided in February to end New York City Ballet's summer residency after nearly 40 years, the virulent outcry from local residents and public officials won the dance company a reprieve. In April the arts center decided to have the ballet return to Saratoga Springs, which concluded its 2004 season on July 24, for its annual three-week stint next year. 
 But the ballet's long-term future there remains in doubt. The arts center, known by its acronym, SPAC, has said it cannot afford to continue the ballet unless average ticket sales increase.
 The controversy continues to roil the bucolic community in upstate New York's capital region. A nonprofit group called Save the Ballet has raised more than $40,000 toward the ballet's 2005 season. State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader, has pledged $300,000 in state matching funds toward that season, providing that the center raise $600,000. The state is conducting an audit of the organization, which is expected to be completed by this fall; it has the right to do so because the center is in a state-owned national park. 
 ''How the board is made up, how the budget is approved, how in the sunshine are all of these transactions made, how endowments are being invested -- all of these areas are being studied,'' said Bernadette Castro, the commissioner of the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, which has a long-term lease agreement with the center.
 ''We believe that the New York City Ballet has been a very important part of the cultural programming at SPAC,'' Ms. Castro added. ''We can't lose the ballet. It's part of the creative legacy of SPAC.''
 Herbert Chesbrough, the center's president and executive director for the last 35 years, said he was unconcerned about this new state scrutiny. ''I'm not worried about it at all,'' he said. ''If they have recommendations as to how we could do things better, we'd like to hear them.''
 The ballet has been part of the arts center since Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller put the first shovel in the ground to start construction in 1964. (The Rockefeller Brothers Fund helped pay for the building.) The center's stage pavilion, which includes outdoor and indoor seating, was designed in part expressly for City Ballet; George Balanchine, the City Ballet choreographer, was a member of the center's development board. Balanchine's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' was the opening-night attraction in July 1966. 
 ''This is a great historical relationship, and we would like to see it all work out,'' said Christopher Ramsey, City Ballet's director of external affairs. 
 The center was also founded as a summer home for the Philadelphia Orchestra, which remains in residency. (This year's engagement started on Aug. 4 and runs through Saturday.)
 During this summer's ballet engagement at the center, the ballet brought in 57,945 people, up from 55,496 last summer, a 5 percent increase, but still nowhere near the arts center's goal of 75,000 people, which was the average seasonal attendance for the ballet from 1978 to 1993.
 Advocates for keeping the ballet argue that no arts institution can expect to support itself through ticket sales alone and that the center has fallen down on the job of fund-raising and publicity for the ballet. ''There needs to be some imaginative marketing and better leadership,'' said State Assemblyman James N. Tedisco, Republican, who represents the region.
 ''People come to Saratoga -- they buy summer homes -- so they can see the greatest ballet company in the world,'' he added. ''There is an economic value that can't be measured in ticket sales. We could put on Phish concerts every night. That would give us nothing more than a dirty parking lot.''
 As part of its audit, the state is examining whether the center has made adequate efforts to cultivate revenue sources besides the box office. ''What cultural institution is paid for by the ticket buyer?'' Ms. Castro said. 
 Dee Sarno, executive director of the Saratoga County Arts Council, said: ''The job of the development department at SPAC is to raise money for classical programs, because no classical program pays for itself. It doesn't happen anywhere.''
 Mr. Chesbrough's wife, Kathleen Chesbrough, is the arts center's development director. Mr. Chesbrough said he and his staff had been doing the best they could, given a stage that depends on good weather and that faces increasing competition for people's leisure time.
 Mr. Chesbrough said fund-raising had increased each year, to $2.4 million in 2002 from $1.9 million in 2000, not including gifts in kind like free advertising. Mr. Chesbrough said he was confident that ticket sales could reach necessary levels to keep the ballet in years to come. ''I'm optimistic that if people who have come forward keep coming, we'll be fine,'' he said.
 Mr. Chesbrough said the arts center had lost as much as $1 million on the ballet's season in recent years. The center initially offered the ballet a 35 percent reduction in its $1.8 million fee, which the ballet rejected, arguing that it would not adequately cover expenses. 
 Mr. Chesbrough said he then proposed replacing City Ballet with three different ballet companies, each of which could perform for a week, with City Ballet returning every three years for its full season. But the residents of Saratoga would not have it -- a petition drive to keep the ballet collected 6,000 signatures. And contributions have started to come in; the center has received commitments of $470,000 so far toward Senator Bruno's matching grant, Mr. Chesbrough said. 
 Ms. Castro said she was blindsided by the center's initial decision to discontinue the ballet. ''We were shocked when we learned,'' she said. ''There had been no consultation.
 ''It caused me to have an instant interest in why this was happening,'' she continued. ''To take a look at documents, records, the compensation package, how did they get in such dire straits and could this have been avoided?'' She added that she expected to release the audit by mid-November.
 Like all cultural organizations, particularly those with short seasons, the Saratoga arts center has struggled over the last few years, running at an annual deficit of $400,000 to $500,000 on an operating budget of $13 million, Mr. Chesbrough said.
 It has been forced to dip into its $7 million endowment to cover operating expenses. The center discontinued New York City Opera's residency in 1997 to cut costs and in 1999 turned over its presentation of rock and pop concerts to Clear Channel Entertainment, which pays the center $1 million in rent to present up to 35 events each summer.
 The arts center's arrangement with Clear Channel is one of the issues that the state is looking into because Clear Channel is a commercial operation and the center is a nonprofit organization. ''SPAC is not Jones Beach, so there is a delicate balance that must be struck,'' Ms. Castro said.
 The state is also looking into Mr. Chesbrough's salary, which is more than $300,000 in addition to benefits, according to the company's 2002 tax return, the most recent data available. His wife is paid more than $70,000, according to the tax return. The state has brought in an outside audit company, the Bonadio Group, which specializes in executive compensation.
 In letters to local newspapers, several people have called for Mr. Chesbrough's resignation. Mr. Chesbrough said he planned to step down when his eight-year contract expires in 2006, a decision that has nothing to do with the recent conflict over the ballet. ''I planned to do that from the beginning,'' he said.
 Jennifer Leidig, a small business owner who is a member of the Save the Ballet committee, said City Ballet's permanent return was essential to Saratoga's economic health and public image. ''What are we going to say when we kick them out of our town -- 'Come to Saratoga Springs, population 28,000, we used to be the summer home of City Ballet'?'' Ms. Leidig said. ''We are concerned until we have in writing that City Ballet will be welcomed back at SPAC for many years to come. Anything less than a long-term residency here is unacceptable.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of New York City Ballet performing at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center last month. (Photo by Luanne M. Ferris/Times-Union)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (92%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); DANCE (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MATCHING GIFTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); HISTORY (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); AUDITS (67%); STATE PARKS (66%); TICKET SALES (55%); POLITICAL PARTIES (53%) Dancing; Finances

ORGANIZATION: New York City Ballet; Saratoga Performing Arts Center

PERSON: Robin Pogrebin; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Saratoga Springs (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



388 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Crisis in Sudan: Thorny Issues Underlying Carnage in Darfur Complicate World's Response

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NDJAMENA, Chad, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
There is no disagreement about the consequences of the war under way in Sudan, Africa's largest country: tens of thousands killed, cholera outbreaks, severe malnutrition, more than a million people forced to flee their homes, many into neighboring countries like Chad.
 Yet there is deep disagreement among world leaders over how to respond. The stalemate comes from issues underlying the conflict in Darfur, a region in western Sudan: questions of racial identity, competition for natural resources and the imperatives of a powerful sovereign state.
 Unfortunately for the victims of the war, the international response is also complicated by issues that reach beyond this conflict. First, in pitting Arab herders against black African farmers, the civil war in western Sudan underscores a larger struggle for power, land and water that cuts across borders in this arid part of Africa. Second, efforts to address the Darfur crisis have become entangled in the larger grievances of the Arab world -- not least, the United States-dominated war in Iraq. 
 The result? The Arab Islamist government of Sudan, joined by its allies in the Arab League, has angrily accused Western countries of ganging up against an Arab-led government to exploit its oil and gold reserves. The Bush administration has dismissed that contention, and the United States Congress has accused the Arab militias, backed by Sudan and known as the Janjaweed, of genocide against Darfur's black Africans. Nearly 150,000 black Africans have fled to seek refuge on the barren eastern frontiers of Chad.
 The United Nations, meanwhile, has threatened unspecified penalties if Sudan cannot prove by Aug. 31 that it can restore stability. Sudan and its allies have resolutely opposed outside intervention, like the deployment of foreign peacekeeping forces. And Europe and the United States have left it to the fledgling African Union, which represents the continent's governments, to handle matters on the ground.
 The Darfur crisis has presented a stark challenge to African leaders: How is Africa to live with its diversity, specifically its Arab and black African mix, and how are the continent's leaders, in fashioning a response in Darfur, to balance the claims of a sovereign state and an emergency facing ordinary Africans? Fortunately, for African leaders, this conflict has no religious divide: both sides are Muslims.
 The African Union has dispatched monitors to Darfur to oversee the cease-fire declared in April and has invited the Sudanese government and the two Darfur rebel groups to peace talks, starting Aug. 23, in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria. It is also sending a few hundred peacekeepers to Darfur, but only to protect its monitors, not Sudanese civilians.
 On Sunday, about 150 Rwandan troops were en route. Nigerians are scheduled to arrive in 10 days. 
 ''The Sudan government sees the A.U. as their best option,'' said one Western diplomat here. ''Wider international intervention is a bigger problem for Sudan than the A.U.''
 Clearly, the biggest potential threat for Sudan is the United Nations Security Council's deadline and the prospect of penalties.
 With little more than two weeks left, the United Nations secretary general's special representative for Darfur, Jan Pronk, described conditions as bleak and dangerous. 
 ''There is no improvement in terms of safety, there is more fighting, the humanitarian situation is as bad as it was,'' Mr. Pronk said Friday in a telephone interview from his office in Khartoum, Sudan's capital.
 Since February 2003, the war in Darfur, sparked by a rebel insurgency demanding political and economic rights for the people of western Sudan, has killed 50,000 civilians and displaced more than a million Sudanese, the United Nations estimates.
 Mr. Pronk said he met with Sudanese authorities on Thursday and laid out a timetable: Instruct local authorities in Darfur to disarm the Janjaweed in the next 10 days and demonstrate ''a substantial improvement in security'' in the 10 days after that.
 ''Local authorities should be forced to do what the national government has decided,'' Mr. Pronk added. ''It cannot be done in Khartoum only. It has to be done in Darfur. No attacks by the army. Exercise restraint. Even if the army is attacked by rebels, no retaliation.''
 Also on Friday, the government ordered tribal leaders in Darfur's three provinces to start disarming the Janjaweed, The Associated Press reported.
 Mr. Pronk credited President Omar el-Bashir of Sudan with having ordered the military to refrain from air raids and other attacks, but blamed the government-allied militias for violating the April cease-fire. 
 ''There are Janjaweed militia under the influence of the government,'' he said. ''We do not know how many. However, they are under influence of government, and they are continuing attacks.''
 Sudan has rejected foreign military intervention, saying it alone is responsible for security within its borders. Nigeria, the West African nation leading the peace talks, has already voiced frustration. ''What has to be made clear is that if Sudan will not yield to gentle and African pressure it will have to succumb to extra-African pressure that might not be so gentle,'' Remi Oyo, the spokeswoman for President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, was quoted as saying in an Agence France-Presse report.
 It is unclear whether the African Union will decide to send peacekeepers to protect civilians in Darfur -- or whether Sudan, one of the union's member states, will allow it to do so.
 Meanwhile, the most powerful Arab voice in the African Union, neighboring Libya, summoned both sides to informal talks late last week. One of those attending, Adam Shogar, of the Sudan Liberation Army, a Darfur rebel group, said in an interview here in Chad's capital that Libyan officials expressed to him their discomfort with the prospect of Western intervention in the region.
 ''They don't want the Americans and the others to come in,'' Mr. Shogar said. ''I told them, 'Not America alone, if the devil himself comes in to protect us, we accept him.'''
 The Sudan Liberation Army and the other rebel group, the Justice and Equality Movement, have agreed to take part in the Abuja talks. But already, some have voiced cynicism about their prospects.
 ''We don't have full trust that the African Union has the capability of solving this problem because the Sudanese government is not going to listen to them,'' Ahmed Tugod Lissan, coordinator of Justice and Equality Movement, said in an interview here. ''The Sudan government is building up for a war.''
 Depending on the role of the African Union on the ground and in negotiations, the crisis in Darfur will undoubtedly test its mettle as little else has. It will force the union to face the racial divide that has long bedeviled the continent in complicated ways, from a long tradition of slavery in Mauritania to recurrent clashes over land and water between Arab nomads against black African farmers here in Chad and in nearby Niger and Mali. Not least, the African Union itself must contend with Arab and African leaders within its ranks.
 That delicate balance is being closely watched by those who are counting on the African Union to take charge of solving the Darfur crisis. After all, with widespread discontent in the Arab world over Iraq, neither Americans nor Europeans are keen to put troops on the ground in another Arab-led country.''If the African Union splits over this issue, then its capacity to deal with this will diminish,'' said a senior European Union official in a recent telephone interview from Brussels. The Darfur crisis will also test how the African Union will balance the rights of a sovereign African nation with the rights of ordinary Africans.


GRAPHIC: Map of Sudan highlighting Darfur Region: The Darfur conflict has killed 50,000 and split world leaders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); RACE & RACISM (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); GENOCIDE (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); RELIGION (60%) Foreign Aid ; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Immigration and Refugees; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%)

PERSON: Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHAD (94%); NIGERIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); RWANDA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



389 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: To Be a Young, Unpaid Intern

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The idea that unpaid internships create a disadvantage for middle- and lower-income students is completely absurd.
 As a Pennsylvania native studying economics at Fordham University in the early 1990's, I had no personal or family connections in New York and plenty of student loans to worry about. An informal, unpaid internship with a broker at Merrill Lynch helped me learn firsthand about the financial markets and was a welcome addition to my lean resume.
 Sure, I could have earned a lot more waiting tables or bartending, but those jobs would never have given me what I really needed at the time: a reference on Wall Street who could vouch for the quality of my work.

John H. Christy
New York, Aug. 10, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%) Colleges and Universities; Internships; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: John H Christy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



390 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Everything but the Potted Plant; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: An Ambitious Package To Raise Productivity (And Microsoft's Profit)

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash. 

 BODY:
To most of the computer-using world, Microsoft Office is the familiar workhorse of the desktop, a collection of software for creating documents, spreadsheets and presentations. 
 But for Microsoft, which is starting to see its growth slow as it ages, reinventing that suite of old reliables -- including Word, Excel and PowerPoint -- has become nothing less than a key to its future. 
 ''Office defines business productivity,'' Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, told financial analysts in July. He added that ''the productivity area is probably the most important franchise that we have.'' 
 With that focus, Microsoft is now pursuing a strategy to transform Office from a bundle of programs on personal computers into a family of software that can put Microsoft's technology deeper into the operations of corporate data centers. As Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, wrote in an e-mail message to employees last month, ''Our biggest growth opportunity is with our existing base of Office users.'' 
 Microsoft is banking on the Office initiative to help it fend off the challenge from open-source software and other competitors. But if the plan stumbles, Microsoft's hopes for sustained growth and greater profits could come under heavy pressure.
 The logic of building on the Office franchise is not hard to see, given that it has more than 90 percent of the market for office software applications. 
 The information worker business at Microsoft, which is nearly all from Office, had revenues of $10.8 billion in the year ended in June, and operating profit of more than $7.15 billion. As a stand-alone business, Office -- which on average sells for about $275 -- would be slightly larger than the second-largest software company, Oracle, and far more profitable. Only the Windows operating system, the other pillar of Microsoft, is slightly larger.
 Traditional Office programs helped enhance productivity by allowing workers to easily create and modify digital documents. The aim of the new initiative is to increase the productivity with new tools for collaboration, communications, planning and document handling. 
 New programs -- like SharePoint, LiveMeeting, OneNote and InfoPath -- have been introduced in the last year or so as part of the ''Office system,'' a term Microsoft adopted last fall to replace ''Office suite.''
 The new design makes programs like Word, Excel and Outlook e-mail part of collaborative work spaces. In theory, a worker working in Word could tap into all the corporate information on a customer or project.
 ''Making collaboration faster, easier and more efficient will be the next revolution in worker productivity, and we want to be in the forefront,'' said Peter Rinearson, vice president for new business development in Microsoft's information worker group. ''The goal is to make Office a tool that steadily delivers productivity improvements. It becomes a competitive advantage for the companies that use it well. If you don't have it, you can't keep up.''
 Automating collaborative work, economists and analysts agree, is a promising frontier for productivity gains. The low-cost, networked communications of the Internet make it a possibility. But there is a long way to go. Analysts estimate that 95 percent of today's workers use the telephone and e-mail for team projects. Microsoft has plenty of competition in the emerging market, and Office's past success could prove an obstacle.
 ''Microsoft is trying to make Office less a product and more like an online service,'' said Nate Root, an analyst for Forrester Research. ''Adoption is going to be slow because Microsoft is trying to change the paradigm. It's a fundamental cultural change in how people think of and use Office.''
 Yet across the Microsoft corporate campus, there is only optimism. 
 Anoop Gupta, a former Stanford University professor and a vice president of Microsoft's real-time collaboration group, points to Microsoft's own experience with Web conferencing as proof of the new efficiencies. The company's use of LiveMeeting, a Microsoft conferencing program, has increased to 40,000 hours a week from 2,000 hours a week a year ago. Mr. Gupta says that one of every five face-to-face meetings can be replaced with Web conferencing tools, and Microsoft estimates that it will save $70 million in reduced travel this year.
 ''What is productivity? It's finding the right people and information, and not wasting a lot of time and energy with telephone tag,'' Mr. Gupta said. ''It means less time in airports and rental cars, and more time doing productive work and with your family. I think people understand and relate to these problems.''
 At Dinsmore & Shohl, a law firm in Cincinnati, Teresa Grote, the chief information officer, has used SharePoint and other Office tools for projects like setting up a collaborative work space, managing a class-action suit and monitoring accounts receivable.
 When a bill is overdue, a financial manager can, from an Outlook e-mail message or Word document, tap into customer information and quickly determine whether the firm's lawyers should continue working for that client or cut him off. Before, the information was in a separate database. Now the Microsoft software connects the separate silos of digital information, significantly shortening the review process. ''What took five days now takes about 15 minutes,'' Ms. Grote said.
 Larger companies like Boeing and Hewlett-Packard are also adopting the Office collaboration tools in sizable programs of several thousand workers. Behind the promise of benefits for users is a technical strategy that links Office more closely to other layers of Microsoft software. ''They all have to work together well to expand the notion of productivity into a world of personal, team and organizational productivity,'' said Steven Sinofsky, senior vice president for Office. Support for SharePoint, a Web collaboration program, for example, was built into Windows Server 2003. 
 The collaboration features of Office depend on software standards known as Web services. Documents, e-mail, spreadsheets and other kinds of data tagged with the Web services markers can be found and retrieved by a computer. Office 2003, introduced last October, was built to handle and understand the Web services technology. 
 ''Office becomes a platform for interacting with other applications across the Internet,'' said Richard G. Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman Sachs & Company. ''The whole character of Office will change.'' 
 Because the next version of Windows, called Longhorn, may not ship until 2007, analysts say, the Office overhaul is needed in the meantime to deliver more Web services technology to the desktop. The new capabilities in the Office system are also needed to lure software developers to create more applications that run on Microsoft products. 
 ''We never did Office before, but now we're building applications on top of SharePoint for automating the flow of work and business processes,'' said Randall L. Schilling, president of Quilogy, a company in St. Charles, Mo., that had built custom software applications on Microsoft's SQL databases. Half of its consulting engagements, Mr. Schilling said, now include building applications on top of Office, mostly using SharePoint.
 Microsoft's Office business grew 14 percent last year, but analysts expect the rate to slow considerably this year, as the financial impact ebbs of upgrade contracts that Microsoft pressed customers to sign a few years ago. The underlying growth rate of the business, analysts say, is 6 to 8 percent.
 Programs like SharePoint, InfoPath and OneNote, sold separately, will add to revenues. Their retail price is typically about $100 each for individual users, but sizable corporate discounts are common. Still, a few add-ons would increase the annual fees of $200 or so that a large corporation might pay per employee in a subscription-style contract for Office running on Windows, including upgrades, maintenance and some programming features like tools for designing Web pages.
 Equally important, the new Office innovations are needed to convince customers that they still need Microsoft. Indeed, the push behind Office is as much defense as offense. Enhancing Office is vital not just to Microsoft's growth but to staying ahead of the next wave of open-source software office applications. Challengers like Sun Microsystems' StarOffice, OpenOffice.org and the Open Source Applications Foundation offer free or very inexpensive alternatives to Microsoft's Office programs, hoping to follow in the footsteps of Linux, the increasingly popular open-source operating system, which competes with Microsoft's Windows operating system.
 ''There is competition now,'' said Jonathan Schwartz, president of Sun Microsystems. ''Competition will make it difficult for Microsoft to raise prices, and to keep extending its very expensive, one-size-fits-all approach to selling Office.'' 
 At the same time, Microsoft faces strong competitors in the collaboration field. I.B.M., for example, has sold Web conferencing, Web-based work spaces and other software for years, and leads in some market segments.
 But none of the competitors have Microsoft's grip on the PC desktop. Jean Balgrosky, chief information officer of Scripps Health, a nonprofit hospital group in San Diego, ran through a list of the new Office software's advantages for automating tasks like converting paper records to electronic forms that can be easily searched by doctors.
 Moreover, Ms. Balgrosky noted, there is one crucial consideration. ''For whatever we do, everyone is pretty much already trained,'' she said. ''Microsoft Office is what the world uses and is familiar with.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean Balgrosky, chief information officer for Scripps Health, noted what may be the new software's most critical edge: ''Microsoft Office is what the world uses and is familiar with.'' (Photo by Jack Smith for The New York Times)
Some parts of the new Office system will also be sold separately, adding to revenues. (Photo by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. C3)
 (pg. C1)Chart: ''Microsoft's Money Machine''If Microsoft's information worker division, largely devoted to the company's Office software, were a stand-alone business, it would be larger and more profitable than Microsoft's closest competitors in the software business.Figures for most recent four quartersMicrosoft Office: $10.8Oracle: 10.2SAP: 8.6OPERATING PROFITSMicrosoft Office: $8.0*Oracle: 3.9SAP: 2.2*Includes cost of stock awards to employees(Source by Company reports)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (88%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); OFFICE DESIGN (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (68%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (91%); ORACLE CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (78%); BILL GATES (58%) Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



391 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Offices Hold the Line On Security Spending; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2085 words

HEADLINE: Stringent Measures Gather Dust, Experts Say

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER and CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Thomas E. Cavanagh, a researcher who has spent three years studying how corporations responded to the Sept. 11 terror attacks, set out last spring to answer a basic question: were executives of midsize companies -- including potentially vulnerable industries like transportation, financial services, utilities and telecommunications -- spending more on security than they did before the disaster? The results were not without surprises: almost half the roughly 100 companies on which he gained information had not increased annual spending on security at all after Sept. 11. Indeed, nearly 40 percent of the executives said security was an expense that should be minimized.
 And, in a different sort of measure of the commitment to heightened security, a quarter of the companies said their chief executives had not met in the last year with their security chiefs.
 ''What we are seeing is an evolution instead of a revolution in corporate security,'' said Mr. Cavanagh, who works for the Conference Board and whose study was sponsored by the Department of Homeland Security. 
 ''For a lot of companies, the sense of urgency isn't there. There may be a sense of complacency that has sunk in because there hasn't been a serious incident since 9/11,'' he said. 
 Indeed, interviews with experts and company officials, conducted since the news earlier this month that Al Qaeda had identified financial institutions in New York, Newark and Washington as possible targets of terrorist attacks, show that there have been in many cases only incremental changes in corporate security since 9/11. 
 The experts say the reasons for the faltering revolution -- 9/11, it was once thought, would provoke profound and lasting changes for businesses of all sizes across the country -- are varied, ranging from a concern about costs to simply a lack of sustained focus and vigilance. 
 ''There were even some companies that buried their heads in the sand,'' said William Daly, a former F.B.I. counterintelligence investigator who runs the New York office of Control Risks Group. ''Security is kind of incident-driven, and continues to be that way.''
 Without question, many companies after 9/11 took serious steps, some quite ambitious and costly, to protect their employees and their assets. Gregg A. Popkin, senior managing director of CB Richard Ellis Inc., which manages about 115 commercial buildings in the metropolitan area, says landlords in those buildings have spent a combined $50 million on scanners, turnstiles and other measures in the past three years.
 William D. Zollars, chairman of Yellow Roadway Corporation, the country's largest trucking company, figures security has added $50 million a year to his operating costs since 9/11.
 But there is much that has not changed all that dramatically. Plans that were drawn up were shelved, security machines put in place have been taken out, and computer security remains far from perfect.
 James R. Bucknam, executive vice president for operations at the security consulting firm Kroll Inc., said that the recent terror alert has sparked interest in reviving plans and installing things like concrete barriers.
 ''On the whole, the plans were pretty good, but too many of them had gathered dust,'' Mr. Bucknam said.
 John Santora, who handles security for the firm Cushman & Wakefield, which manages 200 buildings in the New York metropolitan area, recalls that after Sept. 11 tenants rushed to install package scanners in their lobbies and to inspect visitors' belongings, briefcases and even purses. But, as time passed without another attack, some of those scanners were used only to check deliveries or were relegated to back rooms.
 ''I don't know why some buildings put them away,'' he said, adding that many of those tenants are now rolling out the machines again as they step up security after the latest threats.
 Lawrence Loesch, vice president and general manager for the New York City region of Allied Security, which supplies private security guards, said money has been a factor for many corporations, particularly given the tough economy since 9/11.
 ''Probably if we didn't have the most recent threat, a lot of things would be on hold,'' he said. In the past six months, he said, some of his firm's clients had cut back on security guards. 
 ''It's finances,'' he said. They began ''to put together their budgets and started cutting.'' 
 But he underscored that focus and spending are directly affected by the kinds of alerts like the one earlier this month. In the first week or so after the alert, he said, his firm received orders in New York for 6,000 more hours of guard services, or about 5 percent above normal.
 Steve Vitale, canine director for GSS Security Services in Manhattan, which provides bomb-sniffing dogs, agreed that commitment to increased security had fallen off since 9/11: ''People were cognizant of security right after 9/11, and I guess that went on for a couple of years. But now they're more cognizant of the dollars it is costing.'' 
 Some experts, though, suggested that a true improvement in security had taken place among the country's largest companies and corporations. A security official with one financial services company in Lower Manhattan, who asked not to be identified because the company wants to keep a low profile on such matters, said steps included stopping cars outside buildings before they reach the garage, and putting ventilation systems under tighter control.
 ''The picture now is totally different,'' he said.
 He and other officials also cited improved cooperation among companies themselves and with law enforcement. The F.B.I.'s New York office, for example, recently began sending an e-mail newsletter to hundreds of corporate security directors, offering information related to terrorism and other criminal activity.
 The survey of midsized companies, done by Mr. Cavanagh for the Conference Board, an international business research organization based in New York, found that 40 percent of larger firms, with 1,000 or more employees, had established off-site emergency operations centers, while only 21 percent of smaller ones had. ''Given the vital role that smaller midmarket companies play in the economy,'' the report noted, ''the economic impact could be quite severe indeed should another terrorist episode of the scale of 9/11 unfold in a heavily populated area.'' 
 The Board surveyed top executives of firms with annual revenues of between $20 million and $1 billion, of which about one-third were in the so-called critical industries. 
 Alfonso Martinez-Fonts Jr., director of the private sector office of the Department of Homeland Security, said that the survey shows that there is more work to be done, but that much has been accomplished. He cited, for example, a finding that 61 percent of the executives saw security as a good investment. As for the quarter of top executives who had not met with security chiefs in the past year, he said there needs to be ''more outreach to them.'' The other three quarters ''get it,'' he said. 
 Last year, another Conference Board survey, of more than 300 larger companies, found that there was only a slight rise in security spending, a median increase of 4 percent in the year after 9/11. 
 Robert Reiter, the national sales manager of Leda U.S.A., a manufacturer of bollards, the steel posts used to block buildings and entrances, said he has seen a lack of urgency in the implementation of security measures in some commercial real estate around the country. ''I can tell you that I have three or four corporate clients that have said, 'We are all set. We have your pricing. As soon as something happens in the continental United States, we'll push the button.'''
 He said another client, a nonprofit institution in New York, took about a year to decide whether to install bollards in front of -- or behind -- its entrance gates. The delay was mostly one of aesthetics, he said. He declined to identify the institution.
 Security also remains a question in corporate computer networks, said Edward M. Stroz, a retired F.B.I. agent who formed and supervised the computer crimes squad in the bureau's New York office, and now runs his own consulting firm. 
 While some companies have been properly concerned about obtaining bodyguards, gates, alarms and cameras, he said, some nonetheless have failed to recognize that their Web site can make them vulnerable to physical attack. ''It was really very hard to get this point through to people,'' Mr. Stroz said. 
 He explained: ''If I want to blow up this building or I want to introduce anthrax or sarin into the building, I want to know how it's ventilated; I want to know where people work; I want to know what kind of heating or cooling systems you have, how people get in and out. If your Web site takes me on a virtual tour of your facilities -- and we've had clients who do this -- it's a wonderful thing for your friends. It's really dangerous to give to your enemies.''
 Companies can also lose control where ''systems are being run and operated by nonemployees,'' or where functions are out-sourced overseas, he said.
 The recent heightened alert came at a time when corporations have been trying to be more vigilant with the Republican National Convention just two weeks away. Companies and building managers have been putting together alternate routes for employees to enter and leave the city, for example. And several firms that were planning to add extra guards during the convention did so a few weeks early.
 Moreover, many companies that installed electronic card readers and hired more guards after 9/11 have kept them. A few building managers say that if there is an actual attack, they will take draconian measures like shutting down stores in their buildings, or closing off access from subway stations. But for now, they are comfortable with the systems they have in place.
 ''We're taking the latest threat very seriously, but you have to have levels of response other than shutting down the economy of a building every time there's a threat,'' said Mr. Popkin of CB Richard Ellis.
 In addition to the $50 million spent since 9/11 by his firm's clients on scanners, turnstiles and other measures, he said, he figures operating expenses -- bomb-sniffing dogs, extra and better trained guards and such -- have doubled.
 ''Tenants and landlords who once would hire a guard who was on off-hours from McDonald's now want a full-time professional who understands the building,'' Mr. Popkin said. 
 His firm is spot-checking security records of cleaning workers and others who work for contractors. ''In the old days we worried about what employees were taking out of the building,'' he said. ''Nowadays you worry what they're bringing in.''
 In some cases, companies that ramped up security after 9/11 made reasoned decisions to cut back after evaluating their location and the likelihood of actually becoming a target, said Robert Littlejohn, vice president for global security of Avon Products and a former president of the International Security Management Association. 
 ''What we really have to ask ourselves is: What is the threat? What could the impact be? What is the probability of it happening? Realistically,'' Mr. Littlejohn said.
 In one sense, before the alert last week, the security pendulum had swung back to a middle ground between the pre-9/11 innocence and the clampdown that followed.
 John K. Campbell, the Rockefeller Group's director of security, recalls almost nostalgically the campus-style atmosphere that existed before 9/11 in the four Sixth Avenue buildings his company manages. ''There was free access to the building, free access to the elevator banks, anyone could get on an elevator, go to a tenant's floor,'' he said.
 Immediately after 9/11, all but the main entrances to many of the buildings were closed, and guards checked everyone's identification before anyone could even enter the front door. 
 Since then, though, most of the buildings have installed turnstiles at elevator banks, with package scanners and other technological devices. 
 Many send incoming mail to new centers for screening, and routinely use bomb-sniffing dogs at loading docks. There are yearly training sessions for security guards.
 Otherwise, the buildings are back to a semblance of free flow. ''I'm not saying we wouldn't go back to total secure mode if something happened,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''But at this point we feel we don't have to. We agree with the public officials: life must go on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A number of big companies erected security barriers after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack. At 1251 Avenue of the Americas, at 50th Street in Midtown Manhattan, top, flower beds serve as a security device. Concrete barriers, with no greenery, secure an entry area to a building at 40 West 57th Street. (Photographs by Cary Conover for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Corporate security projects often take the form of protective barriers against attacks since Sept. 11. Metal poles secure the 51st Street entrance to the building at 1271 Avenue of the Americas. (Photo by Cary Conover for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TRUCKING (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Terrorism

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (62%); YRC WORLDWIDE INC (61%); CONTROL RISKS GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (82%); AL-QAEDA (54%) Homeland Security Department; Conference Board; Yellow Roadway Corp

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (62%); YRCW (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (62%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (62%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (61%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (61%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: WILLIAM D ZOLLARS (89%) Thomas E Cavanagh; William Daly; Benjamin Weiser; Claudia H Deutsch; William D Zollars

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



392 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelans Line Up to Vote on Whether to Recall President

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
Democracy and patience were put to the test here on Sunday, as millions of people across the country waited in long lines for hours to vote on whether to keep their polarizing president, Hugo Chavez, in power.
 The vote, which political analysts have said is the first presidential recall election in Latin America, was sluggish, as huge numbers of Venezuelans showed up at 8,394 polling sites across this country of 25 million. 
 By early Sunday night, voting was still far from finished, and it remained unclear whether the opposition had mustered the 3.76 million votes it needed -- more than the number of votes Mr. Chavez received in 2000 when he was elected to a six-year term. 
 But even if the opposition receives enough votes, Mr. Chavez can still win if his total tops the opposition's. Further, if he is recalled, a presidential election will be held in a month, and Mr. Chavez has already said he will run again.
 By early afternoon on Sunday, some polling sites reported that only a fraction of the voters registered to cast ballots had voted, with most still waiting and grumbling in long lines under a blazing sun. 
 After both government supporters and opponents complained about the wait, election officials said polling sites, which had been scheduled to close at 4 p.m., would remain open until midnight. It appeared that it would take until Monday for an official outcome to be released, though both the government and opposition late Sunday night issued voter survey results claiming victory.
 ''This is the largest turnout I have ever seen,'' said former President Jimmy Carter, whose Carter Center in Atlanta is monitoring the electoral process and has observed dozens of elections worldwide. He later told reporters that it has ''taken longer for each vote than expected,'' but that ''everyone who wishes to vote in Venezuela will be able to vote.''
 Many Venezuelans began their day as early as 3 a.m., with Mr. Chavez's fervent supporters detonating fireworks and blasting music to roust people from their beds. But while many of the country's 14 million registered voters headed to the polls an hour or two before they opened at 6 a.m., they found themselves still waiting to cast their ballots hours later.
 ''Look at this,'' said Jean Carlos Luque, 25, a security guard, noting that he had been waiting in line five hours and had barely moved 30 feet. ''I've just moved from that telephone pole. That's it.''
 There had been concerns that the new electronic touch-screen voting machines made by Smartmatic, a Florida company, could malfunction, but the machines worked well, election observers and electoral authorities said. 
 But fingerprint scanners used to ensure against fraud slowed the process considerably. And the sheer size of the turnout seemed to have taken electoral authorities by surprise, with political analysts predicting that the abstention rate could fall to as low as 20 percent.
 ''You have to be patient,'' said Alvaro Sucre, a volunteer poll watcher for an anti-Chavez group, as he talked with two foreign reporters while affluent voters waited to cast ballots. ''People have worked hard for this and they will be ready to wait until midnight if need be to exercise their rights.''
 Venezuelans were presented with two starkly different options: supporting a leader who had promised to transform this country to ease life for the poor or throw him out for what opposition groups call his autocratic tendencies and ineptitude.
 Since winning office in a 1998 landslide election that smashed two long-ruling parties blamed for corruption and nepotism, Mr. Chavez has set out to remake the nation. 
 He has purged members of the country's traditional elite from government, concentrated his powers through referendums and embarked on a lavish social spending binge that, supporters in the barrios say, constitutes the first time a government has put them first.
 ''If yes wins, everything will go backwards, and that's why we need to say no,'' said Maria Arevalo, 43, a seamstress, as she waited to vote in a poor neighborhood called Isaias Medina Angarita. ''We have worked so hard for all of this.''
 But jobs are scarce, and crime is rampant. Caracas has become one of Latin America's most dangerous cities, and the change has alienated many residents.
 ''I want to change this system of government,'' said Cesar Ramirez, 71, a former diplomat, after voting at the Santos Tomas de Villanueva school. ''It's autocratic, inept and is damaging our country.''
 Mr. Chavez 's five and a half years in power have, to be sure, been tumultuous. Since 2001, when the government adopted a series of economic measures unpopular with businessmen and unions, his administration has been buffeted by protests and strikes, with the economy contracting nearly 20 percent in 2002 and 2003.
 But the president has weathered the troubles and grown stronger, purging adversaries from the military and firing 18,000 antigovernment oil managers at the state oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela. With the oil company firmly under government control, and with high oil prices bringing in huge profits, Mr. Chavez has in recent months funneled hundreds of millions of dollars in oil revenues straight into social programs. 
 Mr. Chavez's approval rating has shot up as a result, giving him a slight edge in some recent polls. But many analysts have declined to predict what that outcome could be, saying that the polls have been too close to call and that perhaps 20 percent of voters said they remained undecided as of Sunday morning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BIOMETRICS (60%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%) Referendums; Recall (Elections); Politics and Government; Elections

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); JIMMY CARTER (57%) Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004



393 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Safety Gap Grows Wider Between S.U.V.'s and Cars

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
The gap in safety between sport utility vehicles and passenger cars last year was the widest yet recorded, according to new federal traffic data. 
 People driving or riding in a sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in an accident than people in cars, the figures show. The government began keeping detailed statistics on the safety of vehicle categories in 1994. 
 S.U.V.'s continue to gain in popularity, despite safety concerns and the vehicles' lagging fuel economy at a time when gasoline prices are high. For the first seven months of 2004, S.U.V.'s accounted for 27.2 percent of all light-duty vehicle sales, up from 26 percent in the period a year earlier, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. However, sales growth for the largest sport utility vehicles has stalled lately, while small and medium-size S.U.V.'s, engineered more like cars than pickup trucks, continue to make rapid gains. 
 New figures from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shed light on how wide the differences in safety can be from one vehicle to another in the S.U.V. category, which now encompasses scores of models. For example, a few newer S.U.V. models appear to have a sharply lower risk of rolling over in an accident than other models. 
 Over all, crash fatalities declined across the board in 2003 to the lowest levels in six years, the government figures show, with 42,643 people killed in traffic accidents in the United States. Much of the decline appeared to come from fewer people driving drunk and more people buckling up. But the United States has not made as much progress as some other developed nations, because rates of seat belt use remain lower here and because of the growing numbers of S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks, which tend to pose greater hazards than cars both to their occupants and to others on the road. 
 Industry groups have insisted for years that S.U.V.'s are at least as safe as passenger cars, if not safer. One group run by industry lobbyists, called the Sport Utility Vehicle Owners of America, says on its Web site that it is a myth that S.U.V.'s guzzle gas or that their higher rollover rate makes them more dangerous for their occupants. Ron DeFore, a spokesman for the group, cited statistics from the insurance industry, which found last year that fatality rates for newer sport utility vehicles were markedly improved from older models. 
 ''Most people have gotten a skewed vision about the S.U.V. and think they're unsafe, and that's just not true,'' Mr. DeFore said. 
 But the main reason for the safety gap in S.U.V. and car fatalities, according to federal regulators, is that S.U.V.'s are more likely to roll over, a particularly deadly accident event that is a symptom of their higher ground clearance. 
 ''It's largely a function of the rollover problem,'' said Rae Tyson, a spokesman for the traffic agency. ''In certain types of crashes, you're more likely to be better off in an S.U.V., but that is offset by the fact the you're more likely to roll over.''
 Joan Claybrook, president of the consumer advocacy group Public Citizen and a former top auto safety regulator, said, ''There's no question that the rollover problem with S.U.V.'s really undermines their safety.''
 The traffic safety agency reported last week that there were 16.42 deaths of S.U.V. occupants in accidents last year for every 100,000 registered S.U.V.'s. The figure for passenger cars was 14.85 deaths for each 100,000 registered; pickups were slightly higher than cars at 15.17 deaths per 100,000, while vans were lowest at 11.2 occupant deaths for every 100,000 registered. 
 But not all S.U.V.'s are alike. New government data shows how much better some S.U.V.'s fare than others in tipping situations, the category's weak spot.
 This year, the government started conducting rollover tests on a test track rather than merely analyzing the vehicle's dimensions on paper to determine rollover risk, as it had done in the past. One-third of the 2004-model S.U.V.'s that it tested tipped up on two wheels, halting the tests of those vehicles. One S.U.V. made by General Motors, the Saturn Vue, even had its suspension break on both the two- and four-wheel drive models, prompting G.M. to recall the vehicle. No passenger car tipped during the testing. 
 The traffic agency has also released new rankings of rollover risk for many 2004 models. It calculated that the Honda Pilot S.U.V. has only a 16 percent chance of rolling over during a single-vehicle crash, compared with a 26 percent chance for the Chevrolet Tahoe and for many versions of the Ford Explorer. 
 The Chrysler Pacifica, an S.U.V. that somewhat resembles a station wagon, was found to have only a 13 to 14 percent risk, comparable to passenger cars, which ranged from an 8 percent risk for the Mazda RX-8 to 15.5 percent for the Subaru Outback wagon. 
 Rollover risk, though, is only one part of the safety picture. In crashes between vehicles, heavier vehicles tend to perform better than lighter ones, which is one reason that the smallest cars tend to have the highest occupant-fatality rates. The ways that people who own different types of vehicles tend to drive them is also a factor, especially in the case of sports cars. 
 But weight is not a simple proxy for safety. In a federal crash study this year, large passenger cars and station wagons, averaging about 3,600 pounds unloaded, were found to have a death rate of 3.3 for each billion miles traveled; they were second only to minivans, which had a rate of 2.76. 
 Ranked third safest after the large-car category were the largest, tanklike sport utility vehicles, which weigh in at an average of 5,100 pounds unloaded; their death rate was 3.79 for every billion miles. Midsize cars, averaging just over 3,000 pounds unloaded, had a 5.26 fatality rate; midsize S.U.V.'s, by far the most popular type, with an average weight over 4,000 pounds, had a death rate of 6.73 in the study. 
 Even within categories, there was considerable variation in performance from model to model. Detailed results for federal front- and side-impact tests and rollover tests can be found online at www.safercar.gov. 
 Complicating the safety question is what happens to people in the other vehicle in a collision. Because of the higher ground clearance of sport utilities and large pickup trucks, their bumpers often skip over the crash structures of passenger cars, raising the likelihood that an occupant of the car will be killed or seriously injured. 
 Automakers have agreed to work together on structural changes, and the traffic safety agency has proposed new rules that would require automakers to install side air bags as a way to mitigate the problem. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A reason for the safety gap in sport utility, foreground, and car fatalities, according to regulators, is that S.U.V.'s are more likely to roll over because they have a higher ground clearance than that of cars. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C5)Graph: ''Risk of Death''The fatality rates for occupants of all vehicles involved in crashes have declined in recent years, but the gap between the top-selling categories -- sport utility vehicles and cars -- has increased.Graph tracks deaths for each 100,000 registered vehicles, since 1994. (Source by National Highway Trafffic Safety Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); INSURANCE (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (55%); WEB SITES (50%) Roads and Traffic; Accidents and Safety; Records and Achievements; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Sales; Automobiles; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (82%) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Ward's Auto Info Bank

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



394 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: CHARTER SCHOOLS TRAIL IN RESULTS, U.S. DATA REVEALS

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
The first national comparison of test scores among children in charter schools and regular public schools shows charter school students often doing worse than comparable students in regular public schools.
 The findings, buried in mountains of data the Education Department released without public announcement, dealt a blow to supporters of the charter school movement, including the Bush administration.
 The data shows fourth graders attending charter schools performing about half a year behind students in other public schools in both reading and math. Put another way, only 25 percent of the fourth graders attending charters were proficient in reading and math, against 30 percent who were proficient in reading, and 32 percent in math, at traditional public schools.
 Because charter schools are concentrated in cities, often in poor neighborhoods, the researchers also compared urban charters to traditional schools in cities. They looked at low-income children in both settings, and broke down the results by race and ethnicity as well. In virtually all instances, the charter students did worse than their counterparts in regular public schools. 
 Charters are expected to grow exponentially under the new federal education law, No Child Left Behind, which holds out conversion to charter schools as one solution for chronically failing traditional schools.
 ''The scores are low, dismayingly low,'' said Chester E. Finn Jr., a supporter of charters and president of the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation, who was among those who asked the administration to do the comparison.
 Mr. Finn, an assistant secretary of education in the Reagan administration, said the quality of charter schools across the country varied widely, and he predicted that the results would make those overseeing charters demand more in the way of performance.
 ''A little more tough love is needed for these schools,'' Mr. Finn said. ''Somebody needs to be watching over their shoulders.''
 Mr. Finn and other backers of charter schools contended, however, that the findings should be considered as ''baseline data,'' and could reflect the predominance of children in these schools who turned to charters after having had severe problems at their neighborhood schools.
 The results, based on the 2003 National Assessment of Educational Progress, commonly known as the nation's report card, were unearthed from online data by researchers at the American Federation of Teachers, which provided them to The New York Times. The organization has historically supported charter schools but has produced research in recent years raising doubts about the expansion of charter schools. 
 Charters are self-governing public schools, often run by private companies, which operate outside the authority of local school boards, and have greater flexibility than traditional public schools in areas of policy, hiring and teaching techniques.
 Federal officials said they did not intend to hide the performance of charter schools, and denied any political motivation for failing to publicly disclose that the data were available. ''I guess that was poor publicity on our part,'' said Robert Lerner, the federal commissioner for education statistics. Mr. Lerner said further analysis was needed to put the data in its proper context. 
 But others were skeptical, saying the results proved that such schools were not a cure-all. ''There's just a huge distance between the sunny claims of the charter school advocates and the reality,'' said Bella Rosenberg, an special assistant to the president of the American Federation of Teachers. ''There's a very strong accountability issue here.''
 Of the nation's 88,000 public schools, 3,000 are charters, educating more than 600,000 students. But their ranks are expected to grow as No Child Left Behind identifies thousands of schools for possible closing because of poor test scores. 
 Once hailed as a kind of free-market solution offering parents an escape from moribund public schools, elements of the charter school movement have prompted growing concern in recent years. Around the country, more than 80 charter schools were forced to close, largely because of questionable financial dealings and poor performance, said Luis Huerta, a professor at Columbia University Teachers College. In California, the state's largest charter school operator has just announced the closing of at least 60 campuses, The Los Angeles Times reported on Monday, stranding 10,000 children just weeks before the start of the school year. 
 The math and reading tests were given to a nationally representative sample of about 6,000 fourth graders at 167 charter schools in February 2003. Some 3,200 eighth graders at charter schools also took the exams, an insufficient number to make national comparisons.
 The results are not out of line with earlier local and state studies of charter school performance, which generally have shown charters doing no better than traditional public schools. But they offered the first nationally representative comparison of children attending both types of schools, and are expected influence public debate.
 Amy Stuart Wells, a sociology professor at Columbia University Teachers College, called the new data ''really, really important.''
 ''It confirms what a lot of people who study charter schools have been worried about,'' she said. ''There is a lack of accountability. They're really uneven in terms of quality.''
 Detractors have historically accused charters of skimming the best students, those whose parents are most committed, from the poorest schools. But supporters of charter schools said the data confirmed earlier research suggesting that charters take on children who were already performing below average. ''We're doing so much to help kids that are so much farther behind, and who typically weren't even continuing in school,'' said Jeanne Allen, president of the Center for Education Reform, in Washington, which represents charter schools. She said the results reflect only ''a point in time,'' and said nothing about the progress of students in charter schools.
 That, she said, could be measured only by tracking the performance of charters in future tests. For the moment, however, the National Assessment Governing Board has no plans to survey charters again.
 One previous study, however, suggests that tracking students over time might present findings more favorable to the charter movement. Tom Loveless, director of the Brown Center on Education Policy at the Brookings Institution, who conducted a two-year study of 569 charter schools in 10 states found that while charter school students typically score lower on state tests, over time they progress at faster rates than students in traditional public schools. 
 The new test scores on charter schools went online last November, along with state-by-state results from the national assessment. Though other results were announced at a news conference, with a report highlighting the findings, federal officials never mentioned that the charter school data were publicly available.
 Researchers at the American Federation of Teachers were able to gain access to the scores from the national assessment's Web site only indirectly: by gathering results based on how schools identified themselves in response to a question.
 In a significant departure from earlier releases of test scores, Mr. Lerner said the charter school findings would be formally shown only as part of a larger analysis that would adjust results for the characteristics of charter schools and their students.
 In the 1990's, the National Assessment Governing Board had rejected requests from states for such analyses, with Mr. Finn, then a member of the board, contending that explanatory reports would compromise the credibility of the assessment results by trying to blame demographic and other outside factors for poor performance.
 But Mr. Lerner said he thought such an analysis was necessary to put the charter school test scores in context. He called the raw comparison of test scores ''the beginning of something important,'' and said, ''What one has to do is adjust for many different variables to get a sense of what the effects of charter schools are.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Charter School Scores''In almost every racial, economic and geographic category, fourth graders attending charter schools are outperformed by their peers in traditional public schools.PERCENT OF 4TH GRADERS AT OR ABOVE BASIC LEVEL IN:MATHRACEWhiteCharter schools: 84Other public: 87BlackCharter schools: 50Other public: 54HispanicCharter schools: 58Other public: 62INCOMEEligible for public lunchCharter schools: 53Other public: 62Not EligibleCharter schools: 80Other public: 88LOCATIONCentral cityCharter schools: 58Other public: 68Urban fringe/large townCharter schools: 78Other public: 80Rural/small townCharter schools: 84Other public: 80PERCENT OF 4TH GRADERS AT OR ABOVE BASIC LEVEL IN: READINGRACEWhiteCharter schools: 71Other public: 74BlackCharter schools: 37Other public: 40HispanicCharter schools: 45Other public: 43INCOMEEligible for public lunchCharter schools: 38Other public: 45Not EligibleCharter schools: 70Other public: 76LOCATIONCentral cityCharter schools: 50Other public: 52Urban fringe/large townCharter schools: 64Other public: 66Rural/small townCharter schools: 64Other public: 67(Source by National Center for Education Statistics, as compiled by American Federation of Teachers)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ETHNICITY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%) Education and Schools; Reading and Writing Skills; Mathematics; Charter Schools; Tests and Testing; Law and Legislation ; Urban Areas ; Education and Schools; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%)

PERSON: Diana Jean Schemo; George W (Pres) Bush; Chester E Jr Finn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



395 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: City Lowering Its Sights for a Convention Boom

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
City officials have promoted the Republican National Convention as a $265 million wave on the becalmed sea of New York City's summer economy, but now that the convention is two weeks away, signs point to a modest economic boost for a handful of businesses rather than a tide that lifts all boats.
 Rooms at some of the city's hottest hotels and tables at some of its most exclusive restaurants are still available, and seats are still there for the taking at hit Broadway shows like ''Hairspray'' and ''Movin' Out.'' The producer of ''I Am My Own Wife,'' a Pulitzer- and Tony-winning critical hit about a German transvestite, is closing for a week during the convention rather than face many empty seats. Other shows are closing for good. 
 With the prospect of large political protests, extra security and skittish residents planning to leave town, many businesses, far from banking on a boom, are simply hoping that the four-day convention, which starts Aug. 30, will not make what is always a tough week worse. 
 Boston, which played host to the Democratic National Convention last month, set a grim example -- its streets were deserted and its delegates spent little. A research institute there said the convention provided a tenth of the economic boost city officials had promised. 
 Tracy J. Nieporent, marketing director for the New York restaurant group that includes the downtown hotspots Nobu and Tribeca Grill, said, ''Our restaurants aren't going to see a whole lot of activity from it.'' Nobu accepts reservations up to a month in advance and usually fills quickly, even in slow months, Mr. Nieporent said, but seatings are still available for dinner during the convention. ''At this point you could probably get a table,'' he said.
 Christopher Pappas of Dairyland, which supplies specialty foods to more than 3,000 restaurants in the New York area, said he expected ''a nightmare'' because of traffic and security measures. ''Right now we are running about an hour overtime on every truck, and we expect it to get worse,'' he said. ''If you run 100 trucks into Manhattan and it costs about $35 an hour, that's about $3,500 a day you are losing. I am scaring myself just thinking about what it will be like during the convention.''
 City officials have said all along that the convention will help the economy and cause little disruption. They point out that the nearly 50,000 expected visitors is a drop in the bucket compared with the 3 million who come to the city every month, and that they never would have filled all 70,000 hotel rooms, or occupied every Broadway seat and restaurant table. In fact, a lack of disruption has been one of city officials' selling points; they have insisted that anyone who does not go to Midtown will not even notice the political bash.
 Andrew M. Alper, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said that the fear of disruption has been ''way overblown'' and that in the end the convention would be a big success for New York.
 ''I think we are going to have a lot of people in town who have never been to New York before,'' Mr. Alper said. ''We have a great city to show them.''
 There is no question that the convention will have a considerable economic affect. It is already paying the wages of hundreds of workers who are building sets at Madison Square Garden and converting the Farley post office building across Eighth Avenue into a center for 15,000 journalists. Conventiongoers will attend Broadway shows and parties at some of the city's best-known restaurants. Tavern on the Green, for example, is almost completely booked with convention-related parties during what is usually one of its slowest months for private events.
 ''It's fantastic for us,'' said the restaurant's general manager, Michael Desiderio. ''We expect a very busy week.''
 The city host committee has signed up hundreds of businesses to offer special deals to delegates and journalists to coax them out and spend money in the city. 
 ''We are designing ways to make sure the delegates are not just limited to convention center and their hotels,'' said Paul J. Elliott, a spokesman for the host committee. ''We are booking tours, we are facilitating them getting out to the five boroughs and spending their money. The city is making every effort to make sure businesses benefit in as many ways as possible.''
 But there are many unknowns: Will the shuttle buses for the delegates cause taxi drivers to be shut out? Will all the free parties mean that delegates skimp on meals out? Will plays not among the wholesome fare selected for the delegates suffer because their usual audience is reluctant to travel? 
 ''I don't think we are going to see a lot of delegates venturing off Broadway, though I would love it if they did,'' said Virginia P. Louloudes, executive director of the Alliance of Resident Theaters/New York, which represents Off Broadway theaters. ''They will be scheduled for this event or that, shuttled around on a bus.''
 Officials in Boston had said that the Democratic convention would pump $154 million into that city's economy, but it virtually shut down much of the city, strangling businesses that had hoped to profit from the influx. The Beacon Hill Institute, a research organization affiliated with Suffolk University in Boston, found that the convention brought in only $14.8 million, a tenth of what Boston officials had anticipated, though city officials dispute the study's findings, and final figures on hotel occupancy and the like have yet to be tallied.
 The study's author, David G. Tuerck, an economist, said New York was likely to fare better because road closings would be less severe and the city has been encouraging New Yorkers and tourists to stick around during the convention. Other factors are also at play, though. ''New York is going to come out ahead unless there is a disaster of some kind,'' Dr. Tuerck said. ''The wild card is the threat of terrorism, and there is a wild card around protests.''
 While those doing business directly with the city host committee say they will profit handsomely -- putting up delegates, catering parties and busing conventiongoers around -- many businesses are bracing for what they say will be at best a very slow week, or worse, several days of widespread disruption that will diminish their bottom line.
 ''It will probably be just like any late summer week,'' said Adele Gutman, vice president of sales and marketing for HK Hotels, which includes popular boutique lodgings like the Elysee and Gansevoort hotels, several of which still have rooms available. ''You would have hoped the convention would have done more to have impact, but in the end it probably sent as many people away as it brought in.''
 The hotel picture is mixed. A spokesperson for Hotels.com, a Web site that books hotels, said occupancy was slightly higher for the convention week than it was for the comparable week last year. Still, some hotels said delegates were not using as many rooms as they had expected. 
 The 1,015-room New Yorker Hotel, about a block from Madison Square Garden, said its delegate business was 40 percent less than it had anticipated because fewer delegates were bringing their families and more were doubling up, said Kevin H. Smith, the hotel's general manager. Journalists snapped up many of those rooms, though, and while 100 rooms remain empty, Mr. Smith said he expected to fill them eventually.
 Businesses around the Garden, where security will be extremely tight and access restricted, say the convention will cost them dearly.
 ''Who is going to come and shop here?'' said Latif Diagam, who sells purses and shoes from a 500-square-foot store near the arena. ''How will they even get here? I would take a vacation, but I can't afford it. My rent is $5,000 a month.''
 Historically, conventions have been good for the host cities. Organizers of this year's convention point to the 2000 Republican convention in Philadelphia, which generated $345 million in economic activity and raised the city's profile. Any immediate influx of cash is considered far less significant than the opportunity to showcase a city to an international audience and promote it as a tourist and business destination.
 ''The greatest value in hosting the convention is really the promotional opportunity for the city,'' said Henry Miller, a public relations executive who had led the effort to get the Democrats to hold their 1992 convention in New York. ''But in this case there is a lot of controversy and the threat of demonstrations. One question will be, how well does New York's story get out, given that there are these other issues competing for attention? Does that part of economic development resonate effectively?''
 Businesses across the city are hoping that this convention will be like that 1992 Democratic convention, which turned out to be a watershed event in the city's economy, placing New York back on the tourism map after years of battling perceptions that it was a dirty, crime-ridden place too dangerous and unpleasant for a family holiday. 
 Still, many people worry that fears of terrorist attacks, the prospect of huge demonstrations and the presence of a controversial sitting president will make the convention look more like Chicago in 1968, when violent protests over the Vietnam War and racial strife marred the Democratic convention there. 
 Tim Zagat, whose Zagat Survey is a popular guide to restaurants, shopping and nightlife in New York, said much would depend on the behavior of protesters and New Yorkers. 
 ''If the city looks clean and friendly and people have a good time, they will feel it and it will be good for New York in the long run whether that week is profitable or not,'' Mr. Zagat said. ''If they feel like they can't walk across a street without a policeman holding their hand, that will be a different story. I think it is in the interest of every New Yorker and every Democrat that this convention be a success.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Eighth Avenue bridge connecting the Garden and the journalists' center leaves a tight squeeze. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); THEATER (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); RIOTS (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); TRENDS (63%); TERRORISM (59%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Economic Conditions and Trends; Demonstrations and Riots; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Hotels and Motels; Presidential Election of 2004; Restaurants; Theater; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Economic Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; Andrew M Alper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



396 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Dominican Resumes Presidency On Stern Note

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Leonel Fernandez returned to the presidency of this nation after a four-year hiatus on Monday, bracing Dominicans for austerity measures needed to ease an economic crisis that has caused living standards to plummet during the past year. 
 Mr. Fernandez, a lawyer and former university professor, said in a speech at a swearing-in ceremony that he would restrict spending by government agencies, preventing civil servants from using public funds to buy the imported sport utility vehicles that have become symbols here of skewed income distribution, rubbing up against the dilapidated motor scooters that fill the streets of this city. 
 He also said his administration would limit international phone calls by civil servants, among other cost-cutting measures intended to reduce a budget shortfall that has depleted resources to import fuel and generate electricity. In a jab against his predecessor, Hipolito Mejia, a populist businessman against whom Mr. Fernandez won a landslide victory in May, he deplored the ''absence of seriousness in everything.'' 
 Almost immediately, however, critics called on Mr. Fernandez to provide greater specifics on his plans to reinvigorate a political system hobbled by corruption scandals associated with a series of bank failures last year. No one has been imprisoned for involvement in the scandals, which cost the government the equivalent of a fifth of gross domestic product in bailouts for depositors.
 ''We don't have anyone to blame but ourselves, since the current economic frailty is the result of corruption and the perception that bad behavior is rewarded with impunity,'' said Miguel Ceara-Hatton, a political analyst and economist. ''The president has a large amount of political capital right now, but he has to use it quickly and wisely. He could start by throwing a few bad apples in jail.''
 Mr. Fernandez, 50, who was raised in New York before returning to Santo Domingo to attend college, signaled a desire to confront corrupt practices, but emphasized Monday an urgent need to re-engage regional leaders and international lending institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
 Mr. Fernandez reached out to President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela in a trip to Caracas last month, seeking to preserve an agreement allowing the Dominican Republic to import oil on favorable terms. And Mr. Fernandez was scheduled to meet Monday evening with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil in an effort to strengthen ties with that country, Latin America's largest.
 The I.M.F. is also negotiating with Mr. Fernandez's cabinet to determine whether it should reopen a $600 million aid package that it suspended last year amid criticism of the government's handling of electricity shortages. The pressing need for foreign financial aid stands in contrast to the first time Mr. Fernandez ascended to the presidency, in 1996, when the Dominican Republic was promising to become one of the fastest growing countries in Latin America. 
 Now the comparisons with other countries in the region tend to focus on how a bloated public bureaucracy has prevented the government from meeting basic obligations like providing emergency food supplies and basic health care. The country's central bank, for instance, has close to 1,800 employees, nearly four times the people employed at the central bank of Mexico, a much larger country.
 Much of Santo Domingo geared up on Monday for street parties to celebrate the start of Mr. Fernandez's term, though not everyone was enthusiastic. ''Let's be realistic, politics in this country is for the worst elements of society,''said Julio Facundo Esteves, 51, a carpenter, who nevertheless turned out to the Malecon, an oceanfront avenue of hotels and casinos closed to traffic for a parade. ''The last government was trash and I'm not sure Leonel will be much different.''
 Mindy Luisa Rodriguez, a 22-year-old secretary seated on a bench next to Mr. Esteves, saw things differently. ''Leonel is more intelligent than the alternative,'' she said. ''We're ready for a little bit of happiness, a little bit of relief.''
 Relief from a downturn that has led many Dominicans to flee in rickety boats to Puerto Rico is something many here emphasize, after more than 50 migrants died in an attempted crossing this month. One prominent observer contrasted that voyage with the Dominican Republic's image among rich industrialized countries as a playground for the prosperous. 
 ''Europeans and North Americans save the entire year to be able to enjoy our beaches and hotels for 10 days,'' said Bernardo Vega, a former ambassador to the United States. ''Meanwhile, thousands of Dominicans, whose reality begins at the edge of those hotels, save the entire year to risk death on boats to flee this country.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At the National Assembly, Leonel Fernandez, the incoming Dominican president, shook hands with the departing president, Hipolito Mejia. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CORRUPTION (87%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ETHICS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); SCANDALS (71%); TRENDS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Ethics; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Inaugurations; Automobiles ; Government Employees; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (56%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%) Simon Romero; Leonel (Pres) Fernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Dominican Republic ; Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic); Dominican Republic 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



397 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Illinois to Help Residents Buy Drugs From Canada, and Afar

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Opening a new front in the fight over the cost of prescription drugs, Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois is preparing to help residents of his state buy cheaper medicines from Britain and Ireland, as well as Canada.
 Aides to Mr. Blagojevich, a Democrat, said he would announce on Tuesday that Illinois would create a program, accessible on the Internet, so people could buy 100 of the most common drugs for 25 percent to 50 percent less than in most American drugstores. 
 Federal authorities say it is illegal to buy drugs from outside the United States, but since early this year, officials in at least four other states -- Minnesota, New Hampshire, North Dakota and Wisconsin -- have set up Web sites that link residents to Canadian pharmacies. Expanding the market to Britain and Ireland, Mr. Blagojevich's aides said, will spread demand beyond Canada, where some suppliers have reported shortages of certain drugs.
 ''The drug companies have pretty aggressively been shutting supplies to Canada, and we want to ensure that the supply will meet the demand,'' Abby Ottenhoff, a spokeswoman for Mr. Blagojevich, said. ''Ultimately, they can't shut down supplies to the world to keep prices high in the United States.'' 
 William K. Hubbard, an associate commissioner for the Food and Drug Administration, said Mr. Blagojevich's plan ''sounds like yet another expansion of an effort to import unapproved drugs from foreign countries that will be illegal under U.S. law and will raise serious concerns on the part of the F.D.A.''
 The notion that Illinois was reaching even beyond Canada, Mr. Hubbard said, made matters worse. ''The more they go into other countries, the more concerns we have,'' he said.
 Illinois' move is the latest in what has become a political and economic standoff over how Americans buy their drugs: the F.D.A. and drug companies contend that medications from other countries may be counterfeit, mislabeled or otherwise unsafe, while a growing number of local and state officials argue that their residents must be allowed to buy the least expensive drugs.
 Illinois plans to contract with a Canadian company to create a clearinghouse of more than 35 approved pharmacies and wholesalers in Canada, Ireland and Britain. The state hopes to first reach the estimated 2.8 million Illinois residents who have no prescription drug coverage. If only 100,000 of them bought drugs through the clearinghouse, they would save as much as $29 million a year, Ms. Ottenhoff said. 
 Wanda Moebius, a spokeswoman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, which represents drug makers, said Illinois would not be able to guarantee that drugs said to be from Britain or Ireland really came from there. ''We have serious safety concerns,'' Ms. Moebius said.
 The Illinois program is designed for state residents only. Customers will have to provide billing and shipping addresses in the state.
 Minnesota, the first state to start a Web site, in late January, had 117,000 visitors to its site by the end of July. Other states are using different methods to press for change. Vermont authorities have announced that they plan to sue the F.D.A. for rejecting their plan to bring Canadian drugs to their residents.
 ''On this issue, you can see the waves lapping up at the fortress,'' said Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics. ''The question is, What will they do about these waves?'' 
 The F.D.A. considers it illegal to buy drugs, or cause the sale of drugs, from other countries, but so far the agency has not taken legal action against states with Web sites that help people get drugs from abroad.
 Mr. Hubbard said he could not say whether the agency might take legal action against Illinois because he had not seen details of its plan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DEREGULATION (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (73%); WHOLESALERS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicine and Health; Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Consumer Protection; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Drugstores; Shortages

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%) Food and Drug Administration; Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: Monica Davey; Rod R (Gov) Blagojevich

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (95%); IRELAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Illinois; Canada; Great Britain; Ireland; Minnesota; New Hampshire; North Dakota; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



398 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Boost Film Industry In New York

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
State lawmakers have approved the first tax credit to benefit film and television productions in New York, and many in the industry say the incentive will help lure more film productions to the city and the state and counter the flight of film jobs to Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal.
 Passed as part of the budget approved last Wednesday by the Senate and Assembly, the legislation commits the state to contributing $25 million annually for four years -- a total of $100 million -- in offering a 10 percent tax credit on the so-called below-the-line production costs, largely for blue-collar technicians and crew members. Actors' wages and the cost of other creative work like scriptwriting are not included. 
 In addition, the measure would permit New York City to contribute as much as an additional $12.5 million annually to the tax credit program, ''sweetening the pot and helping to level the playing field for the city,'' said Michael N. Gianaris, a Queens assemblyman who vigorously pushed for the tax credits. 
 Under the provisions of the new legislation, companies shooting 75 percent of their productions in New York State would be eligible to apply for benefits under the first-come, first-served program. It would apply only to film and television productions, not commercials. 
 The incentive package awaits the signature of Gov. George E. Pataki as part of the overall state budget. Although he has said he will veto portions of the bill, his office was involved in the final language of the film-industry legislation and he is not likely to oppose it, according to several people with knowledge of the legislation who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 The approval of the tax credit ''would counter runaway productions,'' said Stuart Match Suna, president of Silvercup Studios in Long Island City, where series including ''The Sopranos'' and ''Hope and Faith'' are made. ''It will help to counter the benefit programs in Canada, and make us more competitive with California.''
 Douglas C. Steiner, chairman of Steiner Studios in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, which is scheduled to open its $128 million operation in October, said that he expected the legislation ''to generate a billion dollars' worth of production.'' 
 Filmmaking in New York City is already a $5.1 billion industry that employs more than 100,000 people and drives 5,000 production businesses, according to the Boston Consulting Group. But while many producers like to shoot in New York, financial incentives and lower costs elsewhere often prove too tempting. 
 In 1998, Canada enacted its production-services tax credit, and offers producers national and provincial tax credits that can make nearly half of the below-the-line costs deductible. As a result, Canada won such all-American productions as the Oscar-winning film version of ''Chicago,'' and the television movie ''Rudy!'' about Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
 Film and movie production was a $4.93 billion industry in Canada in 2003, a 4 percent increase over the previous year. About $1.9 billion came from foreign producers, of which 85 percent came from the United States, 8 percent more than in 2002. 
 The United States Department of Commerce, in studying the migration of film and television production, said the shift to Canada was responsible for most of the decline in direct and indirect American production expenditures. 
 However, the number of production shooting days in New York City, 19,309, was up 30 percent last year over the year before, and production is on track to equal last year's performance. 
 Thirty states in the United States have some incentives for film production, according to the Motion Picture Association of America. Several states provide tax-reduction programs, including Louisiana and New Mexico, which have offered 15 percent credits, and Pennsylvania, with 20 percent. 
 Many producers have a preference for the backdrops, skilled labor pool, and artistic stimulation of working in New York, but it has become common to do ''splits'' -- shooting exteriors in New York, but then shooting the interiors in Canada. This can amount to savings of $5 million or more on a $50 million film, some producers have said.
 The tax incentive, therefore, is an enticement to producers ''to spend all their production dollars in New York, not just the location shooting,'' said Mr. Steiner. Or, as Assemblyman Gianaris put it, ''This is our salvo back across the border, saying we'll fight for these jobs and this economic activity.'' 
 Canadian officials, however, do not seem concerned about the prospect of tax breaks in New York. ''We don't see it as a threat at all,'' said Guy Mayson, president of the Canadian Film and Television Production Association, a nonprofit trade group that represents nearly 400 independent producers. ''This is fair competition. Our incentive has been well established, is very attractive, and we think that many producers will want to come here.'' 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Mayson said, the New York incentive ''is something that we have to pay attention to,'' adding, ''we will have to look at our own incentives and make sure they still remain competitive.'' 
 Aside from Assemblyman Gianaris, among those also heading the tax-credit legislation were Assemblyman Joseph R. Lentol and State Senator Martin J. Golden, both of Brooklyn. 
 The Steiner Studios in the Navy Yard initially pushed for the legislation in association with incentives given to Empire Development Zones, which are areas, including the Navy Yard, that can apply for subsidies. 
 Their lobbying became a collaboration with an effort headed by Katherine Oliver, commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting, along with other film facilities and producers. Ms. Oliver said it would be premature to comment on the legislation.
 An aide to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the mayor would seek to participate in the incentive program if the governor signs the legislation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); VETO (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); RELOCATIONS (64%) Motion Pictures; Television; Tax Credits; Law and Legislation ; Taxation; Labor; Motion Pictures; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Glenn Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City; Canada; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



399 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Georgia's New Leader Baffles U.S. and Russia Alike

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia, Aug. 11 

 BODY:
From the moment he took office in January, Mikhail Saakashvili, the New York-trained lawyer turned president of Georgia, has rushed his nation along an agenda of ambitious design.
 Drawing on public support after chasing his predecessor, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, from power, Mr. Saakashvili has moved against corruption, pledged to revive Georgia's economy, steered his government closer to the West and vowed to unify the fractured country.
 Georgians have found his energy and momentum compelling. His popularity remains high. 
 But in recent weeks his populist ride has hit bumps on the central question of the Georgian state: reunification with two breakaway regions, South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
 Mr. Saakashvili, 36, has pressed forcefully for reunification, increasing tensions in both regions. After a Georgian Coast Guard vessel fired on a ship approaching the Abkhazian coast, he announced that he had ordered the sinking of unauthorized shipping. He then darkly suggested that Russian tourists would do well to stay away.
 Critics immediately said the president was showing his inexperience and flirting with war. ''I think it's no longer a question of 'Will he blunder?''' said Dr. Christopher Waters, a Georgia specialist at the Center of Euro-Asian Studies at the University of Reading in England. ''He already has blundered.''
 The path to reunification is potentially perilous. Russia and the United States have competing interests in the Caucasus, a strategic intersection of Asia and Europe, and Russia has openly supported the separatists. One Russian newspaper compared Mr. Saakashvili to Fidel Castro -- a leader of a tiny nation who has been giving larger powers sleepless nights.
 Why Mr. Saakashvili risked inflaming tensions with references to violence remains an open question. But now that he has everyone paying attention, a simple question surrounds him. What will he do next?
 Mr. Saakashvili, for his part, speaks with the air of destiny. In a meeting with journalists and analysts at his residence on Aug. 10, he said it was inevitable that the two regions would return to Georgia.
 Because both are contained within Georgia's internationally recognized borders, he said, no other outcome can be acceptable. ''It's not only about Georgia,'' he said. ''It's about world order.''
 Aware of the high tensions, he has repeatedly said that he will not push his country to war and that he intends to move in stages. But he has also said Georgia's military units, even if they become engaged in combat, can show restraint -- a sign that he accepts that a certain amount of violence is probable.
 ''It's not like they will shoot at us, we will shoot back and the war will start,'' he said. ''We know how to control ourselves.''
 Mr. Saakashvili inherited three renegade republics when he took office. He met swift success when one of them, Ajaria, ended its secession in May.
 The president said he would now concentrate on South Ossetia, then move to the more difficult matter of Abkhazia, a larger and more heavily armed region whose leadership is unequivocally against unification.
 In South Ossetia, Mr. Saakashvili's government is pursuing a mix of political enticements and hardening of the borders to curtail smuggling, which keeps the region alive.
 He has given its landlocked families vacations in a resort on the Black Sea and offered to repair schools, pay teachers' salaries and provide computers for classrooms for the approaching school year.
 Faced with both firmness and offers of civility, the Ossetians will have difficulty holding out through the winter, he said. But precisely what might come afterward is not clear. Abkhazia would still await a solution, and its leaders have taken an uncompromising stance. ''We are ready for war,'' said Nugzar Ashuba, speaker of Abkhazia's Parliament.
 When asked his plan for Abkhazia, Mr. Saakashvili essentially said he was stumped. ''Frankly, I don't have a direct answer,'' he said.
 Fresh dangers flash almost daily.
 Political delegations from Russia and Georgia alike claim to have come under small-arms fire while traveling near South Ossetia in the last two weeks, and the Georgians have complained that Russian warplanes have intruded on Georgian airspace above the Caucasus ridge.
 On Aug. 11, three people were killed in South Ossetia in what appears to have been an artillery attack. In Abkhazia, the leadership held a call-up exercise for reservists in July and said last week that if provoked further it might sink Georgia's coast guard vessels.
 [There was some relief on Saturday, when Georgia and South Ossetia agreed to a cease-fire. But on Sunday both sides claimed to have been fired on anew, and on Monday two Georgian soldiers were killed, apparently in a mortar attack.]
 Whatever its risks, Mr. Saakashvili's course has been part of a political calculus, some analysts say. ''For him it is was very important to show that he is the man who will change Georgia, change the status quo,'' said Dr. Alexander Rondeli, president of the Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies.
 Dr. Martha Brill Olcott, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said the push against the separatists was necessary to lend him authority to tackle other problems, including reviving the economy.
 ''As he goes from sort of the nine-day wonder to a president, he has to make himself a credible figure,'' Dr. Olcott said. ''That leaves aside the issue of whether he could have handled it better. I think he could have.''
 Others are less sanguine, saying the risks may be less carefully considered than what might be expected from a head of state. Dr. Waters noted that the president, an inveterate talker who warms to any audience, is prone to thinking out loud, a trait he called ''politics by stream of consciousness.''
 Russia, the backer of the separatists and their potential protector in war, has been presenting an array of mixed signals for Mr. Saakashvili to interpret, meeting warmly with the Georgians at the top level while members of the Russian Parliament and military officers have made inflammatory remarks.
 Mr. Saakashvili said that Russia's position would be critical to finding the way toward reunifying the country, but that efforts at substantive dialogue had been met with delay. He said he had asked the Russians to provide a list of their concerns but had received no response.
 ''I don't even know with what we are dealing,'' he said. ''What are the issues?''
 Richard M. Miles, the American ambassador to Georgia, said in an interview last week that the United States had urged the potential combatants to disengage militarily and work toward negotiations. Washington has been Georgia's patron, funneling it $1.2 billion in aid in the past decade. With the possibility of conflict, the players here have been trying to judge Washington's stance.
 The Abkhazian government's hardened language speaks of the official calculation to date: Washington will back the young Georgian president only so far. ''I don't think American soldiers would fight for Georgia's unity,'' said Mr. Ashuba, the Abkhazian legislator.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ethnic Georgian children prepared to be evacuated from the village of Eregvi in South Ossetia on Thursday. (Photo by Vano Shlamov/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Mikhail Saakashvili, the new leader in Tbilisi, is taking on separatists, increasing tensions.Map of Georgia higlighting Tbilisi

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (74%); MARINE SHIPPING (74%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); WRITERS (64%); CORRUPTION (57%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Public Opinion; Ships and Shipping; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (92%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) C J Chivers; Mikhail (Pres) Saakashvili

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Georgia (Georgian Republic); South Ossetia (Georgian Republic); Abkhazia (Georgian Republic); Russia; Georgia (Georgian Republic)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



400 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Climate Shift Threatens California

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
A scientific study released on Monday presents an alarming view of climate changes in California, finding that by the end of the century rising temperatures could lead to a sevenfold increase in heat-related deaths in Los Angeles and imperil the state's wine and dairy industries.
 The study, published in the online version of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, offers the most detailed projection yet of changes in California as temperatures rise around the world because of building concentrations of heat-trapping gases.
 Under one of two scenarios, in which fossil fuel use continues at its present pace, the study determined that summertime high temperatures could increase by 15 degrees in some inland cities, putting their climate on par with that of Death Valley now. That scenario also foresaw a reduction of 73 percent to 90 percent in the snow pack in the Sierra Nevada, resulting in disrupted water supplies from the San Francisco Bay Area to the Central Valley. 
 Even in the second scenario, which assumed significant increases in the use of renewable energy like wind and solar power, the study concluded that fossil fuel emissions could push average high temperatures up by four to six degrees -- the difference, one author said, between the temperature in Yosemite National Park and downtown Sacramento.
 The study warned that the higher temperatures could have devastating consequences for wine grapes, which could ripen more quickly and be of poorer quality, and for cows, which could produce less milk. In cities like Los Angeles, it found, the number of days of extreme heat could increase by four to eight times. It projected that heat-related deaths in Los Angeles, which it said averaged 165 annually during the 1990's, could double or triple under the moderate scenario and grow as much as seven times under the harsher one.
 The scientists said that California was chosen for the study because of its range of climates and the predominance of industries, like agriculture, that are dependent on climatic conditions. The state's economic heft -- by some measures it is the fifth largest economy in the world -- and its history of environmental activism were also considerations.
 ''California alone can't address the emissions problem, but California is in a position of leadership,'' one of the study's authors, Peter C. Frumhoff of the Union of Concerned Scientists, said in a teleconference.
 The study was conducted by 19 scientists from several universities and research institutions, including Stanford University, the University of California and the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. It was financed by a variety of foundations as well as the Department of Energy and the California Energy Commission.
 Several of the scientists warned against dismissing the findings as overstated. ''We have been studying this for 30 years, and the conclusions are getting increasingly clear, and increasingly consistent,'' said Dr. Stephen H. Schneider, a climate scientist at Stanford. He added, ''We think this problem has too high a chance of happening and in negative incarnations for us to ignore it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (93%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (90%); WEATHER (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (77%); WRITERS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); OCEANOGRAPHY (73%); WIND ENERGY (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%) Weather; Weather

PERSON: Dean E Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) California; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

 
