

1 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: A Home for Your Gear, And a Place to Play With It

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
MICHAEL HUNT was tired of keeping his fishing boat and Mercedes convertible under tarps next to his house in Post Falls, Idaho. His prized recreational vehicle was slowly falling apart after spending a few winters outside. With no room left in his garage, he wasn't sure what to do.
 Instead of selling his house, moving to a warmer state or getting rid of his toys, he bought a storage condominium a few miles away in Coeur d'Alene, where he could keep everything under one roof. Then he bought another one for his home office and business files. Three years and $119,000 later, his storage units have become a second home, a place where he plays games with his children, works and shelters his vehicles.
 ''I have fun when I'm here and so do my kids,'' Mr. Hunt said of his makeshift getaway. ''Our house is a toy box, and this is much quieter.'' 
 People like Mr. Hunt, with more toys than space, are spending tens of thousands of dollars to keep their weekend wheels and gear in high style. In response, a growing number of self-storage units are ditching the bright lights, long hallways and sterile atmosphere to become destinations unto themselves. 
 Some, like the units Mr. Hunt owns at GarageTown USA in Coeur d'Alene, are bought and sold like homes and come with cable television, high-speed Internet, individual thermostats and even clubhouses.
 ''Everybody has stuff,'' Carri Berglund, GarageTown USA's national sales and marketing director, said as she was showing off the units in Coeur d'Alene, one of the company's 19 sites. ''This is what you don't want in your house.'' 
 These large storage areas, which top out at 2,000 square feet, hold not only sports cars and skiing equipment, but also pool tables and personal gyms, or as in Mr. Hunt's case, a batting cage. 
 From the outside, the Idaho garages look like industrial warehouses with metal siding, roofs and roll-up doors. Step inside, and the units can resemble an art gallery or rec room. They have become places where people want to linger for a televised football game or a poker game in the clubhouse or just hang out with other condo owners. 
 At the clubhouse in Coeur d'Alene, a leather sofa and chairs sit near a kitchen with granite countertops. In September, Ms. Berglund brought in caterers and turned one unit into a buffet line, another into a wine-tasting area, and served dessert in another. Over 250 people came to the event, which ran until midnight. Some members have held summer barbecues. 
 Every state in the country has self-storage units, but most of those are rentals. Those storage units sold as condos are typically found only in spots with second homes, resorts or heavy winters where people have a lot of winter gear. 
 Some, like Airport Garages in Steamboat Springs, Colo., sell units at small airports where second-home owners can store their planes, cars, R.V.'s and winter gear. In Ohio, Storage Condominiums designs its garages for out-of-towners who want to keep their boats and R.V.'s around nearby Lake Erie. Premier Storage Condominiums in Yuma, Ariz., caters to R.V. owners who want to keep their rigs in Arizona for winter travel and offers 60-foot wide driveways, dump stations and extra long spaces.
 With more storage options to choose from -- there is now enough space to cover Manhattan three times, according to the Self Storage Association in Alexandria, Va. -- rental companies are also adding amenities to stand out. 
 At Hollywood Storage Center, a rental facility in Newbury Park, Calif., there are movie posters on the walls, wine-tasting rooms, a kitchen and even a post office. For Christmas, there were free photos with Santa Claus with cocoa and chocolate chip cookies.
 ''We've done all kinds of wild things here. It generates more traffic for us and that means more storage units that we'll be able to rent,'' said Jay Sundher, who owns the 300,000-square-foot facility. ''All these things get people in a good mood, and it becomes a place where they want to hang out with their friends.''
 At the condo garages, spaces, which generally cost from $68,000 to $200,000, can range from simple metal shells with concrete floors to spacious units with epoxy floors and built-in mezzanines. GarageTown's units in Coeur d'Alene cost about $57,000 to $85,950. 
 ''This can be a cheaper alternative than building on your own property,'' said Chris Sonne, a managing director at Cushman Wakefield in Irvine, Calif., who tracks the self-storage market.
 For many owners, the garages are a bargain. Some have downsized and no longer have a basement or garage big enough to store all their gear. Others live in subdivisions that do not allow them to build sheds or shops. 
 After Angela and Shawn Quinn sold their five-acre spread and moved into a subdivision with such restrictions, they immediately started looking for storage space for their motorcycles, boats, Jet Skis and a convertible. They eventually bought a 960-square-foot garage for about $70,000 in 2006.
 ''With the cost of commercial real estate so high, it was more economical to buy a GarageTown unit,'' said Mrs. Quinn, also of Post Falls. ''We would have paid more in a monthly rental fee, like $500, than owning this.''
 Like a residential condominium, the garages come with deeds, property taxes, utility bills and monthly homeowner fees. At GarageTown's Coeur d'Alene and Spokane locations, owners pay $32.50 a month for snow removal, water, lawn care and a cleaning service for the clubhouse and bathrooms.
 The units have become popular with R.V. owners who are getting squeezed out of subdivisions and rental lots. Many new home subdivisions prohibit recreational vehicles outright or restrict street and driveway parking. Parking a big rig on the street is often tough, especially in California, which bans street parking for more than 48 hours. 
 ''Even if they do want to store them, they can't find a spot,'' said Sue Bray, executive director of the Good Sam Club, an R.V. owners' club based in Ventura, Calif., which helps owners find long-term parking. ''The ones around here are full.''
 Some condo garage owners just want to declutter their homes. 
 Vonda Manley, who splits her time between Coeur d'Alene and Southern California, moved her Jet Skis, business files and supplies into her GarageTown unit so she could turn her three-car garage at home into a recreational room. Since buying her 1,152-square-foot space in June for $82,000, she's added baseboards and epoxy to her garage floor to make it cozier. In the summer, she plans to open the doors and turn it into an indoor-outdoor room overlooking the Snake River.
 ''I can keep the toys and mess over here,'' said Ms. Manley, who lives a few blocks away, ''and use my garage for something fun.''
 At another GarageTown site, nearby in Spokane Valley, Dean Cameron, a publishing and marketing agent for artists, has set up a gallery, showcasing his collection of Northwestern artists. Inside his space, which he bought last January for $84,000, he also keeps his 1961 ChryslerNewport. He's in the middle of building a loft, painting a mural on the floor and rehanging his art from the walls on chains, and expects it all to be done by this spring. He's also planning to hold parties for his wholesale customers in the clubhouse and invite them over to look at his art.
 PREVIOUSLY, he kept the art in a separate room at home, while trying to keep it away from his 5-year-old niece, who loves to draw. And his car was stuck outside under a tarp that was always blowing over in windstorms. 
 ''Every time we had a windstorm, I'd have a coronary,'' he said. ''The security of this unit makes me sleep better and it keeps my wife happy.'' 
 Mr. Hunt, who is retired, realized he could do something better with his 1,152-square-foot storage space than just use it as a storage locker for his R.V. and car. He pulled both vehicles out, stashed them in his other garage and built a batting cage and gym where he could better train young baseball players. (He coaches a local high school baseball team.) After installing 16-foot-tall wood beams, wrapping them with netting and buying a high-speed pitching machine, he was in business. On a recent Saturday, he was teaching Riley Denny, 12, how to hit fastballs.
 ''Owning it gives you choices,'' said Mr. Hunt, showing a visitor around as the crack of the bat echoed and the pitching machine shot out balls at 90 miles an hour. ''You get to decide what to do with your space.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SURF AND TURF: GarageTown USA in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.(pg. F1)
 ATTACHED: GarageTown USA in Spokane Valley, Wash., above, and in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, with a clubhouse, left, and Michael Hunt's setup, top.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK MASTIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); SELF STORAGE (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); POKER (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); SKIING (62%); CATERING SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (93%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



2 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: China Inflation Exacting a Toll Across the U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
China's latest export is inflation. After falling for years, prices of Chinese goods sold in the United States have risen for the last eight months.
 Soaring energy and raw material costs, a falling dollar and new business rules here are forcing Chinese factories to increase the prices of their exports, according to analysts and Western companies doing business here.
 The rise was a modest 2.4 percent over the last year. But even that small amount, combined with higher energy and food costs that also reflect China's growing demands on global resources, contributed to a rise in inflation in the United States. Inflation in the United States was 4.1 percent in 2007, up from 2.5 percent in 2006. 
 Because of new cost pressures here, American consumers could see prices increase by as much as 10 percent this year on specific products -- including toys, clothing, footwear and other consumer goods -- just as the United States faces a possible recession. 
 In the longer term, higher costs in China could spell the end of an era of ultra-cheap goods, as well as the beginning of China's rise from the lowest rungs of global manufacturing. 
 Economists have been warning for months that this country's decade-long role of keeping a lid on global inflation was on the wane.
 ''China has been the world's factory and the anchor of the global disconnect between rising material prices and lower consumer prices,'' said Dong Tao, an economist for Credit Suisse. ''But its heyday is over. We're going to see higher prices.''
 Chinese imports constitute 7.5 percent of spending by Americans on consumer goods, but they make up much bigger shares of several popular categories, including about 80 percent of toys, 85 percent of footwear, and 40 percent of clothing. 
 Even when the market share held by Chinese goods is relatively small, their low prices put pressure on other producers to keep costs down. 
 Whether Chinese factories will succeed in making wholesalers pay more for their goods and whether retailers will be able to pass much of their higher costs on to American consumers is unclear, analysts say. 
 But companies that operate in China or buy from here are already reeling from mounting cost pressures that they say will weaken their profits and could disrupt their supply chains. 
 Those supply lines were already called into question by large-scale recalls of Chinese exports last year, involving everything from toys to pet food to tires. 
 ''This is what I call the perfect storm,'' said Alan G. Hassenfeld, the chairman of Hasbro, one of the world's largest toy makers, during a recent visit to China. ''We've got higher labor costs and labor shortages, plastic prices have gone way up and we're doing more safety testing.''
 While no reliable figures exist on average Chinese wages, experts say that factory wages have risen 80 percent or more in many coastal areas in recent years, with the lowest wage about $125 a month. 
 Some of the current cost pressures are actually by design -- Beijing's design.
 After years of complaints from the United States and Europe about China's growing trade surplus, authorities here have removed incentives that once favored exporters of cheap goods. 
 Starting last June, for instance, China removed or reduced tax rebates on hundreds of items for export, including toys, apparel, leather, wood and other goods, effectively taxing those industries. 
 But the actions are also part of Beijing's desire to move China higher up the global manufacturing chain -- away from the least- finished products, like plastic children's toys, toward more advanced exports that require skilled labor, like small electronics and even automobiles.
 Whatever the government's motivation, many Chinese exporters say the timing of the rebate cut was disastrous. Their factories had been struggling to cope with problems that included power shortages, higher raw material costs, rising wages and inflation in other areas.
 For instance, the cost of some types of plastic has risen more than 30 percent in the last few years because of higher oil or petroleum costs. Plastic is a major component in toys and other consumer goods. 
 Many Chinese factory owners say a tough new labor law, which went into effect on Jan. 1, complicates the hiring and firing process and threatens to raise labor costs even more, at a time when parts of the country are already plagued with labor shortages. Some factory owners say there have already been strikes and other turmoil over the interpretation of the new law and how it should be applied.
 ''We have seen lots of brawls between employees and employers,'' said Hong Jiasheng, vice president of the Taiwan Merchant Association, which represents investors in China. ''We think the enactment of the new labor law is too hasty.''
 Analysts say Beijing is also stepping up its enforcement of environmental laws, putting added pressure on factories that had long skirted regulations. Adhering to those often ignored rules increases cost, too.
 These changes take place against the backdrop of a dollar falling modestly against the Chinese currency. The dollar is down about 7.6 percent in the last year against the yuan and is expected to fall further this year.
 The weaker the dollar, the more expensive Chinese and other goods become when their prices are converted to dollars. 
 All in all, toy producers are among the hardest hit by the changes in law and prices. They rely on large quantities of plastic. They face heightened regulatory scrutiny after the product safety scandals last year. Indeed, some toy factories went bankrupt, squeezed between rising local costs and pressures from foreign customers to deliver a better product at an even lower price.
 ''I've been in the toy industry for almost 20 years, but these past two years have been the hardest time,'' said Guo Jinshen, manager of the Fenggang Fengyuan Plastic Toys Company. ''Costs are rising, there are recalls, stricter regulation, more complicated inspection -- all these things make it difficult.''
 To reduce costs, some factory owners are considering moving to inland China, where wages are lower, or to other parts of Asia, like Vietnam and Indonesia.
 Li & Fung, one of the biggest companies for supplying products worldwide, says its customers are already responding to Chinese inflation.
 ''There's a shift in sourcing driven by higher prices in China,'' says Bruce Rockowitz, president at Li & Fung. ''We've already seen a big move in furniture to Indonesia.''
 But while relocating production to cheaper countries could keep prices low for Western consumer goods, moving factories and complex supply chains is difficult. Such changes can take years and cost millions of dollars.
 In the meantime, makers of toys, apparel and footwear -- highly labor-intensive industries -- are being forced to consider raising prices even as growth in the United States slows, a rare confluence of events not seen in decades.
 Companies that began outsourcing production to China in the 1990s mostly benefited from lower costs, which translated into both higher corporate profits and lower consumer prices. Now, many Western companies have to rethink pricing.
 ''Companies are now ordering for the spring of 2009,'' says Nate Herman, director of international trade at the American Apparel and Footwear Association, based in Arlington, Va., that represents some big clothing and footwear makers. ''Factories are coming back and asking for 20, 30, 40, 50 percent price increases.''
 Will importers pass those costs on to consumers? ''It's going to be hard to avoid some increase,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoes from China, like those made at Diamond Standard Footwear in Dongguan, above, could cost 10 percent more this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS) (pg. A8) GRAPH: PRICE PRESSURE: Inflation has been rising rapidly in China and is creeping up in the United States. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg. A8) Graph showing the rise of inflation in China versus the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); PLASTICS MARKETS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); RETAILERS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); PET FOODS (70%); LABOR SHORTAGES (60%); PLASTICS (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



3 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Highways Of Snow

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
STEVE RUSHFORD had been riding his snowmobile all morning, and by 11 a.m. both his vehicle and stomach were in need of fuel. But first there was a more pressing issue. 
 ''Hey, what town is this?'' Mr. Rushford asked as he strode into the Lake Parker General Store in West Glover, Vt., his boots tracking snow on the wood-plank floor. ''Are there a lot of good places to eat nearby?'' 
 Similar scenes play out every winter weekend at the store, which, despite its remote location on a windy rural road, sits at a major intersection -- at least major for snowmobilers traversing Vermont's trail system. 
 Each winter thousands of miles of snow-covered fields, forests and mountains in Vermont are transformed into a highway system for snowmobilers, complete with stop signs, road numbers and speed limits. 
 More than 6,000 miles of trails crisscross the state, offering sweeping views and wildlife. Woven in is a network of gas stations, restaurants, hotels and repair shops that makes it easy to spend a weekend touring the state on its snow-covered byways. 
 ''You get up, eat breakfast, go out and enjoy the Vermont scenery, stop for lunch, have a good time and then have a few drinks when it's all over,'' said Ray Wodatch of Meriden, Conn., who came up with his son and some friends to snowmobile for the weekend. 
 After two winters with little snowfall and little snowmobiling, riders -- and businesses that depend on them -- got their wish this year. Vermont had an uncommon amount of snow in December (Burlington got nearly four feet). The snow gave the snowmobile season its earliest good start in years and is making some snowmobile trails just as busy as major roads on weekends. 
 ''All the trails link out to one another,'' said Sean Sheridan of West Suffield, Conn., who spent the weekend snowmobiling with his son, Connor, 10. ''If you want to go somewhere else, you just break off to another trail.'' The pair stopped at the store in West Glover to fill up their vehicles and planned to ride 30 or so miles more before heading back. ''You stay to the right, you abide by the signs,'' Mr. Sheridan said. ''It's just like being on a street.'' 
 Nowhere in Vermont is snowmobiling more popular than in the Northeast Kingdom, the state's most rural area. The hum of snowmobile engines is often all that can be heard on a back road, and their headlights gliding across the open fields and frozen ponds at night are unmistakable.
 ''This is still one of the last open areas,'' said Merle Young Sr., a fifth-generation resident of West Glover who jokingly chides flatlanders, or non-native Vermonters, who come into the store. ''We're not squished in by urban sprawl.
 ''The Northeast Kingdom is what it is.'' 
 And nowhere else do businesses like the store rely so heavily on snowmobile traffic to get them through the winter. 
 ''They're most of our business in the winter,'' said Phil Young, owner of the general store. The store's restaurant, the Parker Pie Company, which serves up buffalo chicken pizzas, subs and housemade apple pies, often sees lines of snowmobilers out the door on Saturday nights. During the day snowmobilers like Mr. Rushford pop in and out, filling up on gas, sipping coffee and chewing the fat with Mr. Young and others. 
 ''It's great out there,'' said Manville Powers Jr. of Brownington, Vt., who filled up his snowmobile and came into the store with his son, Manville III, to buy a ginger ale. ''We're going to go cruise, make a big loop. The trails are out in the open, the wilderness, and it's what to do up here.'' 
 The store sits at the junction of Routes 122 and 16, a perfect position on trails that lead snowmobilers toward some of the state's hotbeds of snowmobiling. Route 122 leads south toward Burke and north toward Jay, a town known for some of the state's best mountain riding. 
 ''I don't have the faintest idea of how to get here by car, only by snowmobile,'' said Eric Favreau, 28, of Franklin, Vt., who grabbed a sandwich at the Jay Country Store while snowmobiling with a friend on a recent Friday night. ''It gives you an entirely different view of Vermont.'' 
 Route 16 leads east toward Island Pond, which many say is the snowmobile capital of Vermont, with its flat, open spaces and frozen ponds to cross. 
 Snowmobiles far outnumber cars in Island Pond, with dozens of them parked in an open area next to the frozen pond and a handful more in an adjacent gas station. The windows of Valentine's Restaurant and Pub, with ''Welcome Snowmobilers'' painted in white, beckon nearby. 
 Inside just about everyone sitting down to eat is a snowmobiler getting ready to go back out. 
 ''Island Pond, this area, has the best-marked trails in the Northeast,'' said Todd Allman of Greenfield, Mass., who drove to St. Johnsbury with four friends on a recent Saturday morning, parked, and started snowmobiling. They planned to head back to Massachusetts that evening. ''It's worth it. Whenever there's snow, we get right up here.'' 
 The trails are maintained and groomed by the Vermont Association of Snow Travelers, a group of about 35,000 volunteers in 138 local clubs. The clubs take care of designated trail areas and sell passes, which all snowmobilers need to ride on association trails. Passes are $65 for a Vermont resident or property owner, $95 for out-of-state riders. Clubs also usually charge fees. 
 Vermont's trail system is unusual in that 80 percent of its trails are on private land. Local clubs are responsible for getting landowners to allow public snowmobile trails to be cut on their property. 
 Merle Young, who is president of his local club, said many landowners give permission when they realize how much the area's economy depends on snowmobiling. Snowmobilers contribute about $550 million to the state's economy, according to the association. 
 Traveling on the trails does present its own special problems. Many of the restaurants along the trails also double as bars, and speed limits are often not obeyed. The speed limit is 35 miles per hour on state land, and police often patrol for people snowmobiling while intoxicated. The legal limit is .08, just as in a car. According to the Vermont State Police, all operators over the age of 12 must take and pass a snowmobile safety course. 
 ''The biggest problems we have out here are drinking and speeding,'' Mr. Young said, adding, ''but most people want to be safe.'' 
 Cruising along Route 16, riders pass signs pointing toward Albany, Vt., with nothing but rolling hills and green vistas in view. And, despite the criticism that they may receive from environmentalists, many snowmobilers say that's what it's all about. 
 ''There's a perception that snowmobilers disrupt wildlife and tear up the woods, but it's the opposite,'' Mr. Sheridan said. ''People respect their surroundings and have an admiration for them. It's odd, but being on a motor vehicle puts you in touch with nature.'' 
 Still, many weekend warriors are also in it for the rush. 
 ''It's a thrill,'' said Dave Albert, who was part of the group from Meriden, Conn. ''The only other thing I can compare it to is motorbiking.'' 
 But snowmobiling is also, he said, just a way of life in northern Vermont. 
 ''We pass towns where you see snowmobiles parked outside churches,'' Mr. Albert said. ''I don't think any other recreational sport can say that.'' 
 MORE INFORMATION
 THE Vermont Association of Snow Travelers (www.vtvast.org) maintains the trails and provides maps and information for riders. The association is made up of 138 local clubs, which sell trail passes.
 The Vermont Outdoor Guide Association provides an event calendar and travel information for snowmobilers: www.voga.org/snowmobile--.htm
 The site Scenes of Vermont has trail reports, weather conditions and snowmobile forums: www.scenesofvermont.com/snowmobile/
 LinkVermont has a list of places to rent snowmobiles: www.linkvermont.com/snowmobile--touroperators.htm
 Additional links to snowmobile resources statewide can be found at SnowRider magazine: www.snowridermag.com/links/vermont.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROZEN ROAD: Friends out for a ride on the snowmobile trails near West Glover, Vt.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F1)
BACK ON LAND: A snowmobiler reaches the shore after crossing Island Pond. The Northeast Kingdom's lakes and ponds are popular with
TOPPING UP: Refueling at a country store along the trail system.
 THE INNER RIDER: Valentine's Restaurant and Pub, a popular spot for lunch.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) MAP Map details Northeast Kingdom, Vermont. (pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNOWMOBILING (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); GAS STATIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (75%); SPEED LIMITS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



4 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Slow Their Spending Pace

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Consumer spending slowed in December and inflation continued to rise, the government said Thursday, leaving the Federal Reserve less maneuvering room as it ponders policy decisions in the months ahead. 
 Spending by consumers, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic growth, rose by an anemic 0.2 percent in December after jumping 1 percent in November. Adjusted for inflation, spending was flat for the month. 
 Economists have predicted a significant downturn in spending as consumers grapple with record-high oil and food prices. The report from the Commerce Department reinforces the disappointing holiday sales figures that leading retail chains released in the last few weeks.
 ''With the labor market weakening and housing remaining a huge weight, the pace of consumer spending growth ought to remain painfully slow in the months ahead,'' Joshua Shapiro, an economist at MFR, wrote in a research note.
 Some economists are suggesting that the United States could face a period of stagflation -- a combination of slow economic growth and rising prices. A closely watched gauge of inflation that excludes food and energy ticked up last month, to a 2.2 percent annual rate. 
 Over all, prices in December were 3.5 percent higher than they were a year ago, far above the Fed's so-called ''comfort zone'' of 1 to 2 percent. 
 High inflation puts the Fed in a difficult situation. The central bank primarily sets monetary policy by changing a crucial interest rate. Lowering the rate stimulates growth, but also causes prices to rise, increasing the risk of inflation.
 In its most recent policy statement, released Wednesday, Fed officials said they expected inflation ''to moderate in coming quarters, but it will be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully.''
 The Commerce Department report also showed that personal income levels rose 0.5 percent in December. Disposable income -- after-tax salary adjusted for inflation -- has risen 2.1 percent since December 2006. A separate report from the Labor Department showed that new unemployment claims, a leading indicator of the labor market, increased by 69,000, to 375,000, in the week ended Jan. 26. It was the highest level since October 2005.
 A Chicago-based barometer of business activity fell in January. New orders dropped sharply, to the lowest level since May 2003, and the price of production rose, underscoring the impact of high inflation on business owners.
 ''These numbers are not at recession levels, but they are only one bad month away,'' wrote Ian C. Shepherdson, a London-based economist at High Frequency Economics, in a note to clients. ''The manufacturing sector is coming under increasing pressure.''
 The business activity report, issued by the Chicago arm of the National Association of Purchasing Management, may not bode well for the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index, a closely watched indicator of United States business activity. The index for December will be released on Friday.
 Employment at Chicago-area businesses also fell this month. Over all, the index dropped to 51.5, from 56.4 in December.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A sale sign in the window of an H&M store in New York late in December. High gasoline prices and declining home values left many consumers overextended and unable to increase spending.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN FICKIES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Personal Spending: Total personal spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart shows bar graph for Personal Spending and Income. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); NEW ORDERS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); STATISTICS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



5 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3961 words

HEADLINE: Movie Guide and Film Series

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 
 INTRODUCING BERT WILLIAMS Here's to movies and records! Without them the vaudeville comedian Bert Williams would have a secure place in theater history, but he would be present to us only through the rapturous descriptions of critics and contemporaries like W. C. Fields, who called him ''the funniest man I ever saw and the saddest man I ever knew.'' 
 Williams (1874-1922), above, is generally considered America's first black star. He broke vaudeville's color line and recorded hit after hit for Columbia, though he made only a few movies. Two Biograph shorts from 1916 -- ''Fish,'' a dramatization of one of his comic stories, and ''Gambler,'' which ends with one of his famous vaudeville bits (a wonderful pantomimed poker game) -- are basically it. But if you haven't seen them, get yourself to the Museum of Modern Art, which is showing new 35-millimeter prints on Saturday, along with a special treat: unedited footage from a mysterious romantic comedy featuring Williams. (Steven Higgins, the MoMA curator organizing the show, said not much was known about this film, from who made it to whether it was released.) 
 The films may be more interesting as artifacts than as art, but they offer a tantalizing glimpse of Williams in action. He's riveting -- a screen natural, who seems to understand exactly how to pitch his performance for the camera. As he did onstage, he appears in blackface, though the other black actors mostly don't. It's distracting at first: you can't help thinking about the strange contortions of America's racial obsession. But that's fitting; it's part of Williams's story. And after a while you start to see only him. His melancholy humor and intelligence shine through the makeup and the films' occasionally clumsy direction. And then you start thinking, ''We wuz robbed.'' In another, better world, Williams might have settled into a long, productive film career. In this world we have only hints of what might have been. 
 Camille F. Forbes, the author of a new critical study, ''Introducing Bert Williams,'' will introduce the screening. (Saturday at 6 p.m.; 212-708-9400, moma.org; $10.) RACHEL SALTZ 
 'ALICE'S HOUSE' (No rating, 1:30, in Portuguese) Chico Teixeira's languid, libidinous film observes a messy Sao Paolo apartment where Alice (the wonderful Carla Ribas) copes with an ailing mother, three teenage sons and an unfaithful husband. Simultaneously delicate and earthy, ''Alice's House'' anchors its soap opera plotlines -- adultery, avarice and incipient blindness -- in the tired body and vaguely ruined features of its dreamy heroine. (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'ALIENS VS. PREDATOR: REQUIEM' (R, 1:26) A not-bad next step in this hybrid of two sci-fi film series, ''Requiem'' begins with the crash landing of a space ship in Colorado. The aliens of the ''Alien'' films begin suction-cupping the faces of every Coloradoan in sight, so the predators of the ''Predator'' films, who hunt aliens, send one of their best to try to contain the situation. Reiko Aylesworth of ''24'' and Steven Pasquale of ''Rescue Me'' are among the humans who try to get away. The film focuses more on the humans and less on the visitors from space than the first installment of the ''A.V.P.'' series, which makes it more interesting. But it gives newcomers no help by providing none of the back story that links the two franchises. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'ALVIN AND THE CHIPMUNKS' (PG, 1:32) Adults who remember this musical cartoon franchise created by Ross Bagdasarian Sr. in 1958 may derive fleeting amusement from this update, which concerns the efforts of the title characters' surrogate dad, Dave Seville (Jason Lee), to rescue them from the clutches of a perfidious record executive (a delightfully despicable, movie-stealing David Cross). Kids may find less to connect with: The digitally animated heroes are eclipsed by their adult, live-action co-stars, a fatal mistake. Rent the DVD, or watch it with your children on a plane flight. (Andy Webster)
 'AMERICAN GANGSTER' (R, 2:38) The divide between the director Ridley Scott's seriousness of purpose and the false glamour that wafts around American gangsters, and invariably trivializes their brutality, become s too wide to breach in this story about the rise and fall of a 1970s New York drug lord. Denzel Washington wears the black hat, Russell Crowe wears the white. (Manohla Dargis)
 'ATONEMENT' (R, 2:03) Gorgeous and inert, this adaptation of Ian McEwan's novel suggests that some books are best left alone. (A. O. Scott)
 'BEAUFORT' (No rating, 2:05, in Hebrew) Joseph Cedar's tense drama takes place at a fortress in Lebanon captured by Israel in the 1980s. The last group of Israeli soldiers is preparing to withdraw, under attack from Hezbollah and with decided ambivalence. The movie's earnest sobriety helps it through passages of tedium and occasional bouts of combat-picture cliche. (Scott) 
 'BEFORE THE DEVIL KNOWS YOU'RE DEAD' (R, 1:56) Philip Seymour Hoffman and Ethan Hawke play two desperate brothers whose scheme to rob their parents' jewelry store goes terribly wrong. The movie, directed with feverish authority by Sidney Lumet from a solid script by Kelly Masterson, gets just about everything right. (Scott) 
 'THE BUCKET LIST' (PG-13, 1:38) In this preposterous feel-good comedy about two men with terminal cancer, Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman slip into their stock personas without adding a note we haven't seen before. (Stephen Holden)
 'CASSANDRA'S DREAM' (PG-13, 1:45) A well-matched Ewan McGregor and Colin Farrell play brothers in blood and deed in Woody Allen's London-based, dark-hearted, effective tragedy. (Dargis)
 'CHARLIE WILSON'S WAR' (PG-13, 1:36) Tom Hanks plays the hard-drinking, skirt-chasing Texas congressman who helped finance the Afghan resistance to Soviet occupation in the 1980s. Julia Roberts and Philip Seymour Hoffman are terrific as his co-conspirators in this remarkably jaunty excursion into cold war covert operations. (Scott) 
 'CLOVERFIELD' (PG-13, 1:24) OMG! It's, like, totally the end of the world!! (Dargis)
 'THE DIVING BELL AND THE BUTTERFLY' (PG-13, 1:52, in French) Julian Schnabel's film, about Jean-Dominique Bauby, a French magazine editor paralyzed by a stroke, is a marvel of empathy and imagination. It is also a celebration of French sensualism and an examination of the nature of consciousness. (Scott) 
 'DOC' (No rating, 1:38) This nonfiction feature recounts the life of the novelist, inventor and cult figure Harold Louis Humes, known as Doc. Born in 1926 and died in 1992, he came of age in Paris during the 1950s. He wrote the politically radical novels ''The Underground City'' and ''Men Die''; helped create the New American Cinema Group with Jonas Mekas and others; founded The Paris Review with George Plimpton and Peter Matthiessen; advocated massage and marijuana; designed a fireproof, waterproof paper house; and gave lectures to anyone, anywhere, at the drop of a hat. Lovingly assembled by Mr. Humes's daughter Immy Humes and jam-packed with interviews with notable 20th-century cultural figures (including Mr. Plimpton, Norman Mailer, William Styron and Timothy Leary), ''Doc'' is one part cultural analysis, three parts home movie. (Matt Zoller Seitz) 
 'EASTERN PROMISES' (R, 1:40) The humanism of Steve Knight's script clashes in interesting ways with the ruthless formal rigor of the director, David Cronenberg, in this clammy, unsettling underworld tale. Viggo Mortensen is magnetic and enigmatic as a Russian mobster who shows some signs of conscience. (Scott)
 'ENCHANTED' (PG, 1:47) This unexpectedly delightful revisionist fairy tale from, of all places, Walt Disney Pictures, doesn't radically rewrite every bummer cliche about girls of all ages and their dreams. But for a satisfying stretch, it works real magic both by sending up stereotypes and through the twinkling, unwinking performance of its superb star, Amy Adams. (Dargis)
 'FIRST SUNDAY' (PG-13, 1:36) Ice Cube and Tracy Morgan rob a church and find redemption. Meanwhile Katt Williams, as the flamboyant choir director, steals the movie. (Scott)
 '4 MONTHS, 3 WEEKS AND 2 DAYS' (No rating, 1:53, in Romanian) In this ferocious, unsentimental film from the Romanian writer and director Cristian Mungiu the camera doesn't follow the action, it expresses consciousness itself. This consciousness -- alert to the world and insistently alive -- is embodied by a young university student who in the late 1980s helps her roommate with an illegal abortion in Ceausescu's Romania. It's a pitiless, violent story that in its telling becomes a haunting and haunted intellectual and aesthetic achievement. (Dargis) 
 'THE GREAT DEBATERS' (PG-13, 2:03) The wonder is that ''The Great Debaters'' transcends its own simplifying and manipulative ploys; it radiates nobility of spirit. (Holden) 
 'HONEYDRIPPER' (PG-13, 2:03) This movie is agreeable, well-intentioned and very, very slow. Sadly, it illustrates the difference between an archetype and a stereotype. When an archetype falls flat, it turns into a stereotype and becomes a cliche. (Holden) 
 'HOW SHE MOVE' (PG-13, 1:34) This feature by the director Ian Iqbal Rashid (''Touch of Pink'') about a disaffected young woman competing in dance contests, is the latest incarnation of the up-by-your-bootstraps musical drama. There's nary a twist you don't see coming. But the film's strong acting, spectacular dance routines and culturally specific details turn cliche into catharsis. It's the sort of film that sends you home with a spring in your step. (Seitz) 
 'I AM LEGEND' (PG-13, 1:40) Will Smith, as the sole surviving human resident of Manhattan, paints the town in fine style in this post-apocalyptic zombie action thriller. It falls apart in the last act, but Mr. Smith and the special effects make it quite watchable up until then. (Scott)
 'I'M NOT THERE' (R, 2:15) Hurling a Molotov cocktail into the biopic factory, Todd Haynes uses six different actors and an astonishing range of looks and styles to meditate on the life, work and cultural impact of Bob Dylan. Inspired and inexhaustible. (Scott)
 'INTO THE WILD' (R, 2:20) In his adaptation of Jon Krakauer's best seller, Sean Penn explores the life and death of Christopher McCandless, a young wanderer who perished in the Alaskan wilderness in 1992. The story is sad, but there is something almost exuberant in Mr. Penn's embrace of it -- and in Emile Hirsch's brilliant performance as McCandless. Rarely has the radical, romantic American attachment to the wilderness been explored with such sympathy and passion. (Scott)
 'JUNO' (PG-13, 1:31) A sharply written and acted coming-of-age comedy, starring the remarkable Ellen Page as Juno MacGuff, a teenager who deals with her unanticipated pregnancy in unexpected ways. (Scott)
 'THE KITE RUNNER' (PG-13, 2:08, in Dari) This adaptation of the Khaled Hosseini best seller tells a simple yet shrewd story about that favorite American pastime: self-improvement. The locations are exotic; the direction by Marc Forster is soporific. (Dargis)'LOST IN BEIJING' (No rating, 1:52, in Mandarin) A melodrama of sex and class in the sleek, bustling Chinese capital, directed by Lu Yi. The story is schematic, but the performances, especially by Tony Leung Ka-Fai and Fan Bingbing, keep it grounded in emotional and social reality. (Scott) 
 'LUST, CAUTION' (NC-17, 2:38, in Mandarin) A sleepy, musty period drama about wartime maneuvers and bedroom calisthenics that makes poor use of the otherwise solid director Ang Lee and the great Hong Kong actor Tony Leung Chiu-Wai. The movie's explicit sex scenes earned it an NC-17, but put me in mind of high school geometry rather than the Kama Sutra. (Dargis)
 'MAD MONEY' (PG-13, 1:44) In this breezy, amoral heist comedy, ''Fun With Dick and Jane'' meets ''9 to 5'' on the way to recession. This uncomfortably timely movie may lack the political bite of ''Fun'' and the cozy star chemistry of ''9 to 5,'' but it twinkles to fitful life in the crooked grin of Diane Keaton as a lady with a lust for larceny. (Holden)
 'MEET THE SPARTANS' (PG-13, 1:32) In this redundant and tasteless spoof of the film ''300,'' King Leonidas (Sean Maguire) and 13 faithful boyfriends -- er, soldiers -- face off against the Persians and an avalanche of pop-culture detritus. Meanwhile the writers and directors, Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer (whose fingers have been in everything from the ''Scary Movie'' franchise to the more recent ''Epic Movie''), continue to prove that ridiculing other movies is much easier than making your own. (Catsoulis) 
 'MICHAEL CLAYTON' (R, 1:59) A slow-to-boil requiem for American decency from the writer and director Tony Gilroy in which George Clooney, the ultimate in luxury brands and playboy of the Western world, raises the sword in the name of truth and justice and good. Well, someone's got to do it. (Dargis)
 'NATIONAL TREASURE: BOOK OF SECRETS' (PG, 2:04) This hyperactive, densely plotted yet strangely weightless sequel sends its archaeologist hero, Ben Franklin Gates (Nicolas Cage, flexing his deadpan), on a globe-trotting quest to clear the name of an ancestor wrongly accused of collaborating to assassinate Lincoln. The characters' facility with factoids is amusing, but the visuals are blah. One bright spot is Helen Mirren as Ben's mother, who manages to be sly and sexy even when translating pre-Columbian glyphs. (Seitz) 
 'NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN' (R, 2:02) Mean, violent and impeccable, Joel and Ethan Coen's adaptation of a pulpy, compact novel by Cormac McCarthy lives and breathes in the central performances of Tommy Lee Jones, Josh Brolin and Javier Bardem, who chase one another, $2 million and metaphysical truth through the Texas back country. (Scott)
 'ONE MISSED CALL' A brow-furrowing blend of child abuse and adult trauma, Eric Valette's reworking of Takashi Miike's ''Chakushin Ari'' follows a dour psychology student whose friends suffer grisly deaths after receiving heads-ups on their cellphones. Sacrificing coherence for atmosphere at every turn, this is a poker-faced puzzle whose biggest shock is the absence of Sarah Michelle Gellar. (PG-13, 1:27) (Catsoulis)
 'ORTHODOX STANCE' (No rating, 1:22, in English, Russian, Hebrew and Spanish) Jason Hutt's intriguingly layered documentary follows the young boxer Dmitriy Salita, an immigrant from Ukraine, as he strives to integrate his career as a junior welterweight and his faith as an Orthodox Jew. Over a turbulent three-year period ''Orthodox Stance'' reveals a man who has found his identity -- and his fan base -- through both. (Catsoulis) 
 'PERSEPOLIS' (PG-13, 1:35, in French) Marjane Satrapi's adaptation of her graphic novel-memoir is a free-spirited coming-of-age story, beautifully drawn and voiced by a formidable trio of French movie stars. (Scott) 
 'THE PIRATES WHO DON'T DO ANYTHING: A VEGGIE TALES MOVIE' (G, 1:24) This movie for young children, the second feature film in the Veggie Tales franchise, is harmless but as devoid of zest as overcooked vegetables. Three of the characters are transported back in time and called upon to rescue a prince and princess from pirates. The film seems like a lazy attempt to cash in on ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' chic by using a plot outline borrowed from ''The Wizard of Oz.'' (Genzlinger)
 'P.S. I LOVE YOU' (PG-13, 2:00) Hilary Swank stars in this old-fashioned weepy about a young woman who receives instruction on how to be a widow from her dead husband. Ms. Swank's ardent sincerity dovetails nicely with the director Richard LaGravenese's melodramatic excesses. (Dargis) 
 'RAMBO' (R, 1:33) After 20 years moping in the jungle, John Rambo is back, more muscle-bound and impassive than ever. This time he extracts some bloody payback from the brutal Burmese Army in one of the more brutal humanitarian interventions ever imagined. (Scott) 
 'THE SAVAGES' (R, 1:53) Tamara Jenkins's beautifully nuanced tragicomedy involves two floundering souls -- a middle-aged brother and sister played with force and feeling by Philip Seymour Hoffman and Laura Linney -- who are suddenly left to care for their infirm father (Philip Bosco). There isn't a single moment of emotional guff or sentimentality in ''The Savages,'' a film that periodically caused me to wince, but also left me with a sense of acute pleasure, even joy. (Dargis)
 'SEA MONSTERS: A PREHISTORIC ADVENTURE' (No rating, 40 minutes) Imax movies are like classroom lectures during which the teacher hurls giant props at the students. Luckily, here the props are as spectacular as you could wish. At least half the movie's 40 minutes are devoted to efficient but bland re-enactments of 20th-century archaeologists unearthing fossils from the Cretaceous period in the once-submerged Central Plains of the United States. But these pale beside the film's true raison d'etre: digitally recreated prehistoric sea beasts that seem as real as whales and sharks. (Seitz)
 'SMILEY FACE' (R, 1:25) This film by Gregg Araki, about a pot-addled would-be actress (Anna Faris of the ''Scary Movie'' franchise) stumbling through a long, weird day in Los Angeles, is a contradiction in terms: a ''stoner'' comedy with a purpose. Despite its laid-back script (by Dylan Haggerty), ''Smiley Face'' is as prankishly political as Mr. Araki's ''Doom Generation,'' evincing a deep unease with the media-saturated capitalist nation that Jane crawls inside her bong to escape. (Seitz) 
 'SOUTHLAND TALES' (R, 2:24) Richard Kelly's funny, audacious, messy and feverishly inspired future-shock look at America and its discontents opens with the very biggest of bangs: a nuclear attack on Texas. World War III ensues, but happily Dwayne Johnson, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Justin Timberlake, Seann William Scott and a crew of professional wisenheimers are here to help. (Dargis)
 'STILL LIFE' (No rating, 1:48, in Mandarin) A modern master of postmodern discontent, Jia Zhang-ke is among the most strikingly gifted filmmakers working today. In his documentary-inflected fictions he weighs the human cost of China's shift from state-controlled communism to state-sanctioned capitalism, a price paid in the blood and sweat of people who have, paradoxically, inspired him to create works of sublime, soulful art -- works of art like ''Still Life.'' (Dargis)
 'SUMMER PALACE' (No rating, 2:20, in Mandarin and German) Lou Ye's sweeping, spirited portrait of Chinese college students before and after Tiananmen Square has the scope of an epic and the rhythms of a pop song. Lei Hao gives a fierce, uninhibited performance as the film's passionate, impulsive heroine, a girl from the provinces who arrives at Beijing University in 1988. (Scott)
 'SWEENEY TODD' (R, 1:50) Tim Burton's adaptation of Stephen Sondheim's musical, with Johnny Depp in the title role, is bleak, bloody and brilliant. The songs will stay in your head even as the story and the images trouble your sleep. (Scott) 
 'TAXI TO THE DARK SIDE' (R, 1:46) This documentary by Alex Gibney (''Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room'') traces a path from Bagram prison in Afghanistan to Abu Graib and Guantanamo, and serves up a powerful indictment of some of the American military's tactics in the war on terror. (Scott)
 'TEETH' (R, 1:27) Clever and crude, this teenage horror movie spoof follows the misadventures of a mutant teen angel unknowingly afflicted with the mythical condition known as vagina dentata (a toothed vagina). (Holden)
 'THERE WILL BE BLOOD' (R, 2:38) Paul Thomas Anderson's epic American nightmare tells a story of greed and envy of biblical proportions set against the backdrop of the Southern California oil boom of the late-19th- and early-20th centuries. There is no God but money in this oil-rich desert, and his messenger is Daniel Plainview, a petroleum speculator played by a monstrous and shattering Daniel Day-Lewis. (Dargis)
 '27 DRESSES' (PG-13, 1:47) Katherine Heigl, trading the unexpected maternity of ''Knocked Up'' for the expectation of matrimony, stars in this bland and forgettable romantic comedy. Ms. Heigl, Malin Akerman (as her sister and romantic rival) and Judy Greer (as the inevitably flaky/slutty friend) are all adept comic performers, but the filmmakers give them nothing fresh or interesting to work with. (Scott)
 'UNTRACEABLE' (R, 1:40) Morally duplicitous torture porn: how else to describe this bleak, rain-washed horror thriller, whose predatory villain streams live video of his murders on his own popular Web site, killwithme.com. (Holden) 
 'U2 3D' (G, 1:25) The musical documentary, which stitches together performances by this Irish rock band during a recent tour of South America, brazenly ignores the usual stipulations about making a 3-D film, to thrilling effect. The movie's co-directors, Mark Pellington and Catherine Owens, layer the screen with multiple planes of information: long shots and medium shots of the musicians, images of the crowd, close-up details of graphics from the big screen that the band performs in front of that make the designs abstract and merge them with the performers. Thanks to the clarity of the movie's format, digital 3-D, the result is not a confusing mishmash of images but a musical/experimental work that visually simulates the sensation of thinking. (Seitz)
 'THE WATER HORSE: LEGEND OF THE DEEP' (PG, 1:51) In this enthralling adaptation of a novel by Dick King-Smith, a boy in Scotland stumbles across a mysterious egg that hatches an adorable, mischievous creature (a remarkably lifelike piece of digital animation) that grows into the Loch Ness Monster. (Laura Kern)
 Film Series
 FILMS BY OLIVIER ASSAYAS (Friday through Thursday) A critic turned filmmaker in the finest French New Wave tradition, Mr. Assayas has built up a substantial body of work in the last 20 years, embracing both the naturalistic (''Late August, Early September,'' ''Les Desinees Sentimentales'') and formalistic (''Irma Vep,''''Demonlover'') extremes of French filmmaking. This weeklong survey of his work includes those four titles, as well as his 1998 collaboration with the director Andre Techine, ''Alice and Martin'' (Sunday and Monday), and his superb documentary ''HHH: A Portrait of Hou Hsiao-hsien'' (Saturday and Monday), a 1997 study of that great Taiwanese filmmaker. Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Dave Kehr)
 OSCAR'S DOCS, 1941-1945: BRAVERY AND BIAS (Saturday through Thursday) The Academy Awards for documentaries (short and feature-length) were introduced in 1942, at a time when most documentary production was devoted to propaganda for the war effort. This intriguing series examines how nonfiction films were used simultaneously to inform and incite during World War II, beginning with the 1941 Canadian short ''Churchill's Island,'' which won the first documentary Oscar (Saturday and Sunday), and continuing with ''Prelude to War'' from Frank Capra's ''Why We Fight'' series; the gripping ''Moscow Strikes Back'' (1942), photographed on the Russian front (Saturday and Sunday); and a program of shorts (Monday) that includes John Ford's two wartime documentaries, ''December 7th'' and ''The Battle of Midway.'' The series ends next Friday with Don Siegel's startling 1945 ''Hitler Lives?,'' a training film for American occupation forces that none too subtly suggests that the polka-dancing Germans remain fierce Nazi ideologues behind their welcoming smiles. Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MOVIE REVIEWS (91%); FILM GENRES (90%); COMEDY FILMS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); POKER (68%); WRITERS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



6 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: A Plea for More Federal Dollars to Build America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Investing in America,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Jan. 29): 
 Mr. Herbert is right to call on the federal government to take a stronger leadership role in meeting our nation's infrastructure challenges. We recently announced the formation of Building America's Future, a nonpartisan coalition that will fight for exactly this goal. 
 As state and local leaders, we are intimately aware of how critical infrastructure is to ensure our nation's economic health, keep our families safe, and create vibrant and sustainable communities. 
 Yet while states and cities have significantly increased infrastructure spending in recent years, federal spending has been flat. Three out of every four infrastructure dollars now come from states and cities.
 In the coming months, we will put a spotlight on the nation's infrastructure shortfalls. Our country needs a new, independent approach to infrastructure, one that provides sufficient financing and weighs projects based on merit, not politics. We hope that federal leaders will join us in making this a reality.
 Michael R. Bloomberg
 Edward G. Rendell
 Arnold Schwarzenegger
 Harrisburg, Pa., Jan. 31, 2008
 The writers are the mayor of New York and the governors of Pennsylvania and California, respectively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



7 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'ARTE NO ES VIDA'; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: When the Conceptual Was Political

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
In December 1983 the Argentine Conceptual artist Marta Minujin and a group of helpers spent 17 days building a full-scale model of the Parthenon in a public park in Buenos Aires. Except for a metal scaffolding, it was made almost entirely of books wrapped in plastic. All the books had been banned by one of the most oppressive juntas in the country's history, which was just being dismantled after Argentina's first democratic election in a decade. ''The Parthenon of Books/Homage to Democracy,'' as Ms. Minujin's work was titled, stood for about three weeks. Then the public was allowed to disassemble the piece and keep the books. 
 Even in grainy black-and-white photographs, the temple of books looks awesome, if slightly disheveled. (No matter the distance, books can't be confused with marble.) It juts above the heads of the crowd gathered around it, as if sitting on its own printed-matter Acropolis. You had to be there for the full effect, I'm sure, but just seeing the photograph, reading the caption and thinking of the previously banned books funneling into circulation are both enlightening and moving. 
 That may be your reaction to quite a bit, if hardly all, of ''Arte No Es Vida: Actions by Artists of the Americas, 1960-2000,'' at El Museo del Barrio: Maybe you had to be there, but what you see here is pretty interesting on its own. 
 This ethereal exhibition has been organized by Deborah Cullen, the museum's director of curatorial programs. It covers four decades of ephemeral performance work and actions by more than 100 artists and collectives from Central and South America, as well as Cuba, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic, who were working in their home countries, the United States or Europe. It represents a quantum leap in knowledge about Conceptual or nonobjective art in Latin America, considering that international surveys of Conceptual Art tend to include 10 or at most 20 artists from that region. 
 Some of the names are familiar, among them Ana Mendieta, Helio Oiticica, Tania Bruguera, Alfredo Jaar, Coco Fusco and Eugenio Dittborn. But most aren't. 
 The exhibition contains far more documentation than actual artworks, but this is not such a limitation. Dominated in its early sections by black-and-white photographs and videos, it is foremost an archive, with an archive's aura of dense, ordered information; mysterious images; and new information and understandings. It delivers on all counts.
 Its main message is that while Latin American Conceptual or nonobject artists were heterogeneous, they tended to differ from those in Europe and North America by emphasizing accessibility, audience participation and sociopolitical relevance. 
 Conceptual Art in North America has trickled down to the popular level in the ways it has influenced entertainment and advertising. In South America it was aimed directly at that level from the get-go, perhaps because of regional character but mainly from immediate need. 
 The show has its share of generic anti-art but also numerous examples, like Ms. Minujin's piece, in which the artistic imagination and the pressure of historic events click with effective results. The pressures were great. At different times in different countries in this region, avant-garde impulses were transformed by the liberation movements of the 1960s. Often they went head to head with growing anti-liberation tendencies: military dictatorships, human rights violations, economic instability and material lack, which all caused great suffering but also inspired unity and courageous acts. 
 Ms. Cullen has organized the exhibition in chronological sequence, dotted with national clusters and divided into thematic sections like ''Precursors'' (which shows Ms. Minujin and other artists working in Paris in the early 1960s), ''Burning Issues,'' ''Happenings,'' ''Border-Crossers'' and ''Dreamscapes.'' 
 There are exceptions to the information flow. Near the beginning, in the ''Destruction'' section, hangs ''Archeological Find #21,'' a glowering wall relief that is actually a violently flattened sofa from 1961 by Raphael Montanez Ortiz, the founder and first director of El Museo del Barrio. Midway there is an enlarged Magrittean golden comb filled to the teeth with golden hair, dated 1984-97, by the Brazilian artist Tunga. 
 Art objects proliferate in the show's final section, which is devoted to the years after 1990, when artists everywhere have tended to give Conceptual strategies some kind of lasting physical manifestation. This is true even if the objects are Daniel Joseph Martinez's little metal museum tags, originally made for the 1993 Whitney Biennial, that state ''I Can't Ever Imagine Wanting to Be White,'' or Felix Gonzalez-Torres's pile of red, white and blue wrapped candies, free for the taking. 
 Don't miss the largish color photographs with which Freddie Mercado Velazquez documents himself swanning around San Juan, P.R., in 19th-century drag (here an Ingres, there a Sargent). And the show's great fade-out is an enchanting color video that may make you blink in disbelief: a genuine flea circus cast, outfitted and trained by the Colombian artist Maria Fernanda Cardoso. 
 The tensions between liberating and oppressive impulses that energize the show are clearest in the beginning. Whether they are major or minor, profound or hilarious, you feel artists constantly pushing the aesthetic, social or legal envelope. An exception might be Todos Estrellas (the All Stars), a group of Cuban artists and critics whose frustration with interference from the Castro regime led them to form a baseball team; photographs show a 1989 game. (''Fidel likes baseball'' is how Noel Valentin, a Cuban and El Museo's registrar, explained it.) 
 Near Mr. Ortiz's flattened couch, violence becomes more real, or at least more referential, in photographs of Artur Barrio's ''Bloody Bundles'' sculptures, parts of butchered animals tied in sheets. They caused considerable consternation when Mr. Barrio distributed them around public gathering places in Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, Brazil, in the late 1960s, mimicking the way paramilitary forces, acting under the dictatorship, often dumped the mutilated bodies of torture victims in more remote areas. 
 More benign, but in some ways equally basic, was the traditional rural oven that Victor Grippo built in a square in Buenos Aires in 1972, baking and distributing bread until the police intervened. And far more elaborate is ''Image of Caracas,'' a happening that ran for 20 days before being shut down by the Caracas city government. Housed in an enormous tent and projecting images on towering screens, it involved the efforts of scores of artists, actors, musicians and filmmakers, overseen by the film and theater director (and now painter) Jacobo Borges. The photographs and videos documenting it here provide the show's most euphoric, glamorous moment. 
 Beyond that comes a lone newspaper clipping, an article about ''Happening for a Deceased Boar.'' Its title echoes Joseph Beuys's famous performance ''How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare,'' but it never actually took place; it was a hoax contrived by the Argentine artists Roberto Jacoby, Eduardo Costa and Raul Escari. (Fittingly this is in the section titled ''The Medium Is the Message.'') 
 In the ''Border-Crossers'' section you'll find documentation of the urban interventions of Asco, a group of Los Angeles artists (Harry Gamboa Jr., Gronk, Willie Herron, Patssi Valdez and Humberto Sandoval), which included spraying their names on the outside of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. And the section titled ''Junta! No!'' provides a haunting example of art in action from the Collective of Art Actions, known as CADA, formed in 1979 at the height of the Pinochet regime by the Chilean artists Lotty Rosenfeld, Juan Castillo, Fernando Balcells, Diamela Eltit and Raul Zurita. 
 The several CADA actions documented here include ''Oh, South America,'' from 1981, in which six small-engine planes flying in military formation dropped 400,000 leaflets on Santiago. The leaflets -- a torn example is on view -- offered creative encouragement: ''Each individual who works for the expansion of the space of his or her life (even if mental) is an artist.'' In 1983 CADA and other collaborators began to write ''No +'' on the walls of Santiago at night. As Robert Neustadt, a professor of Latin American studies at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff, recounts in his essay in the exhibition's catalog (in preparation), this fill-in-the-blank protest slogan -- ''No more dictatorship,'' ''No more torture,'' ''No more disappeared'' -- was soon taken up by the public. It became emblematic of the growing pro-democracy movement and even appeared on the scoreboard of the National Stadium during the inauguration of the democratically elected government of Patricio Aylwin in 1990. 
 As in other parts of this exhibition, it could be argued that some of CADA's activities don't need to be called art, that they constitute very effective agitprop meldings of idealism and activism. Yet the show's title, ''Art Is Not Life,'' seems to prohibit such blending. Art is not life, especially when life is dire. But artists can illuminate, relieve and occasionally help change life, and art can proudly take some of the credit. 
 ''Arte No Es Vida: Actions by Artists of the Americas, 1960-2000'' is on view through May 18 at El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem; (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The Parthenon of Books/Homage to Democracy,'' a full-scale model made by Marta Minujin in Buenos Aires in 1983. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARiA FERNANDA CARDOSO) (pg. E33
 E36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); HISTORY (71%); ELECTIONS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%) ARGENTINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



8 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Buying Low: Minor Leaguer Takes Stock of Himself

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
While the pending trade of Johan Santana to the Mets has shaken up Major League Baseball, a relatively unknown, submarine-throwing farmhand who might never reach the big leagues has also spent the week rattling his sport's economics.
 Randy Newsom, a reliever last season for the Cleveland Indians' Class A and AA affiliates, set up a Web site through which fans and other outsiders could purchase a piece of his future major league earnings. Through Thursday, Newsom had sold about 1,800 shares of himself at $20 apiece. Each share afforded the bearer .002 percent of his career pay, uniting his goals with investors who hope he makes it big. 
 Dozens of minor leaguers had expressed interest in also going public through Newsom's new company, Real Sports Investments, he said. Unfortunately for Newsom, however, his plan did not exactly thrill M.L.B., the players union or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Offerings shopped over the Internet must be registered with the S.E.C., and Newsom's was not. After speaking with a lawyer for M.L.B. on Thursday afternoon, Newsom decided to table his idea to work with authorities on a venture they would approve and perhaps even support.
 ''We want to pause to hear everyone's concerns,'' Newsom said, adding that he would refund $36,000 to his hundreds of investors. ''This idea is not going away. This is assured by the amount of fan support, and the amount of players we talked to, that the support is there. The spirit of this idea will go on.''
 That idea, Newsom said, was to supplement minor leaguers' meager wages -- usually about $8,000 for a five-month season -- while building a unique bond among fans and players.
 ''People get up and look at their players' stats every day, and root for them as they go through the minor leagues,'' said Newsom, who is considered only a marginal major league prospect because of his below-average fastball. ''This can be the same type of thing, where fans have a tiny vested interest in hoping a guy does well.''
 Converting future earnings into upfront revenue is not new in business or sports; David Bowie has sold his royalty rights in the form of offshore bonds, and young golfers are often backed by speculative businessmen. Here, rather than collect inanimate rookie cards, fans would invest in tiny pieces of real farmhands.
 Under the tabled plan, whereby he would have sold off 5 percent of any future major league income, Newsom would have needed to earn about $2 million for his shareholders to break even. That would have required a career of at least three full seasons, which for a player of Newsom's caliber -- he called himself the ''quintessential antiprospect'' -- is unlikely.
 The average major league career lasts between four and five seasons and the average salary stands at $2.8 million. But those figures are boosted by the small minority of players who play seven-plus years and score eight- or nine-figure contracts. Most earn around $450,000 a year for a few seasons -- when they are among the 10 percent of minor league hopefuls who reach the big leagues even for one day.
 Then again, under Newsom's structure, a $100 investment in Mike Piazza when he was a lowly Dodgers farmhand in 1990 would have ultimately been worth about $6,000.
 ''If you're looking at this solely as an investment opportunity, then we're probably not the place for you,'' Newsom said. ''We want to add to the spectating experience for fans, and at the same time do something good for the players.''
 Newsom's plan, first reported by Baseball Prospectus and picked up by several other Web sites, caused a stir among club executives. A minor league player's selling a piece of future earnings probably runs afoul of major league guidelines designed to insulate players from gamblers, as well as union rules regarding payments to and from agents.
 Officials at M.L.B. and the union would say only that they were aware of Newsom's idea and were discussing its ramifications.
 If nothing else, Newsom's venture highlights minor leaguers' hidden financial hardships. Their annual salaries must cover housing, meals, clubhouse dues and more, leaving many minor leaguers -- some of whom support families -- sharing two-bedroom apartments with three or four teammates. Jon Searles, a pitcher in the San Diego Padres system last season, joked that a trip to Quiznos was ''living large.''
 Searles said he loved Newsom's plan from a player and fan standpoint. But Searles, who also happens to have an economics degree from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, had some concerns about whether Newsom could attract blue-chip, profitable prospects to participate.
 ''Don't get me wrong -- $50,000 can be everything to a player in the minor leagues,'' Searles said. ''But the risk of them committing 5 percent in perpetuity for a quick $50,000, there's a break-even point where only players who aren't characterized as prospects might do it. And rational investors will assess those percentages.''
 Newsom has heard the doubters and insisted his well-meaning idea is only emerging from its cocoon. He has been a little distracted, too -- he has also been studying for his Law School Admission Test on Saturday.
 ''I'm hoping I don't have to go to law school until I finish my career at 40 or 42,'' Newsom said with a laugh. ''We'll see.''
 His shareholders may be watching.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Randy Newsom has sold about 1,800 shares of himself at $20 apiece, uniting his goals with investors who hope he makes it big someday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); SPORTS FANS (89%); BONDS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); ROYALTIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (93%); NEW YORK METS (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%) OHIO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



9 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Firms Beat Deadline, Adding Gifts for '09 City Races

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
The real estate industry, racing to beat strict new limits on campaign contributions, has been flooding New York City candidates with donations for the 2009 campaign at a rate three and four times that in previous election cycles. 
 The industry, which looks to City Hall for everything from zoning changes to tax breaks, is traditionally a dependable source of cash for city election candidates. But with new regulations set to take effect starting on Saturday, donations have soared. 
 The New York Times examined contributions from executives and others affiliated with 25 of the city's most prominent property management, brokerage and real estate development firms. 
 The companies together had given more than $1 million by Jan. 15, the most recent reporting deadline for the 2009 election. Those same firms had given $239,000 by the same point in January 2004 and $348,000 by January 2000. 
 The giving reflects a broader trend: Over all, candidates have raised about $28.8 million to date for the 2009 race, up from $12.2 million in 2001 and $8 million in 2005, according to the city's Campaign Finance Board.
 The surge is driven in large part by a major overhaul in the city's campaign finance law, which, starting this month, will cap contributions for people who do business with the city at less than a tenth of what is allowed now. That means many developers, brokers, landlords and contractors will be limited to giving $400 to a mayoral candidate, compared with $4,950 now.
 ''They've got to get the money to the potential elected officials, so they've got to pump this money out as fast as they can,'' said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor of public policy at Baruch College. 
 The changes, aimed at reducing the influence of big money in elections, are set to be phased in over the next 10 months as the city creates databases to monitor donors.
 The real estate industry will be most affected in the final phase, set to begin in December, which applies to anyone involved in land use decisions. But firms signing or renewing city leases or seeking economic development agreements could be affected in the first and second phases, which take effect this Saturday and in August.
 Some industry officials say that candidates have used the looming restrictions as a way to aggressively solicit money now. The changes, which the City Council passed in June, have caused broad confusion and worry among firms that do business with the city, and some lobbyists have discussed filing a legal challenge to block it.
 ''Even while the bill was still being discussed, the candidates would say, 'Well, we don't know what's going to happen after January, so you have to give us the money now,' '' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, a trade group and lobbying arm for the industry.
 The major real estate firms examined by The Times are spreading money generously and in similar amounts to those considered the leading contenders for mayor: Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, Representative Anthony D. Weiner and City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., with Ms. Quinn collecting the most of the three. 
 But no one has attracted more real estate money than Councilwoman Melinda Katz, who has used her perch as chairwoman of the powerful Land Use Committee, which must approve all major projects and zoning changes, to assemble a Who's Who of industry supporters. A candidate for city comptroller, Ms. Katz, a Queens Democrat, received $196,266 from the 25 firms examined by The Times.
 ''No matter who gives to you, there's going to be a perception,'' she said. ''But I think the perception I have is: These are folks that care deeply about the future of New York. They have an interest in making sure the economy of this city is strong and remains viable. And if they have faith that I may be the one able to provide that, then that's not a bad perception.''
 The real estate industry is coming off a period of not only extraordinary growth in the city, but also exceptional cooperation from City Hall. Daniel L. Doctoroff, who stepped down as deputy mayor for economic development on Jan. 11, recently boasted at a meeting of Brooklyn leaders that the Bloomberg administration was 78-0 in pushing zoning changes through the City Council.
 ''At least until recently the industry had been in a remarkable period in its history,'' said Kenneth K. Fisher, a land-use lawyer with the firm of Wolf, Block, Schorr & Solis-Cohen and a former City Council member. ''And I think a lot of industry players wanted to encourage that so that it continues, so they are supporting people who they feel will be supportive of continued development.''
 That cooperation could be even more critical as the credit market continues to slump, which could force many developers to seek more generous tax and subsidy packages from the city. 
 Among the biggest contributors are companies engaged in pivotal development battles. The most money was given by Rudin Management, run by one of the royal families of New York real estate. The company, which appears headed for a major landmarks fight over the redevelopment of St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan and the surrounding area in Greenwich Village, had given $199,600 to a dozen candidates by Jan. 15, an increase of 45 percent over the firm's contributions in the entire 2001 and 2005 elections combined. 
 In a move that is common in the industry, Rudin contributed $29,700 equally to the three leading mayoral contenders. While corporate donations are prohibited under the city's campaign finance laws, the contributions were given through six family members and executives associated with the firm. William C. Rudin, president of the firm, did not return phone calls seeking comment for this article. 
 Though all three candidates disagree with the industry on some issues, including rent regulations, all have shown a willingness to work with it on critical matters, Mr. Spinola said. More important, he added, ''none of them have been at war with us.'' 
 Related Companies, a co-developer (with Vornado Realty Trust) behind the plan to rebuild Pennsylvania Station, and which is vying to redevelop the West Side railyards, was next on the list. Related's chairman, Stephen M. Ross, and other employees had contributed $143,200 to nine city candidates. That was more than four times what he and his employees had contributed by the same period in the 2001 elections. 
 Jeffrey R. Gural, chairman of the brokerage firm of Newmark Knight Frank, and other executives and employees associated with his firm had given at least $101,700 to a dozen candidates, compared with $24,000 at this point in the 2001 cycle. 
 Mr. Gural and Mr. Ross did not return calls seeking comment. 
 Representatives of Ms. Quinn's and Mr. Thompson's campaigns described real estate as just a small part of their efforts to get support from a broad base of industries and individuals. 
 Mr. Weiner also said the industry was just a part of his support, and described himself as pro-development. 
 ''I believe we need to keep growing this city,'' he said, ''and we need to keep growing in a way that protects our neighborhoods and our environment.'' 
 The sharp increases in giving come as an unusually large number of candidates are raising money earlier and more aggressively to fill a swath of city offices up for grabs in 2009 because of term limits. More than 100 candidates have already registered to raise funds, compared with 61 at this point in the 2001 cycle, an early start that some City Hall insiders also attribute to the coming campaign finance changes.
 Mr. Spinola said he suspected that once the initial rush of giving was over, the fund-raising totals for this cycle would largely resemble those in the 2001 election. That is considered most comparable because the offices of mayor, comptroller and public advocate will be open, along with at least four of the five borough presidencies and two-thirds of the Council seats.
 But several of the companies examined by The Times had already exceeded their 2001 total, including six of the top 10 contributors: Rudin, Related, Newmark, the Durst Organization, Two Trees Management and Taconic Investment Partners.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INCREASING CONTRIBUTION: With sharp limits on campaign contributions set to take effect this year, the real estate industry has been flooding New York City candidates with donations. Here's how donations from 25 of the most active firms compared with their giving in the 2001 election. (Source: New York Times analysis of data from the New York City Campaign Finance Board) (pg. B6) Chart showing political contributions from the real estate industry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MAYORS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



10 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: New Stadium Loses Its Cornerstone

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Minnesota Twins are building a ballpark that is expected to open in 2010.
 The Mets are erecting Citi Field in time to start play in 2009.
 Johan Santana will presumably be starting his second season in Flushing in 2009 thanks to being traded there Tuesday by Minnesota. His presence in New York will remind Twins fans of his 70-32 record and two Cy Young awards the last four seasons.
 If you love the Twins, you must wonder about the cruelty of new-stadium economics (and regional sports network finances, which I'll get to later). You follow a feisty, well-managed team that has done very well with modest revenues. And then, after a tortuous decade-long process, your team finally gets a new ballpark that would be the cash engine to keep your star players in town. But only a week after concrete had been poured for the new stadium's main concourse, your No. 1 pitcher, perhaps the best one in the major leagues, is dispatched to New York because he will cost too much. 
 In fairness, the Twins recently signed Justin Morneau to a six-year, $80 million contract, and Michael Cuddyer to a three-year, $24 million deal. But they also let Torii Hunter go to the Angels for an $80 million deal, and Carlos Silva signed with Seattle.
 ''If you're in Minnesota, I'd think that having the Twins ship out one of their blue-chip players who was a justification for building the ballpark might leave you feeling shortchanged,'' Mark Rosentraub, a professor at Cleveland State and an expert in stadium economics, said in a telephone interview Wednesday.
 He said the ballpark deal -- in which a countywide tax would pay about 75 percent of the cost, with the Twins kicking in the rest -- was enough to give Carl Pohlad, the nonagenarian billionaire owner, enough money to operate more than competitively.
 Rosentraub labeled Pohlad a ''profit maximizer,'' who would rather make money than win, unlike a ''welfare maximizer,'' unlike the win-first philosophy of George Steinbrenner.
 Forbes last year estimated Pohlad's net worth at $3.1 billion.
 The Mets have long been in baseball's council of the haves, even in frumpy Shea Stadium. They can afford Santana, Citi Field wealth or not. Citi Field will just make things more affordable. The ruling Wilpons can theoretically pledge the annual $20 million naming rights payment from Citigroup to pay for most or all of Santana's salary. 
 You can be certain the naming rights for the Twins' ballpark will not attract anything close to the Mets' deal.
 And that's part of the cruelty of new-stadium economics. Pittsburgh fans, for example, have learned that PNC Park has not been a financial salvation or the pathway to stocking up on talented, expensive players who will lead them to a winning season. In seven seasons at PNC Park, the Pirates have averaged 69 wins, and their attendance of 1.7 million last year was 28 percent below the 2001 opening-season peak of 2.4 million.
 The Pirates have never had a ''welfare maximizer'' spending what is necessary to win in a market unlike Boston, where cash-rich enhancements to old Fenway Park, and a wildly popular team, demonstrate the potency of wealthy owners in a major market.
 The Mets, the Red Sox and the Yankees also have what the Twins don't: their own regional sports networks with profit margins so high they're virtually printing cash.
 Santana represents a valuable asset to the Mets' SportsNet New York, which is entering its third season of operations. SNY's Mets games last season averaged a 3.3, the highest ever for the team's games on a regional sports network, and attracted 243,111 local households. The rating rose from a 2.9 on SNY in 2006, and a 1.5 on MSG and FSNY in 2005.
 Although it was no way to end a season, Mets fans were nonetheless riveted by last September's collapse. When the Mets lost a seven-game lead in the National League East, SNY averaged a 4.0 for its 14 games (the peak was a 5.8 for Florida's 8-7 win on Sept. 20) and Channel 11 averaged a 5.1 (the peak was a 6.8 for the decisive season finale, Florida's 8-1 win).
 ''There was such a taste of disappointment and a malaise going into this season,'' said Bob Gutkowski, the former president of the MSG Network and Madison Square Garden. ''For fans and for advertisers, it ended horribly, and it hurts your business. Bringing in Santana cauterizes the wound and really lets you go upward quickly. I think there'd be real pressure on ratings if they hadn't gotten Santana.''
 If you are inclined to believe a theory advanced by the agent Scott Boras on behalf of his client Alex Rodriguez, Santana might be an ''Iconic-Performance-Network'' player who not only produces wonderfully on the field, but also generates revenues for the team by luring more fans to the stadium and increases the value of its TV network. 
 Santana wouldn't be the only factor (any more than A-Rod solely raised the wealth of the Yankees and YES), but he will be a primary reason for disgruntled fans to return to Shea (and the doubtlessly more expensive Citi Field) and to watch SNY.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Johan Santana is apparently leaving the Twins just as they are beginning to build a new ballpark. JIM MCISAAC/GETTY IMAGES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (95%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); SPORTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (94%); NEW YORK METS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



11 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Russia Creates $32 Billion Fund for Foreign Investment

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russia has split its oil proceeds into two funds and cleared the way for one to invest in foreign stocks and bonds, officials said Thursday. But actual investments are not expected to begin until fall at the earliest.
 The move sets up an investment pool with $32 billion, rivaling big American hedge funds and offering another sign of the dizzying wealth these days of oil-producing countries like Russia. 
 Officials here are already moving to address possible concerns from regulators in the United States and Europe about a government entity investing on the stock exchanges with such large resources. 
 A deputy finance minister, Dmitry V. Pankin, offered assurances in an interview Thursday that the new fund would serve purely economic goals. ''What are they worried about, foreign investment coming to their country?'' Mr. Pankin said of critics in Western countries. ''They should not worry, they should hope.''
 Over four years of rising crude oil prices, Russia accumulated $157 billion in its oil proceeds fund, one of 40 or so sovereign wealth funds worldwide with a total of $2.5 trillion under management. 
 One of the new funds, now called the Reserve Fund, will retain the initial purpose of insuring the Russian budget against a steep fall in oil prices. It will hold $125 billion and be maintained at a size roughly 10 percent of Russia's gross domestic product, as it is now. 
 The other, the Fund for National Well-Being, with $32 billion, is intended to buoy the pension system as the Russian population ages and the share of those working shrinks. Under a law passed last spring, the new fund can be invested in foreign stocks and bonds.
 Yet at least until September, Mr. Pankin said, the finance ministry will retain the money in a central bank account that pays interest at a rate equivalent to the returns of foreign government bonds -- the same conservative investment the government chooses for the Reserve Fund. 
 ''The law allows us wider possibilities for investment,'' Mr. Pankin said. ''But for now, we don't use these possibilities.''
 A more aggressive investment strategy is being held up, he said, by a lack of agreement within the government on the fund's investment horizon -- when the money will be withdrawn for use in the budget. By September, he said, the cabinet can be expected to approve a strategy, opening the door for possible overseas investments. 
 Russia's old fund had returns of 10.75 percent in dollar terms based on the interest rates paid by the nation's central bank, mirroring returns on American and European government bonds. 
 The new fund represents about 7 percent of Russia's total gold and hard-currency reserves, and it forms a large and concentrated pool of capital. 
 A deputy American Treasury secretary, Robert M. Kimmitt, wrote in the January/February issue of Foreign Affairs that sovereign wealth funds should be welcomed to the United States as stable long-term investors that help increase stock prices and reduce volatility. He noted risks, including the possibility that foreign intelligence agencies would provide nonpublic information to the managers of such funds to assist their investing decisions. 
 Russian investing has already encountered criticism in European Union countries. The state-owned natural gas monopoly Gazprom is buying gas pipelines and storage facilities in Europe; officials there have suggested that the company was operating from foreign policy motives rather than economic ones when it shut off gas to Ukraine in 2006 after the election of a pro-Western government. Gazprom said it was a purely commercial matter. 
 Mr. Pankin said the finance ministry had not yet decided whether it would hire an outside fund manager. That has not stopped banks from making proposals, he said. 
 A manager will be chosen only when the fund begins investing in corporate debt and securities, he said, as the ministry does not need assistance in buying government bonds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); LEGISLATION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



12 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Petty Already Rocking Long Before Halftime

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
The Giants and the New England Patriots will be busy fine-tuning their game plans Sunday when the halftime entertainment, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, takes the stage for a 12-minute set. 
 Patriots Coach Bill Belichick, a self-avowed fan of the band, was not going to be summarily denied this high note of Super Bowl XLII. He said he would play Petty's songs in his office while he prepared for his fourth Super Bowl in seven seasons. 
 Petty, who met with the news media Thursday, smiled when told his work was serving as Belichick's soundtrack for this Super Bowl. ''Well, it's never kept anyone from winning,'' Petty said. 
 With his shoulder-length sandy blond hair and mosslike beard, the drumstick-thin Petty looked like a twig from Patriots left tackle Matt Light's family tree. Petty's resemblance to an athlete apparently begins and ends there. Growing up, Petty said, ''I was a very poor athlete.'' 
 He does not profess to be an avid sportsman, although he has not lost his Florida roots. ''In the college division we favor the Gators,'' said the 57-year-old Petty, who grew up in Gainesville. 
 Patriots tight end Kyle Brady said he could not hear a Petty song without being transported back to the summers of his Pennsylvania adolescence, when he and four buddies would squeeze into a red Nissan Sentra and drive to the beach in Ocean City, Md. 
 ''That was the big spot for the high school and college kids to go down to the first couple weeks in June,'' Brady, 36, said. ''And I still remember: we'd listen to his songs, like 'Runnin' Down a Dream' the whole way down to the beach, and it was great.'' 
 Brandon London, a 23-year-old receiver on the Giants' practice squad, was asked if he had any Petty tunes on his iPod playlist. ''Who is Tom Petty?'' he said. ''Isn't he the racecar driver?'' 
 BURRESS SITS OUT AGAIN Giants wide receiver Plaxico Burress missed his second consecutive practice Thursday, this time because of swelling and soreness in his left knee, according to the pool reporter at the session.
 Burress did not practice Wednesday because of his chronic right ankle injury. On Thursday, he stretched and attempted to run a few pass routes before spending the remainder of the nearly two-hour session in the training room.
 ''Who knows, it may be related,'' Giants Coach Tom Coughlin said of Burress's knee and ankle issues. ''It's a matter of how fast the swelling goes down so he can deal with it.''
 Coughlin said he was hopeful that Burress would feel better for Friday's practice. 
 THAYER EVANS
 LABOR CONTRACT AT ISSUEGene Upshaw, the head of the N.F.L. players association, said at a news conference that he would prepare players for the possibility of a strike or decertification if owners chose to opt out of the current labor contract this year. 
 The deal, struck in March 2006 after arduous negotiations, granted players 60 percent of revenue, putting the salary cap at $107 million in 2007 and a projected $116 million in 2008. But the deal also gave each side the right to opt out in November 2008. That would mean the contract would expire in 2011, and the 2010 season would be an uncapped year. 
 The N.F.L. has not had a work stoppage since 1987, but several owners -- including the Patriots' Robert K. Kraft -- have said that the current deal has given too much to the players. 
 ''For 20 years, it's been balanced,'' Kraft said Wednesday. ''Now it's a little one-sided. It's got to be recalibrated. There is a lot of hard work to be done.''
 Upshaw said: ''When I hear it's not working, that the partnership needs to be adjusted -- whenever I hear those words, it always means 'Give us something back.' That's not going to happen on this watch. 
 ''We're not going to agree to a deal that rolls back the economics. We're not hockey players. They're not hockey owners. The economics in this league are good and getting better. Players should get their fair share.''
 JUDY BATTISTA 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



13 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Coins in the New Realm

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD 

 BODY:
Xavier Buck planned to spend $100,000 to bid for domain names, those parcels of virtual Internet real estate, at a live auction here last week.
 He blew past his limit in less than an hour.
 By the time the three-hour auction had ended, Mr. Buck, the chief executive of the Luxembourg-based company EuroDNS, had spent $150,000 for 15 appealingly generic names, including 7th.com, chaptereleven.com, microfinancing.com and computersystems.com.
 ''These names will pay for themselves within two years,'' Mr. Buck said, as he sat in the ballroom of the Renaissance Hotel with a business partner who wore an identical gray suit and shirt with the company logo. ''The world is only now beginning to discover how important it is to have these assets.''
 For the first time, people outside the traditionally insular and sometimes underground world of domainers, as they call themselves, might agree with him. 
 The practitioners' fundamental assertion -- that names of Web sites can be valuable, cash-generating assets just like stocks, bonds or property -- appears to be gaining a broader acceptance that veteran domainersare not accustomed to and may not be totally comfortable with.
 Mr. Buck and other domainers profit when inexperienced Internet users type those names into their Web browsers, and once on the site click on related advertisements. In the longer term, they hope to resell their domain names for large profits to companies that want to build real businesses with those Web addresses.
 Domainers have generally had a negative reputation. Domain-name trading takes little of the actual effort needed to build a business on the Web, instead relying on clicks from people who simply guess at a site's name or are too lazy to use a search engine. In its early years, the field was dominated by offshore players and secretive, if not illegal, tactics. 
 But increasingly, there is serious money at stake. Last year, 106 domain names drew more than $100,000 each, and one, porn.com, went for nearly $9.5 million. In 2006, only 70 domain names sold for more than six figures each. Millions of generic domain names, pointing to sites with little more than automated Google or Yahoo text ads, brought in untold millions of dollars.
 As a result, over the last few months, private equity and venture capital firms have poured money into the largest companies in the field. Last year, Demand Media and Oversee.net, two companies based in Los Angeles that own hundreds of thousands of domain names each and offer hosting and advertising services to other domainers, raised nearly $400 million from investors. 
 ''We think this is definitely a legitimate industry and a legitimate business,'' said Robert L. Morse Jr., a partner at Oak Hill Capital Partners, which invested in both companies and is backed by the Bass oil family of Texas. ''As with many early-stage markets, it is going through a transformation to professionalism.''
 Investors are so confident in the growth of online advertising -- and the ability of domainers to capitalize on that trend -- that they plan to soon start selling shares of domain-name companies to the public, even in today's volatile market. Last September, NameMedia, a company based in Waltham, Mass., which has a huge portfolio of generic domain names, filed to go public on the Nasdaq stock market.
 ''This industry could probably be an oasis, in the grand scheme of things, relative to the rest of the economy,'' said David Liu, managing director at Jefferies & Company, one of the firms underwriting the offering. 
 The domainers now have their own trade group in Washington -- albeit with only one full-time employee. They also have specialized financiers who will lend money and accept domain names as collateral.
 ''The industry was very secretive for a long time,'' said Frank Schilling, an industry pioneer who hit it big with bare-bones Web destinations like drugproblem.com and diamondweddingrings.com. ''When you make millions at home in your underwear, you are not telling a soul about it,'' he said.
 Mr. Schilling traveled from his home on Grand Cayman Island to speak at last week's DomainFest conference, sponsored by Oversee.net, on his private Gulfstream IV jet, with a leisurely stop in Las Vegas.
 But like other veterans, Mr. Schilling does not appear to be completely enthusiastic about the business's new direction. ''These shows let everyone know how good it is, and now the sniff is out,'' he said. ''The wildcatting days are over. I'd be lying if I said I didn't miss them.''
 The industry's transition to respect and professionalism may not be entirely complete. One strategy that has cast a stigma over the industry is called typo-squatting -- registering domain names with variations and misspellings of major brand names, in the hopes that Web users will inadvertently stumble upon the sites. It has not gone away.
 In the last few months, Yahoo, Dell, BMW and Microsoft have all sued small domain registrars and domainers, asserting that they are profiting from thousands of names similar to their trademarks. The cases are pending.
 Another questionable tactic is known as domain tasting. Domainers register Web addresses in bulk and, during a five-day trial period, test how ads do on those sites. They then let go of the unprofitable ones and get a full refund. Google and an organization called Icann, the nonprofit group that oversees the domain name system, have recently announced plans to combat the practice.
 Domain hijacking is another strategy. Susan Kawaguchi, global domain name manager at eBay, said during a DomainFest session on domain strategies for corporations that her company spent a lot of time ''trying to make sure someone doesn't steal ebay.com.''
 Mr. Morse of Oak Hill Capital said the business was ''in its teenage years.'' He added: ''It is mature in many ways, but there are pockets of it that are still juvenile.''
 A two-year-old specialty finance company called Domain Capital, based in Fort Lee, N.J., is betting that the practice's tarnished reputation will not stop domain names from appreciating. The firm expects to lend around $20 million this year to domainers, accepting their choicest generic domain names as collateral.
 Robert Alfano, the company's co-founder, says he spends much of his time talking to Wall Street banks about backing his business model. Persuading traditional investors to view domain names as an asset is not easy, he said. ''But the industry is growing up and all the negative connotations have sifted out.''
 As the business matures, some of the smaller players worry they might get trampled. Don Bowman, a former auto liquidator from Columbus, Ohio, runs a domain-buying business with his sister, choosing names that might be culturally or politically relevant, like obamahillary.com and bloombergrice.com.
 Mr. Bowman said the larger companies were developing sophisticated software to buy desirable domain names as soon as they become available, leaving little operations like his in the dust. 
 ''Big changes are coming, and for the little guy it's getting challenging,'' he said. ''The bigger companies can do things, and I can't. We just have to work harder.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about the business of buying and selling Internet domain names described incorrectly the investments of one private equity firm that has backed companies in the field. The firm, Oak Hill Capital Partners, invested in one such company, Oversee.net, but it did not invest in another, Demand Media. (A similarly named company, Oak Investment Partners, invested in Demand Media.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An auction of Internet domain names on Jan. 22 at a Hollywood hotel. The business has been shedding its negative image.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
 A bidder at a domain-name auction at a Hollywood hotel. The practice is starting to draw the interest of private equity firms.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DOMAIN NAMES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BONDS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); VENTURE CAPITAL (61%); MICROFINANCE (56%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



14 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: From the Housing Market To the Maternity Ward

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
For the first time in 35 years, America's total fertility rate -- the estimated number of children a woman will have in her lifetime -- reached 2.1, the theoretical level required to maintain the country's population, according to recent data from the National Center for Health Statistics. 
 Demographers caution that it is too soon to say whether the increase is a blip or a trend, or to determine its causes, which may include changes in the economy, immigration and the availability of abortion. ''All this could turn around on a dime,'' said Stephanie J. Ventura, chief of the reproductive statistics branch of the statistics center.
 But at a time when no cocktail conversation is complete without a discussion of real estate, the boomlet raises a question that has long interested social scientists: What is the relationship between fertility and real estate? 
 In the wide-open mortgage climate early this decade, creative loan products allowed more people than ever to buy homes, often a precursor to having children. In 2006, the babies arrived -- a reminder, perhaps, that if you build it, they will toddle. 
 Is real estate destiny? 
 ''It's something a bunch of us have been thinking about,'' said Morris A. Davis, an assistant professor of real estate and urban land economics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Business. ''If you reduce down-payment constraints, more people can buy homes, or buy bigger homes. Does that encourage them to have more kids? I would say nobody knows.''
 Social scientists have long traced a connection between housing and fertility. When homes are scarce or beyond the means of young couples, as in the 1930s, couples delay marriage or have fewer children. This tendency helps account for the relatively dismal birth rates of many developed nations, said Robert Engelman, vice president for programs at the Worldwatch Institute, an environmental research organization, and author of the forthcoming ''More: Population, Nature, and What Women Want.'' 
 ''One reason there are so few children in Italy is that housing is so hard to come by,'' Mr. Engelman said. ''Houses are bigger in the U.S. and generally more available. That may help explain why Americans have more babies.''
 Several population specialists emphasized that housing is just one influence on fertility, and difficult to tease out from other factors, like income or optimism. ''If you lower the cost of housing, you're going to lower the cost of raising a child,'' said Seth Sanders, director of the Maryland Population Research Center at the University of Maryland. ''But if you look at how much it costs to raise a child, only one-third of the cost is housing. So my guess is that the impact is not very large.''
 But Matthew E. Kahn, an economist at the Institute of the Environment at the University of California, Los Angeles, suggested another way housing trends might be complicit in the baby boomlet of 2006. For decades, Americans have built increasingly bigger houses, even as family size declined. Bigger houses mean incentives to stay home and fructify, Mr. Kahn said. 
 ''Those ARM-financed McMansions are in the middle of nowhere, where land is cheap,'' he said, using the acronym for adjustable-rate mortgage. ''That increases the time it takes to get to work, meaning it raises the cost for women to go to work. That should increase fertility.''
 The 4,265,996 babies born in 2006, the most since 1961, reflect increases in birth rates for women in all parts of the country and nearly every demographic group studied -- including teenagers, whose rate had dropped every year since 1991. The only decline was among girls under 15. 
 But that does not mean the new arrivals look like their parents' generation. For starters, they are much more likely to be Hispanic, to live in a red state and to be part of an evangelical Christian family. 
 Hispanic women in 2006 gave birth at a rate corresponding to lifetime averages of 2.96 children per woman, compared with 2.11 for non-Hispanic black women and 1.86 for non-Hispanic whites. The fertility rates for Hispanic immigrants were higher than those in many of their countries of origin, including Mexico, where the rate is 2.4, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. 
 General birth rates were highest in Republican strongholds like Utah (94.1 births per 1,000 women), Arizona (81.6), Idaho (80.9) and Texas (78.8). They were lowest in states won by John Kerry in 2004, including Vermont (52.2), New Hampshire (53.4), Maine (54.5), Rhode Island (54.6) and Massachusetts (57). The rate in New York was 61.1, well below the national average of 68.5. The rate in New Jersey was 64.4; in Connecticut, 58.8.
 The report does not include information on religion or socioeconomic status, but researchers have long linked religious observance and affiliation with higher rates of fertility, even attributing the growth of evangelical churches and decline of mainline Protestant churches to differences in fertility rates. 
 In a 2007 survey by the Pew Research Center, 79 percent of evangelicals said they had children, compared with 73 percent of nonevangelical Protestants and 62 percent of those who described themselves as secular. For Catholics and Protestants, the more often they attended services, the more likely they were to have children.
 Ms. Ventura of the health statistics center said it was unusual that 2006 birth rates rose for both teenagers and older women. In the past, a strong economy ''contributed to a decline in the teenage birth rate, because they saw they could get good jobs, so they put off childbirth,'' she said. ''For older people, a good economy makes them say, 'We can afford to have another child.' '' 
 With their low birth rates, Europe, Japan, China and parts of the Middle East face the burden of shrinking productive work forces and aging populations (a vicious cycle: gloomy economic prospects lead to low birth rates, which lead to gloomy economic prospects). For the United States, then, the boomlet is a healthy sign, said Michael Rendall, director of the Population Research Center at the RAND Corporation, a research group. ''It's not a huge amount, but it's a sign in a positive direction. Timing is very important.'' 
 Mr. Rendall considered the cohort born in 1960, at the height of the baby boom. In 2040, when that group turns 80, the people born in 2006 will be in their prime earning years, he said. ''The baby boom peak will be benefiting from 34-year-olds born in 2006. They'll be in the labor force just in time.''
 The recent downturn in the economy and the housing market bodes poorly for a continued boomlet. Last year, the National Association of Home Builders reported that houses had stopped growing. Foreclosures discourage people from having children. ''What could be happening now is that people will have wealth shock, and reduce need for everything, including children,'' said Mr. Sanders of the Maryland Population Research Center.
 Which would drive down house prices, making homes more affordable. Which could start the cycle again. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: MORE BIRTHS IN 2006: The fertility rate in the United States grew to an estimated 2.1 children for every woman of child-bearing age in 2006, the highest level since the 1970s. (Source: National Center for Health Statistics) Graph showing an increase in births in 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FERTILITY RATES (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PARENTING (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); ABORTION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); IMMIGRATION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (74%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



15 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Drawn and Quartered

BYLINE: By SELIG S. HARRISON. 
Selig S. Harrison is the director of the Asia program at the Center for International Policy and the author of ''In Afghanistan's Shadow,'' a study of Baluch nationalism.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 WHATEVER the outcome of the Pakistani elections, now scheduled for Feb. 18, the existing multiethnic Pakistani state is not likely to survive for long unless it is radically restructured. 
 Given enough American pressure, a loosely united, confederated Pakistan could still be preserved by reinstating and liberalizing the defunct 1973 Constitution, which has been shelved by successive military rulers. But as matters stand, the Punjabi-dominated regime of Pervez Musharraf is headed for a bloody confrontation with the country's Pashtun, Baluch and Sindhi minorities that could well lead to the breakup of Pakistan into three sovereign entities. 
 In that event, the Pashtuns, concentrated in the northwestern tribal areas, would join with their ethnic brethren across the Afghan border (some 40 million of them combined) to form an independent ''Pashtunistan.'' The Sindhis in the southeast, numbering 23 million, would unite with the six million Baluch tribesmen in the southwest to establish a federation along the Arabian Sea from India to Iran. ''Pakistan'' would then be a nuclear-armed Punjabi rump state. 
 In historical context, such a breakup would not be surprising. There had never been a national entity encompassing the areas now constituting Pakistan, an ethnic melange thrown together hastily by the British for strategic reasons when they partitioned the subcontinent in 1947. 
 For those of Pashtun, Sindhi and Baluch ethnicity, independence from colonial rule created a bitter paradox. After resisting Punjabi domination for centuries, they found themselves subjected to Punjabi-dominated military regimes that have appropriated many of the natural resources in the minority provinces -- particularly the natural gas deposits in the Baluch areas -- and siphoned off much of the Indus River's waters as they flow through the Punjab. 
 The resulting Punjabi-Pashtun animosity helps explain why the United States is failing to get effective Pakistani cooperation in fighting terrorists. The Pashtuns living along the Afghan border are happy to give sanctuary from Punjabi forces to the Taliban, which is composed primarily of fellow Pashtuns, and to its Qaeda friends. 
 Pashtun civilian casualties resulting from Pakistani and American air strikes on both sides of the border are breeding a potent underground Pashtun nationalist movement. Its initial objective is to unite all Pashtuns in Pakistan, now divided among political jurisdictions, into a unified province. In time, however, its leaders envisage full nationhood. After all, before the British came, the Pashtuns had been politically united under the banner of an Afghan empire that stretched eastward into the Punjabi heartland. 
 The Baluch people, for their part, have been waging intermittent insurgencies since their forced incorporation into Pakistan in 1947. In the current warfare Pakistani forces are widely reported to be deploying American-supplied aircraft and intelligence equipment that was intended for use in Afghan border areas. Their victims are forging military links with Sindhi nationalist groups that have been galvanized into action by the death of Benazir Bhutto, a Sindhi hero as was her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
 The breakup of Pakistan would be a costly and destabilizing development that can still be avoided, but only if the United States and other foreign donors use their enormous aid leverage to convince Islamabad that it should not only put the 1973 Constitution back into effect, but amend it to go beyond the limited degree of autonomy it envisaged. Eventually, the minorities want a central government that would retain control only over defense, foreign affairs, international trade, communications and currency. It would no longer have the power to oust an elected provincial government, and would have to renegotiate royalties on resources with the provinces.
 In the shorter term, the Bush administration should scrap plans to send Special Forces into border areas in pursuit of Al Qaeda, which would only strengthen Islamist links with Pashtun nationalists. It should help secular Pashtun forces to compete with the Islamists by pushing for fair representation of Pashtun areas now barred from political participation. 
 It is often argued that the United States must stand by Mr. Musharraf and a unitary Pakistani state to safeguard Pakistan's nuclear arsenal. But the nuclear safeguards depend on the Pakistani Army as an institution, not on the president. They would not be affected by a break-up, since the nuclear weapons would remain under the control of the Punjabi rump state and its army.
 The Army has built up a far-flung empire of economic enterprises in all parts of Pakistan with assets in the tens of billions, and can best protect its interests by defusing the escalating conflict with the minorities. Similarly, the minorities would profit from cooperative economic relations with the Punjab, and for this reason prefer confederal autonomy to secession. All concerned, including the United States, have a profound stake in stopping the present slide to Balkanization. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EMILIANO PONZI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); ETHNICITY (74%); HISTORY (72%); TERRORISM (62%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (75%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



16 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Today In Business

 BODY:
CHINESE GOODS LESS CHEAP China's latest export is inflation. After falling for years, prices of Chinese goods sold in the United States have risen for the last eight months. 
 As blizzards in China disrupted coal deliveries, acute electricity shortages exposed the fragility of transportation networks in the world's fastest-growing major economy. [A8.] 
 GOOGLE PROFIT UP 17% Google said it had seen no impact from a slowing economy on its advertising business, reporting a 17 percent jump in profits and a 51 percent growth in revenue in the fourth quarter. But shares fell 6.8 percent in after-hours trading. [C1.] 
 THE SUN IS HIRING The solar power industry in California is blossoming, hiring additional workers to make and install solar panels. ''It's hard to find installers,'' said one executive. [C1.] 
 MARKETS REBOUND Investors took a fresh delivery of bad economic news in stride. After an initial drop, the stock market climbed back. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up more than 200 points, but the day ended the S.& P.'s fifth-worst January on record. [C1.] 
 TURNING DOT-COM INTO GOLD The world of domainers -- the people who invest in the names of Web sites, with the goal of turning those names into cash-generating assets -- is beginning to gain broader acceptance. [C1.] 
 OPEC WON'T RAISE PRODUCTION The OPEC oil cartel is expected to keep its output unchanged, rejecting calls to pump more oil into the economy. ''I don't see what increasing the supply of oil would do for the economy,'' said Chakib Khelil, above, OPEC's president. [C3.] 
 SENATE REPUBLICANS PREVAIL Republicans in the Senate vowed to block a $157 billion economic stimulus package championed by Senate Democrats, who said they would have no choice but to quickly adopt a cheaper plan approved by the House and supported by President Bush. [A12.] 
 BOND INSURER MAKES ITS CASE MBIA, the bond insurer that critics have described as effectively insolvent, presented a spirited defense in a call with analysts. Executives admitted mistakes but said the company would weather the current turmoil. Its shares later rose. [C6.] 
 AMAZON.COM BUYS AUDIBLE Amazon.com agreed to buy Audible, the largest online seller of audiobooks, for $300 million in cash. The deal will add Audible's products -- a library of 80,000 spoken-word products -- to Amazon's nascent digital media offerings, which include movies, TV shows and music. [C5.] 
 battle over Societe Generale As European banks consider making a bid for Societe Generale, reeling from a $7.1 billion trading loss, regulators in Brussels warned the French government against trying to protect the bank from suitors. [C3.] 
 RUSSIAN INVESTMENT POOL Russia has split its oil proceeds into two funds and cleared the way for one to become a $32 billion foreign investment pool rivaling big American hedge funds. The investment pool is another sign of the wealth of oil-producing countries like Russia. [C2.] 
 The head of China's $200 billion government investment fund said in Washington that China would invest mostly in portfolios rather than individual companies. [C2.] 
 A GOOD QUARTER FOR SONY
 Sony said its profit rose more than 25 percent in the final three months of 2007, helped by robust sales of televisions and computer games. But it said a strong yen and subprime problems would weigh on demand this year. [C4.] 
 TIMES COMPANY'S PROFIT
 The New York Times Company reported a fourth-quarter profit of $53 million as revenue dropped, but it continued to fare better than most of its peers across the troubled newspaper industry. [C7.] 
 TV STATIONS LOOK TO WEB Local television stations, which are increasingly looking to their Web sites for new sources of revenue, are buying syndicated programs to show on their Web sites and selling advertisements with those programs to local businesses. Advertising. [C7.] 
 INCREASE IN SUICIDE RISK Drugs for epilepsy, bipolar illness and mood problems double the risks of suicidal thoughts and behavior, and patients taking them should be watched for behavioral changes, drug regulators say. [A13.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); APPROVALS (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (65%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (81%); GOOGLE INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (81%); GLE (BIT) (81%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



17 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: A Green Energy Industry Takes Root Under the California Sun

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The sun is starting to grow jobs.
 While interest in alternative energy is climbing across the United States, solar power especially is rising in California, the product of billions of dollars in investment and mountains of enthusiasm.
 In recent months, the industry has added several thousand jobs in the production of solar energy cells and installation of solar panels on roofs. A spate of investment has also aimed at making solar power more efficient and less costly than natural gas and coal.
 Entrepreneurs, academics and policy makers say this era's solar industry is different from what was tried in the 1970s, when Jerry Brown, then the governor of California, invited derision for envisioning a future fueled by alternative energy. 
 They point to companies like SolarCity, an installer of rooftop solar cells based in Foster City. Since its founding in 2006, it has grown to 215 workers and $29 million in annual sales. ''It is hard to find installers,'' said Lyndon Rive, the chief executive. ''We're at the stage where if we continue to grow at this pace, we won't be able to sustain the growth.'' 
 SunPower, which makes the silicon-based cells that turn sunlight into electricity, reported 2007 revenue of more than $775 million, more than triple its 2006 revenue. The company expects sales to top $1 billion this year. SunPower, based in San Jose, said its stock price grew 251 percent in 2007, faster than any other Silicon Valley company, including Apple and Google. 
 Not coincidentally, three-quarters of the nation's demand for solar comes from residents and companies in California. ''There is a real economy -- multiple companies, all of which have the chance to be billion-dollar operators,'' said Daniel M. Kammen, a professor in the energy and resources group at the University of California, Berkeley. California, he says, is poised to be both the world's next big solar market and its entrepreneurial center.
 The question, Professor Kammen says, is: ''How can we make sure it's not just green elite or green chic, and make it the basis for the economy?''
 There also are huge challenges ahead, not the least of which is the continued dominance of fossil fuels. Solar represents less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the $3 trillion global energy market, leading some critics to suggest that the state is getting ahead of itself, as it did during the 1970s.
 The optimists say a crucial difference this time is the participation of private-sector investors and innovators and emerging technologies. Eight of more than a dozen of the nation's companies developing photovoltaic cells are based in California, and seven of those are in Silicon Valley. 
 Among the companies that academics and entrepreneurs believe could take the industry to a new level is Nanosolar, which recently started making photovoltaic cells in a 200,000-square-foot factory in San Jose. The company said the first 18 months of its capacity has already been booked for sales in Germany.
 ''They could absolutely transform the market if they make good on even a fraction of their goal for next year,'' Professor Kammen said. ''They're not just a new entrant, but one of the biggest producers in the world.''
 Many of the California companies are start-ups exploring exotic materials like copper indium gallium selenide, or CIGS, an alternative to the conventional crystalline silicon that is now the dominant technology. 
 The newcomers hope that CIGS, while less efficient than silicon, can be made far more cheaply than silicon-based cells. Indeed, the Nanosolar factory looks more like a newspaper plant than a chip-making factory. The CIGS material is sprayed onto giant rolls of aluminum foil and then cut into pieces the size of solar panels.
 Another example is Integrated Solar, based in Los Angeles, which has developed a low-cost approach to integrating photovoltaic panels directly into the roofs of commercial buildings.
 In 2007, 100 megawatts of solar generating capacity was installed in California, about a 50 percent increase over 2006, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group. 
 That growth rate is likely to increase, in part because of ambitious new projects like the 177-megawatt solar thermal plant that Pacific Gas and Electric said last November it would build in San Luis Obispo. 
 The plant, which will generate power for more than 120,000 homes beginning in 2010, will be built by Ausra, a Palo Alto start-up backed by the investor Vinod Khosla and his former venture capital firm, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.
 The industry in California is also helped by state and local governments' substantial subsidies to stimulate demand. The state has earmarked $3.2 billion to subsidize solar installation, with the goal of putting solar cells on one million rooftops. The state Assembly passed a law to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent by 2020, which could spur alternatives like solar.
 Additional incentives have come from a small but growing number of municipalities. The city of Berkeley will pay the upfront costs for a resident's solar installation and recoup the money over 20 years through additional property taxes on a resident's home. San Francisco is preparing to adopt its own subsidy that would range from $3,000 for a home installation to as much as $10,000 for a business.
 The subsidies have prompted a surge in private investment, led by venture capitalists. In 2007, these seed investors put $654 million in 33 solar-related deals in California, up from $253 million in 16 deals in 2006, according to the Cleantech Group, which tracks investments in alternative energy. California received roughly half of all solar power venture investments made in 2007 in the United States.
 ''We're just starting to see successful companies come out through the other end of that process,'' said Nancy C. Floyd, managing director at Nth Power, a venture capital firm that focuses on alternative energy. ''And through innovation and volume, prices are coming down.''
 Whether any of this investment pays off depends, as it did in previous eras, on reaching the point at which solar cells produce electricity as inexpensively as fossil fuels. The cost of solar energy is projected to fall steeply as cheaper new technology reaches economies of scale. Optimists believe that some regions in California could reach that point in half a decade.
 At present, solar power is three to five times as expensive as coal, depending on the technology used, said Dan Reicher, director for climate change and energy initiatives at Google.org, the philanthropic division of the Internet company. Among its investments, Google says, is $10 million in financing for eSolar, a company in Pasadena that builds systems that concentrate sunlight from reflecting mirrors. 
 ''We're at the dawn of a revolution that could be as powerful as the Internet revolution,'' Mr. Reicher said. The problem is, he said, ''renewable energy simply costs too much.''
 At a conference of alternative energy companies in San Francisco last month, to discuss how to encourage the industry's growth, Mr. Brown, the former governor, joked that if the participants wanted to make real headway selling alternative energy, they should try not to come off as flaky. ''Don't get too far ahead of yourselves,'' said Mr. Brown, now the state's attorney general. ''You will be stigmatized. Don't use too many big words and make it all sound like yesterday.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Rive of SolarCity, an installer of rooftop solar cells in California.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (95%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: SOLARCITY CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: SCTY (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



18 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Wyeth Posts 19% Higher Profit; 2 Rivals Fare Less Well

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The drug maker Wyeth posted a 19 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit on Thursday while AstraZeneca reported a 12.5 percent drop in profit and Bristol-Myers Squibb posted a loss, albeit a narrower one. 
 Bristol-Myers also took a hefty $275 million charge for losses on investments in securities backed by subprime mortgages.
 Wyeth, which is based in Madison, N.J., said its revenue rose 10 percent, and higher costs for materials were more than offset by lower spending on sales, administration and research.
 The company, which makes Effexor, the world's top-selling antidepressant, reported net income of $1.02 billion, or 75 cents a share, in the October-December quarter, up from $855.4 million, or 63 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Excluding an after-tax charge of $48 million, or 3 cents a share, for the company's three-year-old productivity initiative, net income would have been 78 cents a share. That just missed the 79-cent expectation of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, who typically exclude one-time items.
 But Wyeth said new generic competition for a key drug would keep total revenue flat this year, as it embarks on a sweeping reorganization.
 Bristol-Myers Squibb, which is based in New York, said that fourth-quarter losses narrowed on better sales of a key drug, Plavix. 
 The company said the charge for its losses on the subprime mortgage securities did not affect liquidity or financial flexibility, but that additional write-downs were possible if economic conditions worsen.
 ''Obviously if the credit crisis continues to expand across the market, there may be risk to some of our corporate bonds,'' said the company's chief financial officer, Andrew Bonfield.
 For the quarter ended Dec. 31, the New York-based company lost $89 million, or 5 cents a share, compared with a loss of $134 million, or 7 cents a share, a year ago, when sales of Plavix, a blood thinner, plunged. 
 Including earnings from its recently spun-off medical imaging business, earnings totaled 35 cents a share.
 Revenue rose 33 percent, to $5.38 billion, from $4.06 billion, as worldwide sales of Plavix nearly tripled to $1.37 billion. Worldwide pharmaceutical sales increased 39 percent, to $4.4 billion in the fourth quarter, helped by the weaker dollar.
 AstraZeneca, the British drug maker, said fourth-quarter profit fell 12.5 percent, to $1.27 billion, on restructuring and acquisition costs, as well as falling demand for Nexium and slowing sales growth of its Crestor cholesterol pill. Full-year profits fell 6.5 percent, to $7.98 billion.
 Still, AstraZeneca raised its outlook for 2008, forecasting core earnings of $4.40 to $4.70 a share, compared with $4.38 in 2007.
 AstraZeneca said it faced stiff competition in the United States for drugs like Nexium, which treats gastrointestinal problems. It bought MedImmune Inc., based in Gaithersburg, Md., in June for $15.6 billion to bolster its portfolio. Revenue rose 14 percent over the quarter, to $8.17 billion, and 7 percent over the year to $29.56 billion. 
 Wyeth shares closed down 3 cents, at $39.67. Bristol-Myers fell 24 cents, to $23.02, and AstraZeneca rose 8 cents, to $42.10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (87%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); ANTICOAGULANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (70%); US DOLLAR (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (98%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (85%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (98%); PFEB (BRU) (98%); PFE (NYSE) (98%); BMY (NYSE) (85%); AZN (STO) (85%); AZN (NYSE) (85%); AZN (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



19 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: The McCain Transition

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
John McCain is exhausted. He hasn't had a full-night's sleep in forever. It took him 10 hours to get to California because of flight trouble. He underperformed in the debate Wednesday night, as his staff understands. He took some shots at Mitt Romney that were gratuitous considering the circumstances, as he privately acknowledges.
 But somehow in the midst of all this frenzy, McCain has to transition from being an underdog to being a front-runner. He has to transition from being an insurgent to being the leader of a broad center-right coalition. He has to transition from being a primary season scrambler to offering a broader vision of how to unify the country. 
 By the end of next week, McCain could be the de facto leader of the Republican Party. The McCain staff is acutely aware of the responsibility this entails, and what it will take to operate at the next level.
 First, the tone of the campaign will have to change. In 2000, McCain was a joyful warrior. He was the guy rollicking through rallies waving a light saber and launching playful verbal assaults on the Bush empire. He was the guy filling his speeches with New Frontier rhetoric and glimpses of hopeful vistas. ''I believe we are an unfinished nation,'' he used to say. 
 But the Obama campaign feels more like McCain in 2000 than the current McCain campaign does. Barack Obama outshines McCain right now as the hopeful warrior. Obama is the one insistently calling on audiences to serve a cause greater than self-interest. He's the one transcending partisanship and telling young people that politics can be the means to a meaningful, purpose-driven life. 
 McCain seems to be burdened by the emotional cost of the war in Iraq, by the gravity of young people dying. But F.D.R. was a happy wartime campaigner and to compete with the Democrats in the fall, McCain will have to reconnect with the spirit of this moment. The country, the uber-pollster Peter Hart notes, is not in a mood for irritation and anger. It's thirsty for uplift, progress and hope. 
 Second, McCain will have to clarify his vision for the future. He talks about the struggle with Islamic extremists as the transcendent foreign policy challenge of our time. But there's a transcendent domestic challenge as well. America is segmenting. The country is dividing along the lines of education, income, religion, lifestyle and giving way to cynicism and mistrust. Government is distanced from the people and growing more corrupt. 
 In the past, McCain has said that repairing these divisions constitutes ''a new patriotic challenge for a new century.'' He has hinted at a philosophy that amounts to an American version of One Nation Conservatism. It emphasizes reforming federal institutions, calling on young people to perform national service, promoting economic competitiveness and enhancing social mobility. It is a mixture of Theodore Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan. This governing philosophy has lurked in the background this year, but McCain will have to make it explicit to move a nation.
 Finally, McCain is going to have to beef up his domestic policy offerings. He has some excellent ideas, like his plan to control health care costs, which he doesn't explain well. But he has not yet focused sufficiently on the group that is always the key to Republican success or failure -- the suburban working class.
 Picture a suburban townhouse community filled with families making $40,000 to $60,000 a year. Maybe there's a single mother in one unit who hates her job but needs the benefits. Maybe there are immigrant parents with associate degrees watching their son drop out of school in another. The definition of being middle class has changed, as many have noticed. It used to be a destination. Now it's an uncertain place. It's a struggle just to stay there. Any candidate who can't talk specifically to these concerns is doomed. 
 If McCain does well on Super Tuesday, he would have pulled off one of the greatest comeback stories in modern political history. He would owe his victory to his character, his honesty and his tenacity. 
 But already, he is being judged by different standards. Republicans are wondering how he would compete against Hillary Clinton (whom they moderately fear) and Obama (whom they fear a great deal). To unify the party, McCain will have to respect different parts of the coalition. But more importantly, he will also have to excite Republicans with the possibility of a G.O.P. victory. 
 He will have to mine his own past and bring forward the ideals and causes that lurk there, and present them as a coherent package. He'll have to show that winning the nomination of a dispirited Republican Party is one thing; winning the presidency and uniting a nation is another. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); IRAQ WAR (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); RELIGION (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITT ROMNEY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



20 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: As McCain Wins, Critics on Right Look Again

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain has long aroused almost unanimous opposition from the leaders of the right. Accusing him of crimes against conservative orthodoxy like voting against a big tax cut and opposing a federal ban on same-sex marriage, conservative activists have agitated for months to thwart his Republican presidential primary campaign. 
 That, however, was before he emerged this week as the party's front-runner.
 Since his victory in the Florida primary, the growing possibility that Mr. McCain may carry the Republican banner in November is causing anguish to the right. Some, including James C. Dobson and Rush Limbaugh, say it is far too late for forgiveness. 
 But others, faced with the prospect of either a Democrat sitting in the White House or a Republican elected without them, are beginning to look at Mr. McCain's record in a new light.
 ''He has moved in the right direction strongly and forcefully on taxes,'' said Grover Norquist, an antitax organizer who had been the informal leader of conservatives against a McCain nomination, adding that he had been talking to Mr. McCain's ''tax guys'' for more than a year.
 Tony Perkins, a prominent Christian conservative who has often denounced Mr. McCain, is warming up to him, too.
 ''I have no residual issue with John McCain,'' Mr. Perkins said, adding that the senator needed ''to better communicate'' his convictions on social issues. 
 Richard Land, an official of the Southern Baptist Convention and a longtime critic of Mr. McCain, agreed, saying, ''He is strongly pro-life.'' 
 ''When I hear Rush Limbaugh say that a McCain nomination would destroy the Republican Party,'' Dr. Land added, ''what I want to say to Rush is, 'You need to get out of the studio more and talk to real people.' ''
 How firmly conservatives reject or embrace Mr. McCain may be a pivotal variable, both in the homestretch of the Republican primary campaign, when Mitt Romney is hoping to rally conservatives to his side, and in the general election, when too much grumbling from the right in a close race could cost Mr. McCain the White House. 
 The McCain campaign, for its part, is doing remedial work on the right. On the day after the Florida primary, it announced that Mr. McCain would speak next week at the Conservative Political Action Conference, a major gathering held each year in Washington. 
 Last year, he drew barbs from the conservative news media for skipping the event while his Republican rivals all attended. His advisers now consider that a big mistake. 
 ''We recognize that conservatives will be instrumental to our victory in November and we are reaching out and taking their advice,'' said Jill Hazelbaker, a McCain spokeswoman.
 Many on the right, though, say Mr. McCain has a lot of explaining to do. Not only did he vote against President Bush's tax cuts and a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, Mr. McCain has also supported embryonic stem cell research and stricter environmental regulation. He fought for looser immigration rules. He championed campaign finance rules that many on the right consider a violation of free speech. And he made a deal with Democrats to break a deadlock on judicial nominations that many on the right considered near treasonous.
 Anger over that deal flared up again this week when a Wall Street Journal columnist, John Fund, reported that Mr. McCain had privately criticized Mr. Bush's Supreme Court nominee Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. because ''he wore his conservatism on his sleeve.'' 
 The McCain campaign quickly denied that he held such a view, noting that the senator voted for Mr. Alito's confirmation and routinely praises his selection on the stump. But conservative activists say the charges nonetheless reminded them of their doubts.
 ''Conservatives need to act now, before it is too late!'' Mark R. Levin, a movement veteran and talk-radio host, wrote on the Web site of National Review, urging a ''rally for Romney.'' The publication was host to an online debate on Wednesday on the question ''A Republican future with McCain?'' 
 A spokesman for Dr. Dobson, the influential evangelical Christian founder of Focus on the Family, said Wednesday that he stood by the position he staked out more than a year ago that as a matter of conscience he could never vote for Mr. McCain. 
 Nor has the small-government wing of the movement swung to Mr. McCain's side. ''I have yet to see McCain make any attempts to reach out to free market conservatives,'' said Pat Toomey, president of the antitax group Club for Growth, warning that ''if you have a big problem with a big part of your base, you really should be mending fences.''
 And in his broadcast on Thursday, Mr. Limbaugh escalated his attacks on Mr. McCain as an imposter in the party.
 ''McCain is in a lot of these places not actually the Republican candidate,'' Mr. Limbaugh said. ''He is the candidate of enough Republicans, but independents and moderates and probably even some liberals.'' 
 Mr. Limbaugh contended that such voters were deciding Republican primaries because other candidates had divided the conservative vote.
 Still, even Mr. McCain's most determined antagonists say the animosity among conservative leaders does not necessarily extend deep into the rank and file, where not many remember the details of Mr. McCain's views on campaign finance or judicial nomination procedures. ''It is kind of inside baseball,'' as Mr. Perkins put it.
 Mr. Limbaugh, Mr. Toomey and others are working hard to rally conservatives around Mr. Romney, who has campaigned as a by-the-book conservative despite a record of more liberal stances he took in campaigns for senator and governor in Massachusetts. 
 In contrast to Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney has convinced conservative leaders that he is on their side through assiduous, face-to-face courtship, but he has struggled to have the same success at the grass roots.
 Mr. Romney also faces the problem of Mike Huckabee's continuing campaign. A Southern Baptist pastor before he became governor of Arkansas, Mr. Huckabee has struck a chord with Christian conservatives, preventing Mr. Romney from bringing together economic and social conservatives opposed to Mr. McCain. 
 ''Romney and Huckabee divided the Bush vote,'' Mr. Norquist, the tax opponent, said. ''Bush was Romney and Huckabee in one body.''
 Meanwhile, conservatives are growing increasingly ''resigned'' to the idea of a McCain nomination, said David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union, adding that among Washington activists, many of whom, like him, double as lobbyists, self-interest may also be a factor. 
 ''There are people who don't like the idea of a being off a campaign or being on the bad list if the guy gets into the White House,'' Mr. Keene said. ''This is a town in which 90 percent of the people balance their access and income on the one hand versus their principles on the other.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES
GARY HE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MARK HUMPHREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JAMIE ROSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); RELIGION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (78%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



21 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Is Expected to Keep Oil Production Unchanged

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Ignoring calls from the United States and other consuming countries to pump more oil into the global economy, the OPEC oil cartel is expected to keep its output unchanged when the group's ministers meet in Vienna on Friday.
 With the United States seemingly heading toward a recession and global stock markets gyrating, OPEC is not contemplating an increase in oil production. In fact, it thinks it might soon have to cut its output to offset a seasonal demand slowdown in the spring. 
 As an indication of just how difficult their position is, representatives from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries met two months ago in Abu Dhabi and could not resolve a debate over whether to add more oil to the market. The group is scheduled to meet again next month at its secretariat in Vienna. At that point, energy analysts say the cartel is likely to cut output.
 Friday's meeting comes as economic troubles worsen in the United States. A decision not to raise output would most likely be seen as a rebuke to President Bush, who pleaded with King Abdullah, the Saudi monarch, last month to take action to help ease the effects of high oil prices on American consumers. 
 Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil exporter, is the de facto leader of OPEC and generally sets the group's agenda. Mr. Bush's visit to the Persian Gulf, which included a night on King Abdullah's farm, was followed by a trip to the region by Samuel W. Bodman, the energy secretary. An increase in OPEC's production could lower oil prices and ''that would help our economy,'' Mr. Bodman said on Tuesday after he returned to Washington.
 In Vienna, such public pressure appears to be having little effect. Chakib Khelil, the Algerian oil minister and OPEC's president this year, told reporters on Thursday: ''I don't see what increasing the supply of oil would do for the economy.'' 
 The group's 13 members, who account for about 40 percent of the world's oil exports, are less eager to reassure consumers than to avoid repeating the mistake of 1997, when the cartel increased output just as the Asian financial crisis was brewing. A result of that mistimed decision was that prices collapsed to about $10 a barrel, rattling oil producers.
 In past years, OPEC has reduced its output during the second quarter, after the end of the surge in winter demand and before consumption picks up again for the summer, when demand for gasoline is at its highest.
 ''There is no dilemma,'' said Roger Diwan, a partner at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. ''People assumed that OPEC's next move would be to increase output, but it is very clear from looking at market fundamentals that the next move for OPEC is a cut in production. The question is when, and how much.'' 
 But cutting supplies while prices remain high could prove politically tricky for the cartel. After briefly touching $100 a barrel twice this year, oil futures have since dropped by about 8 percent. On Thursday, crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 58 cents, to $91.75 a barrel. 
 This week, prices rebounded after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the second time in eight days, providing some hope that a recession could be avoided. 
 The economic outlook has undoubtedly darkened recently. The International Monetary Fund recently slashed its forecast for global growth this year. On Wednesday, a government report showed that the American economy had expanded at an annual rate of only 0.6 percent from October to December, half the rate that most economists had forecast.
 But the picture for the oil market is markedly different from the late 1990s. Thanks mostly to growth in China and the Middle East, oil demand is expected to increase by 1.2 million to 1.4 million barrels a day this year. Last year, global demand rose by 1 million barrels a day, or 1.2 percent, to 85.8 million barrels a day.
 Current growth in oil supplies remains sluggish. The combination of a tight market and geopolitical tensions in many of the world's top producers is keeping prices high. 
 Lately, some analysts have started to think that if the economy were to slow down, oil prices might not necessarily fall much. 
 In the last six recessions, oil demand in the United States has dropped by an average of 2.3 percent, according to Merrill Lynch. But the bank's energy analysts say they believe that ''the resilience of oil demand to a sharp downturn in the economy has increased over time.'' 
 ''This time around, any oil demand drop should be moderate,'' Merrill Lynch analysts wrote in a recent report. That is partly because the economy has become more efficient in its energy consumption, and partly because more than half the oil used in the United States goes to the transportation sector, where it is hard for consumers to cut back. 
 Still, high prices do appear to have shaved consumption growth in the United States. American oil demand was nearly flat last year, growing by a modest 45,000 barrels, or 0.2 percent, even as the economy grew 2.2 percent in inflation-adjusted terms. Jet fuel consumption dropped by nearly 6 percent. Gasoline consumption rose just 0.5 percent. 
 Gasoline prices now average $2.93 a gallon nationwide, according to AAA, the automobile club, up from $2.15 a gallon at this time last year. 
 Kenneth S. Rogoff, former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and an economics professor at Harvard, said financial markets were underestimating the impact a slowdown might have on energy and commodity demand. For example, he estimated that the recent rise in oil prices, from $75 a barrel to close to $100 a barrel, had cost the American economy about $100 billion.
 ''The market has been very demand-driven, and OPEC has been very successfully surfing this demand wave,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''But if the United States has a really severe recession, that is going to crush oil prices. And there is nothing OPEC can do about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chakib Khelil, the president of OPEC, said he did not see the need to increase the oil supply.
 Austrian police officers at OPEC's headquarters in Vienna, where the oil cartel's ministers are to meet on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE PLUNKETT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (79%); ALGERIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



22 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 826 words

PERSON: Robert M. Ball 

HEADLINE: Robert M. Ball Is Dead at 93; Led Social Security

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Robert M. Ball, the commissioner of Social Security in the Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon administrations, an architect of Medicare and an influential opponent of privatizing Social Security, died Wednesday at his home in Bowie, Md. He was 93.
 The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Jonathan, said.
 ''Bob Ball left an indelible mark on the Social Security program and the agency in that he played a critical role in the establishment of Medicare,'' the current commissioner, Michael J. Astrue, said Wednesday in a statement. ''His commitment to Social Security was unequaled.'' 
 Mr. Ball was commissioner from 1962 to 1973, but his advocacy for preserving the program went well beyond his retirement from public service.
 In 1981, he represented the speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Democrat of Massachusetts, on the National Commission on Social Security Reform. 
 Called the Greenspan Commission, for its chairman, Alan Greenspan, who later became chairman of the Federal Reserve, it was created by President Ronald Reagan at a time when Social Security faced financial problems. High inflation and high unemployment were significantly decreasing revenues.
 Mr. Reagan wanted a report by the end of 1982, but the commission was deadlocked along partisan lines. Behind the scenes, Mr. Ball negotiated with James A. Baker III, Mr. Reagan's chief of staff, and Richard G. Darman, a deputy Treasury secretary.
 Weeks before the deadline, they came up with a compromise, a complex balance of tax increases and benefit cuts that was acceptable to the president and to Mr. O'Neill. Those 1983 amendments remain the most recent substantial changes to the system. 
 In 1996, Mr. Ball was a member of a Social Security advisory council that was considering partial privatization of the system, a precursor to the broader plan that President Bush would propose eight years later. The council chairman, Edward M. Gramlich, a Federal Reserve board member, favored the plan. But Mr. Ball managed to place so many other issues before the council that privatization was kept off the table.
 Still, privatization became a centerpiece of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign in 2004. The president wanted to allow workers to divert part of their Social Security payroll taxes into private accounts. Opponents, including Mr. Ball, said the plan would leave the system underfinanced. 
 ''Bob Ball essentially set up a war room in his living room; a phone, a fax machine and his big Rolodex,'' Thomas N. Bethell, the editor of Mr. Ball's 2000 book, ''Insuring the Essentials: Bob Ball on Social Security'' (Century Foundation Press), said on Thursday. ''He wrote position papers, broadsides and papered Capitol Hill with them.''
 Mr. Ball said the system was not facing financial disaster, as the president contended, and could be strengthened by, among other measures, raising the level of wages that could be taxed for Social Security, which is currently capped at $102,000. With Democrats in the majority since the elections of 2006, Congress has not addressed privatization. 
 Robert D. Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said Mr. Ball's influence was potent. ''For years he has been one of the strongest defenders of the existing structure,'' Mr. Reischauer said Thursday. ''He provided the intellectual firepower to those who want to preserve it.''
 Robert Myers Ball was born in Manhattan on March 28, 1914, the son of Archey and Laura Crump Ball. His father was a Methodist minister. Mr. Ball graduated from Wesleyan University with a degree in English in 1935, and a year later earned a master's degree there in economics.
 Besides his son, Jonathan, of Cazenovia, N.Y., Mr. Ball is survived by his wife of 71 years, the former Doris McCord; a daughter, Jacqueline Ball Smith of Meredith, N.H.; three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
 Mr. Ball first worked as a Social Security field assistant in New Jersey in 1939. In 1947 and 1948, he was staff director of the Senate Finance Committee's advisory council on Social Security, playing a crucial role in shaping legislation that significantly expanded coverage and benefits. In 1949, he rejoined the Social Security Administration and began rising through the ranks. President John F. Kennedy appointed him commissioner in 1962. 
 As commissioner, he played significant roles in creating and winning enactment of Medicare, which provides health insurance to people 65 and over, and the Social Security disability program.
 Recently, Mr. Ball had called on all presidential candidates to vow not to cut Social Security benefits. Last October, in an op-ed article in The Washington Post, he wrote: ''Social Security is the nation's most effective antipoverty program. But it's much more than that. For every worker it provides a solid base on which to try to build an adequate level of retirement income. To weaken that foundation would be grossly irresponsible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert M. Ball in 1997. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%); HEART DISEASE (57%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



23 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats' Stimulus Plan Hits Roadblock

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Las Vegas.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Backed solidly by the Bush administration, Senate Republicans said on Thursday that they would block a $157 billion economic stimulus package championed by Senate Democrats, who said they would have no choice but to quickly adopt a cheaper, more streamlined plan approved this week by the House. 
 Democratic Senate leaders said they still hoped to secure changes to the House plan when they voted on it next week. They said they remained on track to get the plan, a portfolio of tax rebates and business tax breaks intended to jolt the economy, to President Bush for his signature by Feb. 15. 
 The Democrats also said that the efforts over the last two days to shape the stimulus package to reflect their economic priorities had allowed them to lay out an agenda that they would pursue in the months ahead and use to bolster the case for electing a Democrat as president and widening their majorities in Congress. 
 Top items on that agenda include increased benefits for the elderly and veterans; subsidies for low-income families struggling with home heating bills and other energy costs; mortgage counseling for distressed homeowners; extended unemployment benefits; increased food stamps; and tax credits for alternative energy sources.
 The inability to reach a compromise in the Senate was in marked contrast to the negotiations a week ago between the Bush administration and House Democrats, which produced a swift agreement amid a remarkable show of bipartisan cooperation.
 ''I can give you their own speech on unemployment compensation, on food stamps,'' the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said of his numerous conversations with the administration. ''They don't believe in them, O.K.? So there was no way to agree when they don't believe that food stamps are important, when they believe that if you extend unemployment benefits it only keeps people from looking for a job, which is a little hard to comprehend. So the answer is, we tried to work something out with them and we weren't able to do that.'' 
 Republicans pointed to their deal with Speaker Nancy Pelosi as evidence that Senate Democrats were the obstacle, and they accused the Democrats of playing politics.
 ''They've already conceded they are trying to make a point, not a law,'' said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. 
 The chief changes that Senate Democrats still hope to make to the House stimulus plan would make tax filers living only on Social Security or veterans benefits eligible for $300 payments and would expand the home-heating subsidies. 
 The House package, which was approved in a bipartisan vote on Tuesday, would provide tax rebates of up to $600 for individuals and up to $1,200 for couples filing jointly. It would make minimum payments of $300 to individuals with at least $3,000 in earned income, and for families, an additional payment of $300 per child. 
 The rebates would be phased out for individuals with adjusted gross incomes of more than $75,000 and couples with more than $150,000. The plan also provides several short-term tax breaks for businesses to encourage spending and investment. 
 To highlight their policy differences with the Republicans, the Senate Democrats said they would hold a series of votes on the rival stimulus bills, probably on Wednesday, after Tuesday's nominating contests, making it easier for the three presidential candidates in the Senate to return to Washington. 
 Clearing the way to those votes, Mr. Reid said late Thursday that he had reached an agreement with Mr. McConnell on amendments related to the proposed permanent extension of the administration's terrorism surveillance program. Republican leaders had viewed that agreement as a condition for moving the stimulus bill to the floor.
 President Bush, in Las Vegas, signed a 15-day extension that Congress had approved to allow time to reach a permanent agreement. Mr. Bush called the ability to monitor communications in and out of the United States an important tool in fighting terrorism.
 ''If these terrorists and extremists are making phone calls into our country, we need to know why they're calling, what they're thinking and what they're planning,'' he said, speaking before a responsive crowd at the Nevada Policy Research Institute, a conservative advocacy group. 
 Mr. Bush; Ms. Pelosi; Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader; and Mr. McConnell have all urged the Senate to adopt the less expensive House stimulus plan, and to do so fast. 
 But Senate Democrats, including Mr. Reid, insisted on pressing ahead with their own package, which was approved by the Finance Committee on Wednesday.
 The Senate stimulus plan would cost more than $190 billion over two years, about $30 billion more than the House package, and Democrats said they intended to add more to the cost.
 While that bill now seems certain to fail, several Democrats, including Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the chairman of the Finance Committee, insisted that it was superior to the House version in several ways. 
 Most notably, the Senate bill would provide payments of $500 each to some 20 million low-income Americans living only on Social Security benefits, and to about 250,000 veterans dependent on government benefits. None of them would receive checks under the House plan, which is aimed mainly at wage earners.
 Both stimulus plans are meant to encourage spending through a combination of income-tax rebates, tax incentives for businesses and one-time payments for tax filers who report at least $3,000 in earnings but do not pay enough income tax to qualify for rebates.
 While the path seems clear for Mr. McConnell to secure adoption of the House bill, Democrats said it would not come without some Republicans potentially paying a steep political price, by voting against amendments that would be popular in their home states.
 For instance, the Democrats' strategy calls for a separate vote on an amendment to increase government assistance for rising home-heating costs and other energy expenses, a program for low-income families that is hugely popular in the Northeast. 
 Republican senators up for re-election this year, like Senator John E. Sununu of New Hampshire, would be forced to choose between casting a yes vote that would break with the Republican leadership or a no vote that would be unpopular with their constituents.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Senators Charles E. Schumer, Harry Reid, Richard J. Durbin and Patty Murray on Thursday at a Washington briefing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); VETERANS (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); AGING (67%); MILITARY BENEFITS (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); HARRY REID (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



24 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-10
 Kurds' Power Wanes As Arab Anger Rises
 The disproportionate political influence of the Kurds, an ethnic minority group in Iraq, appears to be diminishing the leverage they have gained since the fall of Saddam Hussein. Tensions are building between them and Iraqi Arabs, raising the specter of yet another fissure alongside the sectarian divide between Sunnis and Shiites. A1 
 Malaria Deaths Decline 
 Widespread distribution of mosquito nets and a new medicine, artemisinin, a Chinese drug made from wormwood, has sharply reduced malaria deaths in several African countries, World Health Organization researchers reported. A4 
 2nd Kenyan Official Killed
 Another Kenyan opposition lawmaker was shot dead by a policeman and riots immediately exploded in opposition strongholds. Government officials said the killing was a ''crime of passion.'' Opposition leaders called it an assassination.A6 
 Weather Shows China Strains
 The fragility of China's transportation networks was exposed after blizzards disrupted coal deliveries and acute electricity shortages cut a swath across central and southern parts of the country. A86 Killed by Taliban Bomber
 The deputy governor of Helmand Province in Afghanistan and five other people were killed by a suicide bomber during afternoon prayers in a mosque in the provincial capital, Afghan officials said. The Taliban claimed responsibility.A10 
 Missile Kills Qaeda Leader
 An American missile strike in Pakistan's northwestern tribal areas has killed a senior commander in Al Qaeda involved in planning attacks on United States and NATO troops in Afghanistan, American officials said. A10 
 NATIONALA16-23 
 Conservatives Give McCain Another Look
 Senator John McCain has long aroused opposition from the leaders of the right. But since his victory in the Florida primary, some are beginning to look at Mr. McCain's record in a new light. A1 
 A Democratic Face-Off
 Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama faced off in their first one-on-one debate of the presidential race, delivering their final arguments on who is better prepared for the White House before the multistate contests on Tuesday and highlighting their differences on issues like health care and immigration.A1
 As he was winning contests in Iowa and South Carolina, Barack Obama raised $32 million in January for his presidential bid, tapping a network of 170,000 new contributors to rake in nearly double the highest one-month total for any candidate in this election cycle. A1 
 Online Schooling Stirs Debate
 Half a million children take classes online, with a significant group receiving all their schooling from virtual public schools. The rapid growth of these schools has provoked debates over whether online learning is appropriate for young children. A1 
 Times Reporter Subpoenaed
 A federal grand jury has issued a subpoena to a reporter of The New York Times, apparently to try to force him to reveal his confidential sources for a 2006 book on the Central Intelligence Agency, one of the reporter's lawyers said. A17 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Drugs Increase Suicide Risk
 Drugs used to treat epilepsy, bipolar illness and mood problems double the risks of suicidal thoughts and behavior, say federal drug regulators. A22 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA20-21
 Real Estate Industry Floods Campaign Coffers
 The New York real estate industry, racing to beat strict new limits on campaign contributions, has been flooding city candidates with donations at a rate three and four times that in previous election cycles . A21
 Hopefuls Vie for Women
 The fight between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama for the votes of women is clearly felt in New York, where many women are bringing an intense, almost visceral connection to the election, interviews over the past week show. A20
 BUSINESS DAYC1-9
 A Rally After a Downturn
 The markets had the ingredients for a bearish day on Wall Street, but investors, took it all in stride. After an initial drop, the markets began to climb back, with the Dow Jones industrial average swinging nearly 500 points off its morning lows. C1 
 Optimism From Google
 Google said it had seen no impact from a slowing economy on its business as it reported a 17 percent jump in profit and a 51 percent increase in sales in the fourth quarter. C1 
 Price of a Domain Name
 For the first time, people outside the traditionally insular world of domainers, people who bid for domain names, are starting to assert that names of Web sites can be valuable, cash-generating assets just like stocks, bonds or property. C1 
 OPEC Standing Pat
 Ignoring calls from the United States and other consuming countries to pump more oil, the OPEC cartel is expected to keep its output unchanged when ministers meet Friday. C3
 Today in BusinessC2 
 OBITUARIESC10
 Robert M. Ball
 The commissioner of Social Security in the Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon administrations, an architect of Medicare and an influential opponent of privatizing Social Security, he was 93.C10
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: Pakistani P.R.; the verdict: it's broken; a good plan for traffic relief; are you up yet?
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TALIBAN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); POWER FAILURES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MALARIA (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); RIOTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); AL-QAEDA (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); CHILDREN (63%); GRAND JURY (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%); COAL INDUSTRY (53%); IMMIGRATION (50%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); KENYA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



25 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GROUND LEVEL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Bellwether State Fervently Seeks Choice Who Can Win in the Fall

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
They are used to picking the president around here, and more than ever, it seems, they want to extend their winning streak to the primaries. 
 For a century, voters in Missouri have proven to be a nearly perfect gauge of the nation's thinking on presidential candidates, swaying from Democrats to Republicans and back again, but always (besides a certain election in 1956) voting in general elections for the candidate who ultimately wins the nation.
 But far more than pride over some old record can be heard in the fervor with which people here from both parties spoke this past week about the primary this Tuesday. Again and again, they told of their desire to vote for someone who is not only able to manage the country's economic slump, its immigration policy and its war, but who is also capable of something far more immediate and pragmatic: winning the White House come November.
 ''I am looking for the Democrat who will actually pull that off,'' Dan Shelton, 55, a federal employee, said as he ate lunch in downtown St. Louis. ''I am interested in someone who is electable -- now it is a matter of figuring out who that really is.'' 
 In Democratic Party strongholds like this city, voters, grumpy after eight years with President Bush, spoke often of their passion about picking a nominee who stands the best chance in the general election.
 Even Senator Claire McCaskill, who has traveled her home state in recent days pushing for Senator Barack Obama, has raised the politically thorny question of electability, to the fury of some Democratic colleagues. Ms. McCaskill has said she worries that Missouri, a state with a strong conservative base, a slew of independent-minded voters and a Midwestern distaste for rancor, might be unwilling to back Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the fall. 
 ''I don't think she deserves this kind of negative enthusiasm, but it's there,'' Ms. McCaskill said. ''Perception is reality in politics.''
 In the suburbs and the long, rolling reaches beyond, Republican voters seemed somewhat less engaged in their own contest, but also spoke of the need to find just the person to beat the Democrats. 
 In rural towns to the southwest, places that two years ago unsuccessfully fought to defeat a ballot initiative protecting stem cell research, some said they were naturally drawn to Mike Huckabee for his faith, his opposition to abortion and his roots in nearby Arkansas. 
 But they were still considering Senator John McCain or Mitt Romney -- neither of whom, many said, were true, constant conservatives -- because they feared that Mr. Huckabee might not be able to win over independent voters or raise enough money to compete nationally.
 ''Many I've talked to are getting caught up in this 'he's not electable' mindset, so I don't know how this is going to come out in the end,'' the Rev. Scott Weldon, pastor of Faith Southern Baptist in Marshfield, said of Mr. Huckabee, whose bumper sticker is affixed to Mr. Weldon's truck and who gets a regular mention in his blog.
 Missouri will award 88 Democratic delegates, 72 of which will be split proportionally by the outcome Tuesday, and 58 Republican delegates, with all going to the winner. But the state barely compares with the biggest prizes on Tuesday, when more than 20 states will hold primaries or caucuses. 
 Still, candidates and their surrogates have begun a surprisingly frenetic fight here in recent days, with each of the Democrats and Bill and Chelsea Clinton flying in, and with Mr. Huckabee arriving in Jefferson City on Tuesday before the polls even closed in Florida.
 Five other Midwestern states with races Tuesday have drawn less attention, leaving some in the nation's middle feeling what Lawrence Jacobs, a political scientist in Minnesota, describes as an eerie sense of isolation in all the Super Tuesday hoopla, ''like people waiting for the marching band that never comes.''
 For most of those states -- Minnesota, North Dakota, Kansas and Oklahoma -- the relative quiet is explained by some campaigns' calculation of delegate counts and airplane flight time. The remaining one, Illinois, is flush with delegates, but polls have shown Mr. Obama, who represents the state, with a significant lead on the Democratic side.
 The battle for Missouri is more pronounced, in part because of its bellwether status. A victory here, political experts say, carries symbolism when it comes to answering questions about electability from the rest of the country. If you can win here, the thinking goes, you can win anywhere. And if you can't, well, you can't.
 The phenomenon may be best explained by the ways Missouri's makeup mimics that of the nation -- Northern and Southern, urban and rural, rich and poor. (Voters here went astray that one year, 1956, by picking Adlai Stevenson, from neighboring Illinois, over Dwight D. Eisenhower.)
 St. Charles County is a booming suburban area dominated by Republicans. One resident, Marcia Larsen, told of a sign inside a friend's house that reads simply: If You're a Democrat, Don't Come In. Many voters here said that they had not made up their minds, that they were waiting for more information, inspiration, something.
 A poll of Missouri Republicans last week for The St. Louis Post-Dispatch and a television station showed a tight race: Mr. McCain with 31 percent; Mr. Huckabee, 25 percent; and Mr. Romney, 21 percent. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus five percentage points. 
 ''The problem is there is a not a knock-your-socks-off candidate out there that really stands for what the Republicans and, more importantly, what the conservatives say,'' said Lyn J. Schipper, 40, the leader of a Republican club in the county. ''I think that what you're seeing is a transformation from the Ronald Reagan-esque candidate who everyone gathered around to such a splintering.''
 On Main Street in the city of St. Charles, with its brick streets, quaint shops and an annual ice-carving festival that was held last weekend, Republicans seemed most excited when asked about Mrs. Clinton. Some laughed greedily at the prospect of her nomination, saying it would increase the Republican nominee's chances.
 ''She goes in with more negatives than anyone in the history of the presidential system -- since the Constitution was ratified,'' said Jon Bennett, who is active in the county Republican Party.
 But here in St. Louis, a city that has shrunk sharply since its peak of nearly 860,000 residents in 1950, some Democrats dismissed such notions. The Post-Dispatch poll, this time of Democratic voters, showed Mrs. Clinton ahead with 44 percent, Mr. Obama with 31 percent and John Edwards, who has since suspended his campaign, with 18 percent. Representative Emanuel Cleaver II, who has endorsed Mrs. Clinton, was quick to point out that Missouri twice voted for Mr. Clinton and suggested that Republicans were ''beating up on Senator Clinton'' in part because they fear she will woo away Republican women.
 Some voters here questioned whether -- right or wrong -- Mr. Obama is electable because he is black.
 ''I don't know about that,'' said Alex Gilbert, a black man from St. Louis. Mr. Gilbert, who is 50 and works in corrections, said he was leaning toward Mrs. Clinton. ''People want to criticize her, but politics is politics and she's not afraid of ruffling some feathers,'' he said. 
 In Edgar Springs, a rural town known for its census designation in 2000 as the approximate mean center point of the nation's population, Les VanNote, 51, a construction worker, said he had heard questions from his work mates about whether the nation ''is ready'' for either Democrat. ''That's what everyone's asking, but myself -- I say, we shall see.''
 The campaigns, especially those of the Democrats, are vying hard for women here.
 A radio advertisement for Mr. Obama has begun running with Ms. McCaskill, her mother, Betty Anne, and former Senator Jean Carnahan, whose family is prominent in state politics.
 People here were most surprised by Ms. Carnahan's choice. Her late husband, Mel, a former governor here, had supported Mr. Clinton ''when he was lower than a snake's belly in the polls,'' Ms. Carnahan recalled Mr. Clinton as often saying. Mr. Clinton eulogized Mr. Carnahan at his memorial service. 
 ''It's not about friendship, this election,'' Ms. Carnahan, 74, said in an interview. ''It's about picking a president who can restore moral leadership in the world.''
 As a black woman, Pamela Tipton, who is 45 and works part time at St. Louis Union Station, said she felt ''caught in a cross'' between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama. But Ms. Tipton said she was likely to vote for Mrs. Clinton next week because of warm memories of her own and more secure financial status, with three part-time jobs in hairstyling and security, during Mr. Clinton's administration. 
 ''I have no health care now,'' she said. ''I have to vote for my own situation in this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Claire McCaskill has said she worries that Missouri voters might be unwilling to back Mrs. Clinton in the fall. Alex Gilbert is leaning toward Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. ''She's not afraid of ruffling some feathers,'' he said. Les VanNote of Edgar Springs, Mo., said that while some people were unsure whether the nation was ready for either of the top two Democratic candidates, ''I say, we shall see.'' Dan Shelton wants a Democrat capable of handling the issues of the day, but also says, ''I am interested in someone who is electable -- now it is a matter of figuring out who that really is.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BALLOTS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); IMMIGRATION (54%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%)

PERSON: CLAIRE MCCASKILL (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



26 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Principals Angrily Try To Cut Budget

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN and JENNIFER MEDINA; Ray Rivera contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Principals across New York City turned on their computers Thursday morning to discover that because of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's new budget proposal, their budgets had been slashed overnight by sums ranging from $9,000 to $447,587. And they reacted with unvarnished fury, while frantically scouring for places to cut spending.
 One principal, Steven M. Satin of Norman Thomas High School in Manhattan, sent a protest by e-mail to the deputy schools chancellor in charge of finances, calling the cuts ''an outrage and a disgrace and a slap in the face to everyone given the task of providing the best education we can for our students.'' He forwarded his message to colleagues, and they in turn shot back replies ranging from outraged to scornful to sardonic.
 ''Might they also consider reducing what they pay in no-bid contracts for testing, ARIS, and any number of consultants living large on the backs of our students,'' a Brooklyn principal wrote. ''How much more do NYC public school students and their families have to give up?'' ARIS is the acronym for an $80 million computer system that is used to compile and analyze student test scores and other data. 
 The e-mail messages were provided to The New York Times by a principal who wanted to show the depths of anger among principals but who did not want to be identified for fear of retribution by the Education Department or colleagues. In another sign of discontent, the principals' and teachers' unions, joined by elected officials, took to the steps of City Hall on Thursday to denounce the cuts. And in interviews, principals said they were carefully weighing what was expendable. 
 Asked what he would cut, Barry M. Fein, the principal of the Seth Low Intermediate School in Brooklyn, responded, ''My throat.'' 
 Because of the worsening economy, Mayor Bloomberg proposed citywide budget cuts last week that include, for the Education Department, $180 million in the current fiscal year and $324 million next year. On Wednesday evening, Kathleen Grimm, the deputy chancellor for finance and administration, sent an e-mail message to principals saying that schools would lose 1.75 percent of their budgets, effective immediately. On Thursday morning, principals learned the exact amount of the cuts, posted on their schools' computerized budget systems.
 ''My team has looked closely at each school's budget and has, I think, figured out how we can cut in a way that affects schools as little as possible,'' Ms. Grimm wrote.
 Principals said they were particularly upset because the cuts come in the middle of the year, when they have already hired teachers, planned their schools' schedules, and promised their students and parents certain perks, like after-school programs. The reduction in money also comes as the Bloomberg administration is holding principals increasingly accountable for their students' academic performance and reviewing them more rigorously, while giving them more freedom from supervision.
 ''The mayor and the chancellor love to call my members the C.E.O.'s of their schools,'' Ernest A. Logan, president of the Council of School Supervisors and Administrators, said on Thursday at City Hall, where he was joined by other elected and union officials. ''I think that what we could have used is some consultation with principals at schools, with the school community, to say what's the best way to absorb these cuts.''
 Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, called the cuts ''draconian'' and blamed them on Mr. Bloomberg's control of the schools. ''This is where we miss having an independent chancellor, not somebody who is appointed by the mayor,'' she said. ''We need people who are the management of the school system to say you can't reflexively cut schools.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, speaking on Thursday at Google's offices in Chelsea, said the cuts would have ''no impact whatsoever,'' adding, ''I know of no organization where you couldn't' squeeze out 1.7 percent, or even a lot more.''
 ''One of the great disciplines of managing anything is to walk in and question everything you're doing and say, 'Let's see if you can do it with a smaller budget,' '' the mayor said. ''That focuses your attention on which things work and which things don't.''
 But principals disagreed.
 Reached by telephone, Mr. Satin, of Norman Thomas High School, seemed taken aback to learn that The Times had received a copy of his message. But he acknowledged sending it, and added that he had since learned his school would lose $208,000.
 ''That's six teachers' salaries for the rest of the term,'' he said.
 Mr. Satin, a 36-year veteran of the school system, said he embraced many of the schools chancellor's policies, including the increased power that principals have in exchange for greater accountability.
 ''I love the word 'accountability,' I love 'be creative,' '' Mr. Satin said. ''We've been challenged to do it and we're doing the best job we can. But it's like pulling the rug out from under you overnight. It's like saying, 'Keep doing everything you're doing, but do it with $208,000 less.' ''
 Mr. Fein, of the Seth Low school (and the self-declared throat cutter), said that after receiving Ms. Grimm's e-mail message, he stayed up much of the night pondering potential cuts.
 ''I'm exhausted, emotionally wiped,'' he said. ''This is midyear, and a lot of these programs are in place and money has already been spent.''
 The principals in their e-mail chain of complaints wondered whether their evaluations would take into account constraints because of budget cuts, and also spoke disparagingly of the city's contracts with I.B.M., which developed the $80 million computer system, and as one principal put it, ''a whole host of other private, for-profit corporations that have entered into our world.''
 Acrimony over the budget cuts all but overshadowed another development in the city's effort to give principals greater rewards in exchange for greater accountability. The department announced on Thursday that Karen Watts, principal of Wadleigh Secondary School for the Performing and Visual Arts in Morningside Heights, would be the city's first ''executive principal.'' As part of the new program, Ms. Watts will be paid an extra $25,000 a year for three years to take over a troubled school, in this case the Acorn High School for Social Justice in Bushwick, Brooklyn. After the Acorn school earned an F on its school report card, its principal resigned under pressure. Ms. Watts's school had earned an A.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York City principals, teachers, union representatives and other officials gathered on the steps of City Hall on Thursday to protest the new school budget cuts outlined earlier in the day. Councilman Robert Jackson was one of the speakers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET CUTS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); FAMILY (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



27 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Women Weigh Use Of Clout In Primary

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Kate Hammer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the garden-level kitchen of a Harlem brownstone last Sunday, five women sat around a long wooden table, overshadowed by a large leafy plant in the window, sipping hazelnut coffee and excitedly finishing one another's sentences as they talked about the presidential candidates as if they were on intimate terms, calling them Hillary and Barack.
 All of them had grown up in middle-class black enclaves of America -- in Chicago, Virginia, Alabama, Brooklyn, Harlem -- several attending private schools. All of them said they were moved by Senator Barack Obama's candidacy and would vote for him enthusiastically in the New York Democratic primary on Tuesday. 
 On the other side of the city, in Laurelton, Queens, a retired bank operations specialist, married and with grandchildren, said she was strongly attracted to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's resume, and saw her as a seasoned voice of experience with a proven record in national and international affairs. 
 And in a comfortably cluttered, bohemian living room in an Upper West Side apartment, another woman, a doctor, confessed that she was slightly panicked at the thought, just days before the primary, of not having made up her mind between two candidates she viewed as equally competent and compelling path-breakers.
 Women are a crucial bloc in the primary in New York, where they constitute 55 percent of registered Democrats statewide and 60 percent in the city. A statewide WNBC/Marist poll released last week showed Mrs. Clinton ahead among all women, though black women strongly favored Mr. Obama. But black women were also more likely to be undecided than most other groups.
 In New York, many women are bringing an intense, almost visceral connection to the election, interviews with dozens of women over the past week show. For some it is a personal, even painful decision. They talk about children and grandchildren, war and education. Many women worry that embracing Mr. Obama would be a repudiation of the first woman to have come as far as she has in seeking the presidency. But some black women wonder: If they reject the first serious black candidate in favor of Mrs. Clinton, how will they look themselves in the mirror the next day?
 Lisa Faith Phillips, 51, who is white and supports Mrs. Clinton, expressed her quandary this way: ''I would love Barack if he wasn't running against a woman who I think would do a good job.'' 
 To the women in Harlem, though, there was little uncertainty. Mrs. Clinton was not a feisty female role model, they said, but someone who had stayed too long in her husband's shadow and whose time had passed.
 ''She's not a feminist, No. 1, not a woman who made it on her own, not an Ann Richards or a Pelosi,'' said Carolyn A. Brown, 63, a professor of African history at Rutgers University.
 ''Not Barbara Jordan,'' added her friend, Evelyn Neal, 69, who was active in Harlem arts and politics in the '60s and '70s. 
 ''I don't like the way her husband is running her campaign,'' Ms. Neal said. ''You realize he's still going to be called President Clinton, and she'll be President Clinton?''
 Mr. Obama, they said, transcended race and gender. ''Barack Obama is becoming not only a black man, he is a symbol across race, across class,'' Ms. Brown said. ''You don't have to be only black or white.''
 But at the Upper West Side gathering, four white, liberal, baby-boomer women defended Mrs. Clinton's feminist credentials as they sipped red wine and talked politics with a gusto more often reserved for topics like sex, husbands, children and real estate.
 ''Having worked in corporate America for 20 years, I find, as much as women have had some movement up, the glass ceiling is still very strong,'' said Ms. Phillips, the performance artist. ''Even in publishing where most of the workaday jobs are done by women, most of the executives are men,'' she said. ''It's frustrating. You do feel a sense of a boys' club that keeps women out.''
 Ms. Phillips, currently starring in the one-woman show ''Seven and a Half Habits of Highly Effective Mistresses,'' was vice president and general manager of Random House Direct for nine years. Unmarried, with two cats and degrees from Wellesley and the London School of Economics, she unabashedly supports Mrs. Clinton, saying a woman in the White House would break barriers in society.
 She read Senator Obama's books and was impressed, she said, adding, ''I just feel like he hasn't been out in a bigger arena, proving himself.'' 
 Yet for all their support for Mrs. Clinton's credentials as a feminist, two of the four women were not sure they would vote for her. 
 Paula Ettelbrick, 52, a human rights lawyer and lesbian mother of a son and a daughter, started a sentence. ''I never would have thought, given a chance to vote for a woman ---- ''
 Barrie Raik, the doctor, finished it: '' ---- that I might not.'' 
 Dr. Raik, 60, said she liked Senator Obama's transformational appeal, and the message that Americans electing a black president might send ''to the rest of the world.'' Yet she wondered whether Mrs. Clinton might be more effective. ''Who is more likely to accomplish the goals?'' she asked.
 She felt she needed more facts to resolve her indecision. ''Maybe between now and then I can just get online,'' Dr. Raik said, plaintively.
 For all the women at the Upper West Side gathering, the primary season had been an emotional roller coaster. Ms. Ettelbrick said she had choked up on the subway as she read about the endorsements of Mr. Obama by Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Caroline Kennedy. The Kennedy mystique, and her 10-year-old son's entreaties, moved her from undecided to Mr. Obama on Tuesday morning, she said.
 Their hostess, Leslie Creutzfeldt, 51, objected. ''Why does it have to be a fantasy of regaining Camelot?'' she asked. ''Why can't it be ---- ''
 '' ---- Getting the job done,'' Ms. Phillips finished the thought.
 Feminism has become a dirty word, Ms. Creutzfeldt said. ''The minute you say, 'I'm for her' you are somewhat similar to her,'' she said.
 After listening, Ms. Ettelbrick said she had started to wonder if she was allowing herself to be overly influenced by her son, who had argued that Mr. Obama was the hope of the next generation. ''Maybe I need to talk to my daughter,'' she said, half-joking.
 Ms. Creutzfeldt, a public relations executive, said Mr. Obama's turning away from Mrs. Clinton before the State of the Union address, which she interpreted as a snub, had engaged her sexism radar. 
 ''It was as if he said, 'Who's that girl?' '' Ms. Creutzfeldt said. ''His macho side has never been explored, but why should he be different from anybody else?''
 As a woman, Mrs. Clinton was in uncharted territory, Ms. Phillips said. ''She can't win -- if she's sensitive, she's too feminine.''
 But the Harlem women doubted that Mrs. Clinton's sensitive side -- the emotional expression in New Hampshire -- was genuine. 
 ''Her natural personality is more like Rudy Giuliani's,'' said Hope Harley-Todman, 57, a retired director of external affairs for Verizon. In any case, argued Jean Carey Bond, 70, a writer and editor, racism was more of a hurdle than sexism. 
 ''White womanhood usually trumps black man,'' Ms. Bond said.
 Some women who were old enough to remember the Clinton presidency said they would be happy to have a reprise with Mrs. Clinton. And some women pointed to Mrs. Clinton's Senate tenure and policy positions as major reasons to vote for her. 
 ''She's going to pull us out of the war and address medical care in this country,'' said Marie Tzesir, 65, of Laurelton. Ms. Tzesir, who is black, said that she liked Mr. Obama, but that it was not ''his turn.''
 Some other women, who were too young to vote during the Clinton era and are now yearning for something new, preferred Mr. Obama. Gwen Stanley, 24, a white waitress living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said she considered Mr. Obama more principled. 
 ''I just think he is the most liberal,'' Ms. Stanley said. ''He's taken a clear stance on the war and torture, not switching back and forth like other candidates.'' 
 Among the women in Harlem, Mr. Obama scored higher on the liberal scale as well. ''Hillary Clinton was a Goldwater girl,'' Ms. Bond said.
 Ms. Neal predicted that the primary election would be close. She described going to the Harlem senior center where she volunteers and hearing the old people say, '' 'Where this 'Bama boy come from?' '' and, '' 'You know, I heard he was a Muslim.' ''
 ''The Clinton name carries a lot of weight,'' said Ms. Harley-Todman. ''You know how older people have pictures of John Kennedy, Bobby and Martin in their homes.''
 ''And Jesus,'' Kay W. Logan, 62, a retired Y.W.C.A. management trainer, piped up.
 ''And then somewhere off in the corner a little picture of Clinton,'' Ms. Harley-Todman finished.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UPPER WEST SIDE: Barrie Raik, a physician, was among a group of four white, liberal, baby-boomer women discussing the primary. While they defended Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's credentials, not all of them had decided whom to support on Tuesday. HARLEM: Talking politics on Sunday were Evelyn Neal, her back to the camera, Carolyn A. Brown, center, and Hope Harley-Todman. All of them said they were moved by Senator Barack Obama and would vote for him in the New York Democratic primary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WOMEN (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (70%); HISTORY (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



28 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Democrats: And Then There Were Two

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Edwards Is Out; Giuliani Quits and Backs McCain'' (front page, Jan. 31):
 John Edwards's voice has been a critical one for the Democratic Party during the campaign and one that should not be forgotten. In crying out against poverty and homelessness, he voiced ideas that have been profound concerns of Democrats for decades.
 His commitment echoes the powerful speech of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo during his keynote address to the Democratic convention of 1984, in which, citing the chasm between the rich and the poor, he spoke of the nation being more a ''Tale of Two Cities'' than a ''Shining City on a Hill.'' 
 Democrats are indebted to John Edwards for reminding and refocusing the party and the country on ending poverty. Right up until the end, he repeated his urgent appeal to make the two Americas one and urged all Americans to work toward that end. 
 Let's hope that Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton keep their promise to Mr. Edwards to make these issues an important part of their campaigns. 
 Katina Zachmanoglou New York, Jan. 31, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Dynastic Question,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, Jan. 31):
 Mr. Kristof did not make a significant distinction between the Bush family and the Clinton family. The Bush family has all the features of economic and political dynasty, from the role of George H. W. Bush's father to his term as president to his son's terms as president. Their financial and political power enabled this succession. 
 The Clintons had no such benefits! Whatever one may think of them, one cannot deny that both Clintons proved the American dream, that with brainpower, drive and hard work, a kid from Arkansas could rise to be president and a girl from the Midwest could become a respected senator from New York. There is no assumed dynasty here; their achievements are self-made!
 To deny someone the presidency who has been described (by Mr. Kristof -- and many others) as having ''an utter mastery of domestic and foreign policy ... and who knows military and security issues ... better than anyone else'' because another member of her family served seems foolhardy and a waste of brainpower and experience.
 Linda Green Potomac, Md., Jan. 31, 2008
 To the Editor:
 To answer Nicholas D. Kristof's question: If Hillary Rodham Clinton were running on her own record, rather than on her husband's, if she were running her own campaign rather than relying on her husband and his advisers, and if she were campaigning for a new direction, rather than for a retreat to the past, there wouldn't be a ''dynastic question.''
 It is our loss, and her fault, that there is one. 
 Dave Silverstone New York, Jan. 31, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The charge of dynasty should not disqualify anyone from office, and being a member of a dynasty should not automatically be a detriment.
 One advantage to a dynasty is the ability to learn firsthand from mistakes made during the dynasty's administration. George W. Bush never seemed to learn from his mistakes nor from those of George H. W. Bush, while Hillary Rodham Clinton has admitted to, learned from and benefited from both her mistakes and President Clinton's during his administration. 
 The changes Mrs. Clinton promises have foundations formed from these learning experiences instead of being based merely on faith or the hope of success. 
 No one should be disqualified from political office for being a member of a dynasty; Americans should not be denied the benefits of Mrs. Clinton's learning experiences gained during President Clinton's administration. 
 Christopher Bishop Milford, Conn., Jan. 31, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Kennedy Mystique,'' by David Brooks (column, Jan. 29): 
 If you were a college student in the early 1960's, as I was, you know exactly what Mr. Brooks is talking about regarding the inspirational leadership that Senator Edward M. Kennedy and so many others have come to recognize in Barack Obama. I read this essay three times before I could read any other, because it transported me back 45 years. 
 It has been that long since I felt hopeful and energized about our politicians and our nation. I hope that enough people recognize the potential greatness of this young leader so that he is the one giving the next State of the Union address.
 Hugh R. Winig Lafayette, Calif., Jan. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Kennedy Mystique'': As a loyal Democrat and New Yorker, I had not yet decided who would get my vote in the Feb. 5 primary. Both Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama have lots of good qualities and some not so good. Both are clearly doing their best to use the media to their advantage.
 The Kennedy endorsement of Senator Obama is having the opposite of its intended effect on me. While I am very inspired by Mr. Obama's rhetoric, there is no basis for a comparison to John F. Kennedy. By making that case, the Kennedys betray our memory of the murdered president and flatter themselves too much. 
 By accepting their endorsement with such fanfare, Mr. Obama proves that he is as political as anyone else. If he thinks that people won't notice that this ''future-oriented'' candidate has just hooked his own wagon to a different decade in the past than the Clintons, he's mistaken.
 Judy Levine Kingston, N.Y., Jan. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''Desperate Husband,'' by William Kristol (column, Jan. 28), describing Bill Clinton's antics on the campaign trail, leaves me with an alarming fear that all of Hillary Rodham Clinton's efforts may be dashed into failure. I think that everyone's hackles were raised when some of Mr. Clinton's undisciplined wild statements were quoted in the news. Didn't they once judge him as one of the shrewdest politicians in the business? Well, it looks as if he outsmarted himself.
 I personally thought he should have taken a back seat. But now that the damage is done, no one can tell how badly it will affect Mrs. Clinton's campaign. 
 After all the grueling work and effort and her commendable qualifications, it would be lamentable if she were brought down by her undisciplined husband. 
 Roslyn Fallick Jackson Heights, Queens Jan. 28, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHIL MARDEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); GEORGE H W BUSH (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



29 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: One on One, Democrats Set Aim at G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama met for debate here Thursday, sitting side by side and sharing a night of smiles, friendly eye-catching and gentle banter. Cordial as the encounter was, the candidates did not mask their own divisions, even as they previewed the attacks one of them will ultimately make against a Republican rival.
 Still, it was almost as if the battle was to see which of them could outnice the other.
 At the end of the nearly two-hour encounter, as the audience of Democrats and Hollywood celebrities rose to its feet at the Kodak Theater, Mr. Obama held Mrs. Clinton's chair as she rose. The two rivals, almost hugging, held each others' elbows and whispered in one another's ear, offering a striking image that captured the tenor of the debate. 
 ''When we started off, we had eight candidates on this stage. We are now down to two,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I think one of us two will end up being the next president of the United States.''
 Gone were the sharp and sometimes personal attacks that have characterized a year's worth of debates, particularly a combative session last week in South Carolina, which both sides conceded had tarnished their images.
 Still, the candidates were at pains to lay out their differences on issues like national health care, the Iraq war and experience in their last appearance together before voters in more than 20 states weigh in Tuesday on the presidential nominating fight.
 As she has through much of the campaign, Mrs. Clinton found herself defending her 2002 Senate vote to authorize war against Iraq -- a position that has been enduringly unpopular with Democrats. The vote has forced her to discuss her shifting stands on Iraq instead of the antiwar principle she has sought to embrace in the campaign.
 ''I think now we have to look at how we go forward,'' she said. ''There will be a great debate between us and the Republicans, because the Republicans are still committed to George Bush's policy.''
 Mr. Obama, given his opposition to the war from 2002 onward, argued that he would be in a strongest position to challenge the Republican nominee over Iraq.
 ''I think it is much easier for us to have the argument when we have a nominee who says, 'I always thought this was a bad idea, this was a bad strategy,' '' Mr. Obama said to applause. ''They screwed up the execution of it in all sorts of ways.''
 ''The question,'' he said, '' is, can we make an argument that this was a conceptually flawed mission from the start, and that we need better judgment when we decide to send our young men and women into war?''
 Still, unlike when they last met for debate, when they attacked each other over personal conduct as well as issues, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama aimed their sharpest words at Republicans.
 Mrs. Clinton criticized President Bush over his stewardship of the economy, while Mr. Obama chided Senator John McCain of Arizona, one of the two Republicans leading in their race, for supporting Bush-backed tax cuts for wealthy Americans after initially opposing them.
 ''Somewhere along the line the Straight Talk Express lost some wheels,'' Mr. Obama said, referring to one of Mr. McCain's political slogans.
 Both lavished praise on John Edwards, the former North Carolina senator who dropped out of the race this week and whose endorsement they are actively seeking.
 Mr. Obama said he and Mr. Edwards were determined to fight special interests and big business. Mrs. Clinton twice noted early on that her universal health care plan -- which, unlike Mr. Obama's, includes a requirement that all Americans have health care -- was very similar to that of Mr. Edwards.
 Mr. Obama countered that about ''95 percent'' of his plan and Mrs. Clinton's were the same, but that he believed his proposal went further to reducing costs.
 But their tone Thursday night was largely friendly. Each candidate laughed agreeably and nodded at the other's remarks, and they praised each other at different points and looked ahead to the battle with the other party.
 ''They are more of the same,'' Mrs. Clinton said of the Republican candidates. ''Neither of us, by looking at us, is more of the same -- we will change our country.''
 Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton sidestepped a question about whether either would select the other as a running mate. Wolf Blitzer of CNN, the moderator, called it a ''dream ticket'' in the eyes of many Democrats. In fact, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have built up resentments toward each other over the campaign and seem unlikely to want to pair up for the general election.
 ''We've got a lot more road to travel,'' Mr. Obama said, ''and so I think it's premature for either of us to start speculating about vice presidents.'' When pressed, he said, ''I'm sure that Hillary would be on anybody's short list.''
 Mrs. Clinton responded in kind. ''Well, I have to agree with everything Barack just said,'' she replied, to laughter from the audience.
 Later, Mrs. Clinton was forced to fend off a question about her ability to ''control'' former President Bill Clinton from interfering in her administration should she become president in 2009, given his assertiveness on the campaign trail. (Mrs. Clinton has acknowledged that her husband has become ''carried away'' at times recently.)
 ''The fact is that I'm running for president, and this is my campaign,'' she said to applause. She added: ''At the end of the day, it's a lonely job in the White House. And it is the president of the United States who has to make the decisions. And that is what I'm asking to be entrusted to do.''
 On one flash point -- immigration -- Mr. Obama cited his role in immigration reform legislation in Washington last year. He voiced his support for states giving driver's licenses to undocumented workers.
 ''People don't come here to drive, they come here to work,'' Mr. Obama said.
 It was an issue that stirred controversy in a debate last year, which Mr. Obama sought to raise by pointing out that his rival gave ''a number of different answers on this over the course of six weeks.''
 ''Now she does have a clear position, but it took awhile,'' Mr. Obama said Thursday. ''The only reason I bring that up is to underscore the fact that this is a difficult political issue.''
 It was the first dust-up of the evening between the candidates, occurring near the end of the first hour. Mrs. Clinton smiled and offered her reply.
 ''I just have to correct the record for one second,'' she said, explaining that she initially supported the concept of giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants so she could help Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York, who was being criticized over the issue. Turning to Mr. Obama directly, she said: ''You were asked the same question and could not answer it. So this is a difficult issue.''
 Asked by Mr. Blitzer whether she was ''missing in action'' during the immigration debate, Mrs. Clinton was quick to reject the suggestion.
 ''I cosponsored comprehensive immigration reform in 2004, before Barack came to the Senate,'' she said. 
 In a week where Senator Edward M. Kennedy endorsed the candidacy of Mr. Obama, as did Caroline Kennedy, Mrs. Clinton was asked why they had chosen her rival and whether she would represent the kind of change that would inspire a nation.
 ''I have the greatest respect for Senator Kennedy and the Kennedy family,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''I'm proud to have three of Bobby's kids supporting me -- Bobby, Kathleen and Kerry supporting me.''
 She added, ''I think having the first women president would be a huge change for America and the world.''
 The candidates could not question one another in the debate, but took questions from viewers. A 38-year-old woman in South Carolina, who sent her question in by e-mail, said she had never voted for someone not named Bush or Clinton. She wondered how Mrs. Clinton would represent change.
 ''You have to make the case for yourself,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''And I want to be judged on my own merits. I don't want to be advantaged -- or disadvantaged.''
 The debate also featured questions about the strengths of Senator McCain and Mitt Romney of Massachusetts -- the two leading Republican presidential candidates. Asked about Mr. Romney's experience as a chief executive officer, Mr. Obama drew laughs when he reminded the audience that Mr. Romney has significantly outspent his rivals, investing millions of his own money.
 ''Mitt Romney hasn't gotten a very good return on his investment during this presidential campaign,'' Mr. Obama said, adding that he would match his financial management skills with Mr. Romney's. (Hours before the debate, Mr. Obama's campaign announced that he had raised $32 million in January alone.)
 Not only was the debate much less contentious than Wednesday night's debate among the remaining Republican candidates, but it was also far more muted than recent Democratic debates -- an obvious calculation on the part of both candidates, who have been criticized for being overly harsh and personal. Democratic leaders feared that the negative tone would carry over to the general election, tamping down voters' enthusiasm.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Thursday night's Democratic debate between Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Barack Obama quoted incorrectly from an e-mail message sent by a 38-year-old woman in South Carolina. In asking Mrs. Clinton how she represented change, the woman noted that she had never had the opportunity to vote in a presidential election in which a Bush or Clinton was not on the ticket; she did not say that she had only voted for a Bush or Clinton.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton met in Los Angeles on Thursday in a debate notable for its cordiality. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Steven Spielberg, the film director and producer, above left, was in the crowd attending the Democratic debate Thursday night, as was the actor Leonardo DiCaprio, at right. The setting, the Kodak Theater, is better known as the site of the Academy Awards. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A19)
 The scene inside at Thursday night's Democratic debate. The scene outside was one of pleasant political chaos, and tickets were being scalped for $1,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (55%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



30 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Ad Growth Still Strong, Google Says

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Google said it has seen no effect from a slowing economy on its advertising business, as it reported a 17 percent jump in profit and a 51 percent growth in revenue in the fourth quarter. 
 The result represents a slowdown in Google's growth rate and fell shy of expectations. The company said it remained bullish about its business, regardless of the outlook for the overall economy.
 ''We have not seen any impact as of now,'' said Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, in an interview Thursday afternoon after the financial report was announced. 
 Mr. Schmidt said he had yet to see weakness in any advertising category. 
 It is not clear whether the comments from Google, the largest seller of online ads, will calm growing fears that a slowdown in the economy could take a bite out of online advertising. 
 While some analysts view Google as a bellwether for the online advertising sector, others say that its business relies disproportionately of small text ads that appear next to search results. Those ads tend to produce immediate results for advertisers because they drive traffic to their Web sites. 
 Analysts believe they are more impervious to a slowdown than banner ads, which are aimed at building brand awareness and are common on most sites. 
 ''I don't think Google's ad model is insulated from a recession, but it is probably less vulnerable to cutbacks than other online ad models and definitely than traditional advertising,'' said Scott Kessler, an equity analyst with Standard & Poor's. 
 This week, Yahoo said it was too early to determine whether a slowdown in sectors like retail, housing, finance and travel would have an impact on its online advertising business.
 During a conference call with investors, Google executives were upbeat about both the company's results and its prospects. 
 ''We are very, very pleased with our year and also with the quarter that just ended,'' Mr. Schmidt said. He said that the movement of ad dollars from traditional media to online media is a trend that is not going to reverse. ''We are optimistic about 2008,'' he added.
 Google executives went so far as to suggest that they might benefit in some ways from an economic downturn. Jonathan Rosenberg, senior vice president for product management, said worries about the economy could lead consumers to spend more time online searching for good deals. ''If people are doing more comparison shopping and looking for bargains, that could be a positive,'' he said. 
 The company's shares closed at $564.30 during regular trading, up $16.03 for the day, or nearly 3 percent. But its stock fell 6.5 percent after hours, to $527.40.
 The Internet search giant reported net income for the quarter of $1.21 billion, or $3.79 a share, compared with $1.03 billion, or $3.29 a share a year ago. Excluding items like stock based compensation, income was $4.43 a share, slightly below the $4.45 expected by Wall Street analysts.
 Google said revenue in the last three months of the year rose to $4.83 billion, from $3.21 billion a year ago. Excluding commissions paid to advertising partners, a measure closely watched by Wall Street analysts, Google's revenue jumped to $3.39 billion, from $2.23 billion a year earlier. Analysts had expected revenues, without partner commissions, to be $3.45 billion.
 However, Derek Brown, an analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald, said that the results, ''don't indicate significant changes in the competitive landscape, the company's growth trajectory or profit levels.''
 Google also had some difficulties finding effective ways to advertise on social networks like MySpace. Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder and president for technology, said some of its experiments did not pan out. But he said social networks represent ''a big opportunity, because there is so much inventory.''
 One issue weighing on investors is whether Google will win an auction for wireless spectrum, which is being conducted by the Federal Communications Commission. Google had promised to bid at least $4.6 billion -- the reserve price set by the agency -- for a portion of the spectrum known as the C Block. 
 The F.C.C. said it had received a $4.7 billion bid for the C Block on Thursday morning. The F.C.C. will not identify who places top bids until the auction for the C Block and for other portions of the spectrum are completed, a process that could take weeks. Many analysts believe that Google has no intention of winning.
 But the uncertainty has been a drag on Google's shares. Some investors fret that if the company won the spectrum, it might have to spend even more to build out a wireless network. Google ended 2007 with more than $14 billion in cash and marketable securities. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Employees at the Google offices in New York. Google executives, based in Mountain View, Calif., extolled last year's results.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BRANDING (73%); AWARENESS MARKETING (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); BRAND EQUITY (66%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



31 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: China Tries to Reassure U.S. About Its Investing Plans

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The head of China's $200 billion government investment fund, seeking to reassure Americans nervous about the possibility of foreign takeovers, said Thursday that China would invest mostly in portfolios rather than individual companies -- except when a ''big fat rabbit'' like the investment banker Morgan Stanley came along.
 ''We are like farmers -- we want to farm our land well,'' said Lou Jiwei, chairman of the China Investment Corporation, a so-called sovereign wealth fund established last year to invest some of China's foreign exchange reserves. 
 Like funds from Asia and the Middle East, the corporation has gone on a shopping spree. Sovereign funds have bought stakes in firms like Merrill Lynch and Citigroup.
 Referring to the $5 billion stake in Morgan Stanley that the fund purchased in December, Mr. Lou added: ''Of course when there is good market opportunity, we can also make some direct investment, such as the Morgan Stanley deal.''
 Mr. Lou said Morgan Stanley had approached the Chinese fund rather than the other way around and that ''after analysis we realized that this was a good opportunity.'' He added: ''If there is a big fat rabbit we will also shoot it. Some people may say we were shot by Morgan Stanley. But who knows?''
 China made headlines last May when it announced it would purchase a $3 billion stake in the Blackstone Group, a private equity fund. But Mr. Lou said only a third of the fund's $200 billion in assets would be used to buy foreign assets. The other two-thirds are to be used to shore up three Chinese commercial banks, he said.
 Mr. Lou, a former finance ministry official in Beijing, was on a visit to the United States to tell American officials that China had no intention of gaining controlling interest in any companies, and that it would be a ''good corporate citizen'' and not invest in companies that damage the environment, waste energy or produce tobacco.
 He said he understood that Americans ''have concerns about the size of our capital and also people have concerns about our motives'' but that his fund was established to invest part of China's estimated $1.4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, most of which is in dollar-denominated Treasury securities, to meet Chinese monetary policy needs.
 Echoing what he said was a pledge by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, Mr. Lou said that the Chinese government would not interfere in the operations of the Chinese fund or dictate its investment decisions, and that the fund would have its own corporate governance structure.
 He also said the fund would disclose more of its investment decisions and more about its portfolio composition, consistent with good financial practices. 
 ''We will be a very good local citizen,'' he added, saying that if any country receiving investments had misgivings, China ''may choose to leave'' or look elsewhere.
 Concerns have been voiced in Congress that China and Persian Gulf countries might invest in strategic assets or to further political agendas. That was the worry two years ago when a Chinese company tried to buy Unocal.
 The Unocal deal fell apart around the same time that a Dubai company backed away from buying a company that manages American port facilities.
 Mr. Lou said it was obvious to him that there could be no political motives in China's investing practices. ''I need to make money,'' he said. ''If I don't I cannot survive. So how can I have political motives?'' 
 While in Washington, Mr. Lou met with Treasury officials, but the Treasury declined to say with whom.
 Mr. Lou also met with officials at the International Monetary Fund, which is trying to draw up a code of ''best practices'' for use by the world's sovereign wealth funds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lou Jiwei of China Investment says he is seeking portfolios. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS SCHIFRES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); TOBACCO FARMING (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (90%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BX (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%)

PERSON: LOU JIWEI (90%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



32 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Higher Profits for P.&G. and Colgate

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Two makers of household and personal care products -- Procter & Gamble and Colgate-Palmolive -- both reported higher quarterly profits on Thursday, relying on sales in emerging markets as the United States economy slowed. 
 Colgate shares rose $3.19, to $76.69. Procter & Gamble shares were up less -- 33 cents, to $65.42 -- after the company said earnings for the current quarter would be below analysts' estimates. 
 Procter & Gamble also announced plans to make its Folgers coffee business a separate company with stock offered to shareholders.
 An analyst at Goldman Sachs, Amy L. Chasen, said in a research note that Colgate's results looked much better and could increase the focus on Procter & Gamble's weaker third-quarter outlook. 
 Like many consumer products companies, Procter & Gamble and Colgate are being hit by soaring prices for energy and raw materials. Both have cut overhead costs and increased prices to help offset the rising commodity costs. 
 Both companies sell toothpaste, soap and pet food, but Procter & Gamble's products also include things like coffee, paper towels and razors, making it more exposed to rising costs than Colgate, analysts said.
 ''P.& G. manufactures a much broader assortment of products, and their exposure is going to be greater,'' an analyst at Morningstar, Lauren DeSanto, said.
 Procter & Gamble posted a 14 percent increase in net income to $3.27 billion for its second quarter, which ended Dec. 31.
 Earnings were 98 cents a share, compared with the average analysts' estimate of 97 cents compiled by Reuters Estimates.
 Sales rose 9 percent to $21.6 billion, helped by the weaker dollar, which increased the dollar value of overseas sales. The company had strong sales growth in China, Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East and Africa, a spokesman said.
 Those increases came as American growth slowed, the company said during a conference call with analysts, though the company said it had not been losing customers to lower-priced private-label brands.
 Colgate, meanwhile, said fourth-quarter profit rose to $414.9 million, a 3.4 percent increase, with sales up 13.5 percent to $3.64 billion.
 Excluding revamping charges, earnings were 91 cents a share. Analysts on average had forecast 89 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 The company is in the latter stages of a four-year overhaul aimed at oral care, personal care and pet food and is using the savings to help increase spending on marketing.
 Colgate also set a new plan to repurchase 30 million shares over the next two years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRIVATE LABELS (78%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (78%); COFFEE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COFFEE & TEA (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (92%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (92%); PG (NYSE) (92%); CL (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (92%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008



33 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; The Listings; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2630 words

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'ALICE'S HOUSE' (No rating, 1:30, in Portuguese) Chico Teixeira's languid, libidinous film observes a messy Sao Paolo apartment where Alice (the wonderful Carla Ribas) copes with an ailing mother, three teenage sons and an unfaithful husband. Simultaneously delicate and earthy, ''Alice's House'' anchors its soap opera plotlines -- adultery, avarice and incipient blindness -- in the tired body and vaguely ruined features of its dreamy heroine. 
 (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'ATONEMENT' (R, 2:03) Gorgeous and inert, this adaptation of Ian McEwan's novel suggests that some books are best left alone. (A. O. Scott) 
 'BEAUFORT' (No rating, 2:05, in Hebrew) Joseph Cedar's tense drama takes place at a fortress in Lebanon captured by Israel in the 1980s. The last group of Israeli soldiers is preparing to withdraw, under attack from Hezbollah and with decided ambivalence. The movie's earnest sobriety helps it through passages of tedium and occasional bouts of combat-picture cliche. (Scott) 
 'BEFORE THE DEVIL KNOWS YOU'RE DEAD' (R, 1:56) Philip Seymour Hoffman and Ethan Hawke play two desperate brothers whose scheme to rob their parents' jewelry store goes terribly wrong. The movie, directed with feverish authority by Sidney Lumet from a solid script by Kelly Masterson, gets just about everything right. (Scott) 
 'THE BUCKET LIST' (PG-13, 1:38) In this preposterous feel-good comedy about two men with terminal cancer, Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman slip into their stock personas without adding a note we haven't seen before. (Stephen Holden)
 'CASSANDRA'S DREAM' (PG-13, 1:45) A well-matched Ewan McGregor and Colin Farrell play brothers in blood and deed in Woody Allen's London-based, dark-hearted, effective tragedy. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CHARLIE WILSON'S WAR' (PG-13, 1:36) Tom Hanks plays the hard-drinking, skirt-chasing Texas congressman who helped finance the Afghan resistance to Soviet occupation in the 1980s. Julia Roberts and Philip Seymour Hoffman are terrific as his co-conspirators in this remarkably jaunty excursion into cold war covert operations. (Scott) 
 'CLOVERFIELD' (PG-13, 1:24) OMG! It's, like, totally the end of the world!! (Dargis)
 'EASTERN PROMISES' (R, 1:40) The humanism of Steve Knight's script clashes in interesting ways with the ruthless formal rigor of the director, David Cronenberg, in this clammy, unsettling underworld tale. Viggo Mortensen is magnetic and enigmatic as a Russian mobster who shows some signs of conscience. (Scott)
 'ENCHANTED' (PG, 1:47) This unexpectedly delightful revisionist fairy tale from, of all places, Walt Disney Pictures, doesn't radically rewrite every bummer cliche about girls of all ages and their dreams. But for a satisfying stretch, it works real magic both by sending up stereotypes and through the twinkling, unwinking performance of its superb star, Amy Adams. (Dargis)
 'FIRST SUNDAY' (PG-13, 1:36) Ice Cube and Tracy Morgan rob a church and find redemption. Meanwhile Katt Williams, as the flamboyant choir director, steals the movie. (Scott)
 '4 MONTHS, 3 WEEKS AND 2 DAYS' (No rating, 1:53, in Romanian) In this ferocious, unsentimental film from the Romanian writer and director Cristian Mungiu the camera doesn't follow the action, it expresses consciousness itself. This consciousness -- alert to the world and insistently alive -- is embodied by a young university student who in the late 1980s helps her roommate with an illegal abortion in Ceausescu's Romania. It's a pitiless, violent story that in its telling becomes a haunting and haunted intellectual and aesthetic achievement. (Dargis) 
 'THE GREAT DEBATERS' (PG-13, 2:03) The wonder is that ''The Great Debaters'' transcends its own simplifying and manipulative ploys; it radiates nobility of spirit. (Holden) 
 'HONEYDRIPPER' (PG-13, 2:03) This movie is agreeable, well-intentioned and very, very slow. Sadly, it illustrates the difference between an archetype and a stereotype. When an archetype falls flat, it turns into a stereotype and becomes a cliche. (Holden) 
 'I AM LEGEND' (PG-13, 1:40) Will Smith, as the sole surviving human resident of Manhattan, paints the town in fine style in this post-apocalyptic zombie action thriller. It falls apart in the last act, but Mr. Smith and the special effects make it quite watchable up until then. (Scott)
 'I'M NOT THERE' (R, 2:15) Hurling a Molotov cocktail into the biopic factory, Todd Haynes uses six different actors and an astonishing range of looks and styles to meditate on the life, work and cultural impact of Bob Dylan. Inspired and inexhaustible. (Scott)
 'INTO THE WILD' (R, 2:20) In his adaptation of Jon Krakauer's best seller, Sean Penn explores the life and death of Christopher McCandless, a young wanderer who perished in the Alaskan wilderness in 1992. The story is sad, but there is something almost exuberant in Mr. Penn's embrace of it -- and in Emile Hirsch's brilliant performance as McCandless. Rarely has the radical, romantic American attachment to the wilderness been explored with such sympathy and passion. (Scott)
 'JUNO' (PG-13, 1:31) A sharply written and acted coming-of-age comedy, starring the remarkable Ellen Page as Juno MacGuff, a teenager who deals with her unanticipated pregnancy in unexpected ways. (Scott)
 'LOST IN BEIJING' (No rating, 1:52, in Mandarin) A melodrama of sex and class in the sleek, bustling Chinese capital, directed by Lu Yi. The story is schematic, but the performances, especially by Tony Leung Ka-Fai and Fan Bingbing, keep it grounded in emotional and social reality. ( Scott) 
 'MAD MONEY' (PG-13, 1:44) In this breezy, amoral heist comedy, ''Fun With Dick and Jane'' meets ''9 to 5'' on the way to recession. This uncomfortably timely movie may lack the political bite of ''Fun'' and the cozy star chemistry of ''9 to 5,'' but it twinkles to fitful life in the crooked grin of Diane Keaton as a lady with a lust for larceny. (Holden)
 'MEET THE SPARTANS' (PG-13, 1:32) In this redundant and tasteless spoof of the film ''300,'' King Leonidas (Sean Maguire) and 13 faithful boyfriends -- er, soldiers -- face off against the Persians and an avalanche of pop-culture detritus. Meanwhile the writers and directors, Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer (whose fingers have been in everything from the ''Scary Movie'' franchise to the more recent ''Epic Movie''), continue to prove that ridiculing other movies is much easier than making your own. (Catsoulis) 
 'MICHAEL CLAYTON' (R, 1:59) A slow-to-boil requiem for American decency from the writer and director Tony Gilroy in which George Clooney, the ultimate in luxury brands and playboy of the Western world, raises the sword in the name of truth and justice and good. Well, someone's got to do it. (Dargis)
 'NATIONAL TREASURE: BOOK OF SECRETS' (PG, 2:04) This hyperactive sequel sends its archaeologist hero, Ben Franklin Gates (Nicolas Cage, flexing his deadpan), on a quest to clear the name of an ancestor wrongly accused of collaborating to assassinate Lincoln. The characters' facility with factoids is amusing, but the visuals are blah. One bright spot is Helen Mirren as Ben's mother, who manages to be sly and sexy even when translating pre-Columbian glyphs. (Matt Zoller Seitz) 
 'NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN' (R, 2:02) Mean, violent and impeccable, Joel and Ethan Coen's adaptation of a pulpy, compact novel by Cormac McCarthy lives and breathes in the central performances of Tommy Lee Jones, Josh Brolin and Javier Bardem, who chase one another, $2 million and metaphysical truth through the Texas back country. (Scott)
 'ORTHODOX STANCE' (No rating, 1:22, in English, Russian, Hebrew and Spanish) Jason Hutt's intriguingly layered documentary follows the young boxer Dmitriy Salita, an immigrant from Ukraine, as he strives to integrate his career as a junior welterweight and his faith as an Orthodox Jew. Over a turbulent three-year period ''Orthodox Stance'' reveals a man who has found his identity -- and his fan base -- through both. (Catsoulis) 
 'PERSEPOLIS' (PG-13, 1:35, in French) Marjane Satrapi's adaptation of her graphic novel-memoir is a free-spirited coming-of-age story, beautifully drawn and voiced by a formidable trio of French movie stars. (Scott) 
 'THE PIRATES WHO DON'T DO ANYTHING: A VEGGIE TALES MOVIE' (G, 1:24) This movie for young children, the second feature film in the Veggie Tales franchise, is harmless but as devoid of zest as overcooked vegetables. Three of the characters are transported back in time and called upon to rescue a prince and princess from pirates. The film seems like a lazy attempt to cash in on ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' chic by using a plot outline borrowed from ''The Wizard of Oz.'' (Neil Genzlinger)
 'P.S. I LOVE YOU' (PG-13, 2:00) Hilary Swank stars in this old-fashioned weepy about a young woman who receives instruction on how to be a widow from her dead husband. Ms. Swank's ardent sincerity dovetails nicely with the director Richard LaGravenese's melodramatic excesses. (Dargis) 
 'RAMBO' (R, 1:33) After 20 years moping in the jungle, John Rambo is back, more muscle-bound and impassive than ever. This time he extracts some bloody payback from the brutal Burmese Army in one of the more brutal humanitarian interventions ever imagined. (Scott) 'THE SAVAGES' (R, 1:53) Tamara Jenkins's beautifully nuanced tragicomedy involves two floundering souls -- a middle-aged brother and sister played with force and feeling by Philip Seymour Hoffman and Laura Linney -- who are suddenly left to care for their infirm father (Philip Bosco). There isn't a single moment of emotional guff or sentimentality in ''The Savages,'' a film that periodically caused me to wince, but also left me with a sense of acute pleasure, even joy. (Dargis)
 'SMILEY FACE' (R, 1:25) This film by Gregg Araki, about a pot-addled would-be actress (Anna Faris of the ''Scary Movie'' franchise) stumbling through a long, weird day in Los Angeles, is a contradiction in terms: a ''stoner'' comedy with a purpose. Despite its laid-back script (by Dylan Haggerty), ''Smiley Face'' is as prankishly political as Mr. Araki's ''Doom Generation,'' evincing a deep unease with the media-saturated capitalist nation that Jane crawls inside her bong to escape. (Seitz) 
 'SOUTHLAND TALES' (R, 2:24) Richard Kelly's funny, audacious, messy and feverishly inspired future-shock look at America and its discontents opens with the very biggest of bangs: a nuclear attack on Texas. World War III ensues, but happily Dwayne Johnson, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Justin Timberlake, Seann William Scott and a crew of professional wisenheimers are here to help. 
 (Dargis)
 'STILL LIFE' (No rating, 1:48, in Mandarin) A modern master of postmodern discontent, Jia Zhang-ke is among the most strikingly gifted filmmakers working today. In his documentary-inflected fictions he weighs the human cost of China's shift from state-controlled communism to state-sanctioned capitalism, a price paid in the blood and sweat of people who have, paradoxically, inspired him to create works of sublime, soulful art -- works of art like ''Still Life.'' (Dargis)
 'SUMMER PALACE' (No rating, 2:20, in Mandarin and German) Lou Ye's sweeping, spirited portrait of Chinese college students before and after Tiananmen Square has the scope of an epic and the rhythms of a pop song. Lei Hao gives a fierce, uninhibited performance as the film's passionate, impulsive heroine, a girl from the provinces who arrives at Beijing University in 1988. (Scott)
 'SWEENEY TODD' (R, 1:50) Tim Burton's adaptation of Stephen Sondheim's musical, with Johnny Depp in the title role, is bleak, bloody and brilliant. The songs will stay in your head even as the story and the images trouble your sleep. (Scott) 
 'TAXI TO THE DARK SIDE' (R, 1:46) This documentary by Alex Gibney (''Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room'') traces a path from Bagram prison in Afghanistan to Abu Graib and Guantanamo, and serves up a powerful indictment of some of the American military's tactics in the war on terror. (Scott)
 'TEETH' (R, 1:27) Clever and crude, this teenage horror movie spoof follows the misadventures of a mutant teen angel unknowingly afflicted with the mythical condition known as vagina dentata (a toothed vagina). (Holden)
 'THERE WILL BE BLOOD' (R, 2:38) Paul Thomas Anderson's epic American nightmare tells a story of greed and envy of biblical proportions set against the backdrop of the Southern California oil boom of the late-19th- and early-20th centuries. There is no God but money in this oil-rich desert, and his messenger is Daniel Plainview, a petroleum speculator played by a monstrous and shattering Daniel Day-Lewis. (Dargis)
 '27 DRESSES' (PG-13, 1:47) Katherine Heigl, trading the unexpected maternity of ''Knocked Up'' for the expectation of matrimony, stars in this bland and forgettable romantic comedy. Ms. Heigl, Malin Akerman (as her sister and romantic rival) and Judy Greer (as the inevitably flaky/slutty friend) are all adept comic performers, but the filmmakers give them nothing fresh or interesting to work with. (Scott)
 'UNTRACEABLE' (R, 1:40) Morally duplicitous torture porn: how else to describe this bleak, rain-washed horror thriller, whose predatory villain streams live video of his murders on his own popular Web site, killwithme.com. (Holden) 
 'THE WATER HORSE: LEGEND OF THE DEEP' (PG, 1:51) In this enthralling adaptation of a novel by Dick King-Smith, a boy in Scotland stumbles across a mysterious egg that hatches an adorable, mischievous creature (a remarkably lifelike piece of digital animation) that grows into the Loch Ness Monster. (Laura Kern)
 Film Series
 FILMS BY OLIVIER ASSAYAS (Friday through Thursday) A critic turned filmmaker in the finest French New Wave tradition, Mr. Assayas has built up a substantial body of work in the last 20 years, embracing both the naturalistic (''Late August, Early September,'' ''Les Desinees Sentimentales'') and formalistic (''Irma Vep,'' ''Demonlover'') extremes of French filmmaking. This weeklong survey of his work includes those four titles, as well as his 1998 collaboration with the director Andre Techine, ''Alice and Martin'' (Sunday and Monday), and his superb documentary ''HHH: A Portrait of Hou Hsiao-hsien'' (Saturday and Monday), a 1997 study of that great Taiwanese filmmaker. Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. 
 (Dave Kehr)
 OSCAR'S DOCS, 1941-1945: BRAVERY AND BIAS (Saturday through Thursday) The Academy Awards for documentaries (short and feature-length) were introduced in 1942, at a time when most documentary production was devoted to propaganda for the war effort. This intriguing series examines how nonfiction films were used simultaneously to inform and incite during World War II, beginning with the 1941 Canadian short ''Churchill's Island,'' which won the first documentary Oscar (Saturday and Sunday), and continuing with ''Prelude to War'' from Frank Capra's ''Why We Fight'' series; the gripping ''Moscow Strikes Back'' (1942), photographed on the Russian front (Saturday and Sunday); and a program ofshorts (Monday) that includes John Ford's two wartime documentaries, ''December 7th'' and ''The Battle of Midway.'' The series ends next Friday with Don Siegel's startling 1945 ''Hitler Lives?,'' a training film for American occupation forces that none too subtly suggests that the polka-dancing Germans remain fierce Nazi ideologues behind their welcoming smiles. Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM GENRES (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); HEZBOLLAH (67%); ARMED FORCES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (59%); JULIA ROBERTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (66%) ISRAEL (90%); LEBANON (70%); UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009



34 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: In Land of Futbol, Hoping for Football Fans

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

DATELINE: NOGALES, Mexico 

 BODY:
About 180 miles from the site of Super Bowl XLII, through a desert lined with tumbleweeds and cacti, a fence rises with barbed wire coiled across the top.
 The fence separates two countries. On the American side, children throw footballs in the street and play on high school football teams. The people there wait with great anticipation for the game played Sunday in the spaceship of a stadium up the road in Glendale, Ariz.
 On the Mexican side, futbol fans outnumber football fans, but the people anticipate the big game with a capitalist's glee. Here in shops lined with glass plates and ornate pottery and intricate paintings, they hope the economic effect will trickle down to their struggling economy.
 Earlier this week, Rafael Vizzerra leaned on the wall outside his shop, arms crossed, gazing into the distance across the border. 
 ''The politics, the immigration problem, oh, it's bad,'' he said. ''The mafia. The drug cartels. Here in Mexico, and every frontier, like here in Nogales, you can really feel the pressure from the economy.''
 Vizzerra, 58, talked wistfully of the ''good old days,'' when he opened his shop 33 years ago and the economy held strong. He pulled out his wallet to reveal proof that he served two years in the United States Army. He could always go across the border to find work, but he met his wife here, runs his business here. This place, he said, is part of him.
 He worries about new passport laws, worries about the surrounding businesses that closed in the past six years. He worries about the disappearing tourists from whom he makes his living. He wonders if the Super Bowl will help.
 ''Every little thing counts,'' Vizzerra said. ''Every little thing helps. If one person comes here from there. There's a lot of poverty here. We make our living off the tourists. When there are no tourists, there's no money.''
 A few blocks away on the downtown grid, Arturo Arreola stands in front of his shop wearing a matching Pittsburgh Steelers hat and sweatshirt. A fan since 1978, Arreola detailed his love for every Steelers player from Terry Bradshaw to Jerome Bettis.
 Football hooked Arreola as a young man. He loved the contact, loved the violence.
 ''I didn't know much about football,'' Arreola said. ''But I like the rough sports. I don't like those sissy games.''
 Just then two gentleman walked by. One wore a Yankees hat, the other a cap with the Boston Red Sox logo. With the Patriots and Giants set to square off in the Super Bowl, they appeared the perfect odd coupling -- except neither one liked football.
 Sports interest here runs the spectrum, from baseball to bullfighting to football and futbol. The Regis Bar, a historical saloon that has been downtown since 1928, satisfies all of Nogales's sports fans.
 At first glance, it looks like an American sports bar. Televisions broadcast ESPN, and patrons drink bottles of beer. A neon Bud Light sign hangs in the corner.
 On a typical Sunday, the owner Jesus Pesqueira said people came from Tucson, and all over Mexico wearing jerseys and waving flags and rooting mostly for what he called ''Western teams,'' like, um, the San Francisco 49ers and the Green Bay Packers.
 Pesqueira, 41, sometimes rents his back room, the one with pictures of old Nogales on the wall, hanging next to a television and two toro heads -- each about 4 feet long and about 300 pounds, like mini defensive tackles. Pesqueira said his family has owned the bar for generations, and while he expected a full crowd on Super Bowl Sunday, he also said he felt the recent economic pinch.
 ''If the American people have economic problems, then the world has the same problems,'' Pesqueira said. ''Or more.''
 Shop owners, more than any other business, feel the impact the most here. Like Carlos Duran, 31, whose family owns Centro Comercial, a store tucked in a downtown alley. Duran roots for the Miami Dolphins and worships Dan Marino, so this Super Bowl, with the Patriots aiming for perfection, remains difficult to stomach.
 Six stores in the same alley closed in the past six years, Duran said. He shook his head, then turned back to talking football. ''Whatever happened with the spying?'' he asked.
 ''New England is going to set history anyway,'' Duran said, cringing at the thought of the Patriots joining his undefeated Dolphins team from 1972. ''New York, they've got Eli Manning, but he ain't no Peyton.''
 Alejandro Castro and Duran work together. Castro, the family member who owns the store, does not follow football. He follows the local economy, which he says slowed after the Sept. 11 attacks and will slow more drastically now that United States citizens are required to have a passport in order to return home.
 He points to the shop to the right of his family's. ''Closed,'' he said. He points to another shop, to the left. ''Closed, too.''
 ''I enjoy listening to people talk about football and their favorite players,'' Castro, 42, added. ''But I'd rather have a lot of Americans buying in my shop.''
 He paused, before adding, ''For good prices.'' He paused again. ''And big discounts.''
 Much of the sports gambling takes place in a one-room building locals call the casino. Inside, there are folding tables and televisions spread wall to wall with horse races and basketball games unfolding. Men smoke cigarettes and drink beer. The security guard asks that no one take pictures, lest someone come back next week with guns.
 Across the town square, near the border entrance to the United States, a true Yankee stood in front of one of the Nogales shops. Kevin Mineconzo, a 29-year-old from Schenectady, N.Y., wore a Yankees fleece jacket and a Yankees cap turned backward.
 His family had flown west for a vacation starting in Tucson and ending in Las Vegas, where they plan to watch the Super Bowl and place a small bet on Mineconzo's beloved Giants. Crazy, Mineconzo said, that the Super Bowl is only a few hundred miles from this town.
 ''I just got here,'' he said. ''And everybody's selling something.''
 About 180 miles from the Super Bowl, on the Mexican side of the fence rising to the sky, the spirit of capitalism lives. This is the spirit of the Super Bowl.
 ''Tell all the fans to come here,'' Castro said. ''I promise they won't be sorry.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The store owner Alejandro Castro says he would rather see Americans buy his merchandise than talk football with him.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Nogales, Mexico, is about 180 miles from Glendale, Ariz. Map details area of Nogales, Mexico. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASEBALL (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); IMMIGRATION (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); BULLFIGHTING (67%); CARTELS (53%); ARMIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



35 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Divisive Serbian Vote Offers Stark Choice of East and West

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: BELGRADE 

 BODY:
As Serbia prepared to choose a president, 25,000 supporters of the nationalist challenger, Tomislav Nikolic, packed a stadium on Thursday where the warm-up performances included a haunting song celebrating Radovan Karadzic, the fugitive Bosnian Serb leader charged with genocide, enthusiastic tributes to Moscow and rousing speeches by former lieutenants of the late Slobodan Milosevic. 
 The rally for Mr. Nikolic, 55, a charismatic former cemetery worker known as the Undertaker, underlined the stark choice Serbs face in a runoff on Sunday that could draw Serbia closer to the European Union or drag it back into the nationalism and isolation of the past. 
 Mr. Nikolic's Radical Party edged out the Democratic Party of the pro-Western incumbent, Boris Tadic, in the first round of elections last week. The latest opinion polls show Mr. Tadic, 50, a telegenic but understated psychologist, who advocates closer ties with the European Union and Washington, ahead by three percentage points. 
 ''Serbs face a choice between accepting or rejecting the economic and political renewal of Serbia that began after Milosevic was finally thrown out of power in 2000,'' said Marko Blagojevic, an analyst with the Center for Democracy and Free Elections, an election monitoring and polling group based in Belgrade. 
 The vote has also become a test between determination by Russia to extend its sphere of influence to the Adriatic Sea and a campaign by the European Union and the United States to stabilize the Balkans. 
 A critical element of that contest is Kosovo, which is expected to declare its independence from Serbia this month. Serbia, backed by Moscow, is vehemently opposed to independence and considers the territory, dominated by ethnic Albanians, its medieval heartland. Kosovo has been in limbo since 1999, when it came under United Nations control after NATO intervened to halt Mr. Milosevic's repression of Albanians there. 
 The European Union and the United States support independence for Kosovo, and union officials have promised to offset Serbia's loss by rewarding it with generous financial aid, visa-free travel and the possibility of membership. 
 Both candidates say Kosovo should remain part of Serbia. But Mr. Tadic has used the issue to press for closer ties with Europe and Washington, while Mr. Nikolic has argued that a Serbia shorn of Kosovo should turn to Russia instead. 
 ''I want the E.U.'s help and I want investment for Serbia,'' Mr. Nikolic said at the rally Thursday night. ''But I have only one demand: do not touch our Kosovo.'' 
 His pronouncement was made after a large screen showed a heroic report of his visit to Moscow this week, where, accompanied by the brother of Mr. Milosevic, he met with Russia's likely next president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, and praised the deal last week in which the Russian state energy giant Gazprom gained control of Serbia's national oil company. 
 Political observers here say Mr. Nikolic's message -- low on policy proposals and high on nationalism -- is resonating with Serbs, who are deeply disenchanted with the country's progress since Mr. Tadic's Democratic Party helped overthrow Mr. Milosevic eight years ago. 
 Unemployment hovers around 21 percent, while the annual per capita gross domestic product of $7,400 ranks Serbia among Europe's poorest countries. 
 The discontent was apparent this week at a crowded cafe in a poor neighborhood of New Belgrade, dominated by concrete apartment blocks and Nikolic posters. A Radical Party student leader, Raso Vucinic, 20, said Serbia would never relinquish Kosovo in return for European Union membership. 
 ''We all want to live better,'' he said. ''But we will not give in to blackmail.'' 
 Yet supporters of Mr. Tadic, who has made European Union membership a centerpiece of his campaign, say such sentiments reflect a collective amnesia about the 1990s, when Serbia suffered from international economic embargoes and the Radical Party backed Mr. Milosevic's wars. 
 Since Mr. Tadic became president in 2004, his supporters say, he has improved relations with the West and helped Serbia rebuild the outward-looking image that the Radical Party helped destroy. 
 Rade Maroevic, 38, a former professional basketball player, noted with pride that three Serbian tennis players -- Novak Djokovic, Jelena Jankovic and Ana Ivanovic -- had worked their way into the top 10 in the world. 
 ''For once, people know us for something other than being war criminals,'' he said. ''We don't want to go back to the old days.'' 
 Mr. Tadic made a similar point at his own rally Thursday night, saying, ''Never again can Serbia afford to be a place of conflict, war, isolation and discrimination.'' Businesspeople warned that a Nikolic victory would bring economic costs, including diminished foreign investment. ''If Nikolic wins, this will destabilize the economy,'' said Zoran Mandic, a leading entrepreneur.
 Analysts predicted that on Sunday economics would triumph over emotions and Mr. Tadic would win, if only by the slimmest of margins. Mr. Blagojevic, the political analyst, said the swing vote would come from Serbs who were unwilling to trade long-term economic welfare for hanging on to Kosovo. 
 But he cautioned that choosing between Kosovo and Europe was excruciating: ''Serbs are being asked to choose between cutting off their right or left legs.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); GENOCIDE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ELECTION MONITORING (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (60%); GAZP (RTS) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (54%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



36 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Housing Illness Spreading To Rest of Construction

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
E-mail: norris@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A PLUNGE in construction spending threatens to drive the American economy into recession.
 Strong construction spending was all that kept the American economy out of recession in late 2007.
 Both statements are accurate. 
 Falling residential construction was a major factor in slowing the economy to a tiny 0.6 percent gain, at an annual rate, in the fourth quarter of last year, according to estimates released by the Commerce Department this week. With home prices falling, and new-home sales running at a rate less than half what it was two years ago, that sector's share of total economic activity has fallen to a 12-year low.
 But rapid increases in other construction spending made up for a large part of the decline. Nonresidential construction spending rose at an annual rate of almost 16 percent in the quarter, and local government investment spending -- principally on things like roads and schools -- climbed at an annual rate of almost 10 percent.
 Between them, they added a full percentage point to the overall growth rate, preventing the economy from showing a decline.
 The contrasting pictures have moved to extremes. While the share of the economy going to residential construction has fallen, the share going to nonresidential construction is at its highest level since 1988, and the share going to state and local government investment is at the highest level since 1976, when Gerald R. Ford was president.
 In the next year, it is unlikely that residential investment will continue falling at the rate it fell in 2007. But it is likely that the other areas of construction will gradually come under pressure. Already on Friday, the Labor Department reported that employment in nonresidential construction had begun to decline.
 The credit squeeze is making it harder for developers of some projects to get financing, among them a proposed development in Brooklyn that would house what is now the New Jersey Nets team in the National Basketball Association.
 As can be seen from the charts, spending by state and local governments has been highly volatile, growing rapidly one year and shrinking the next. That could be about to happen again. Falling real estate values threaten to reduce property tax revenues for many local governments, a fact that could reduce the number of new infrastructure and building contracts put up for bid.
 Pressure to hold down spending may be intense, in part because the Commerce Department figures released this week make clear that consumers are under pressure. They spent a lot more money on food and gasoline in late 2007, because of rising prices, and then spent less money on clothing and shoes. It was the first time since 1991 that there was such a decline in the final three months of a year.
 ''There was less spent at Kmart and Wal-Mart because there was more spent at Ralphs and Mobil,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG.
 One risk to economic growth now is that there will also be less money spent on construction projects by companies and local governments.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''As Home Building Fell, Other Construction Rose'' The graphs show year by year growth in spending in residential construction, nonresidential construction, and state and local government investment. Other graphs show the share of gross domestic product, by quarter. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BASKETBALL (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



37 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Does Its Share to Help Fellow New Yorkers

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Several analysts from Goldman Sachs and Citigroup delivered an envelope full of cash, checks and change this week to the offices of The New York Times Company Foundation.
 The money represented a fund-raising effort by analysts from these banks. Their contributions and online donations, including those from seven other investment banks made through nycharities.com, totaled $189,260 on Monday. 
 This was almost 12 percent lower than last year's total, but the portion from Goldman Sachs was 36 percent higher. 
 Jack Rosenthal, the president of the New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the Neediest Cases Fund, welcomed the analysts -- Kathleen Barrett, Francisco Mejia and Timothy Galligan of Goldman Sachs and Jessica Fashano of Citigroup -- and thanked them for their continued support of the Neediest Cases campaign.
 How did they do it?
 ''Our success was our structure,'' said Mr. Galligan of Goldman Sachs, which raised far more than the other banks put together: a little more than three-fourths of the total. 
 He explained that one to three first-year analysts were appointed as fund-raisers in each of 15 divisions. These representatives announced the start of the fund-raising drive in September by e-mail, then followed up by approaching everyone in each department in person. In many instances, the people they sought contributions from had themselves taken part in the Neediest Cases Fund drive in previous years.
 Mr. Mejia said, ''It has become a tradition within our firm to participate in an effort to help New York's sick, poor and disabled, particularly during the holiday season.''
 Goldman made several extra efforts to raise money, like a bake sale with a holiday theme. The company matched eligible gifts, and a donation was made on behalf of the firm.
 Ms. Barrett said, ''It became a competition between departments to raise the most money.'' Mr. Mejia added that people throughout the firm were happy to contribute to a fund that focuses on charities that benefit the community.
 This year's contributions ranged from $20 to $7,500, according to fund representatives. 
 ''We are touched by the passion of the young Wall Street analysts who conduct this annual campaign,'' Mr. Rosenthal said. ''They work plenty long hours to begin with, yet make time to press their colleagues for contributions.
 ''The $189,000 raised this year brings their total contributions over the last 16 years to very nearly $3 million. That has helped many hundreds of families in distress.'' 
 The analysts who came to the foundation's offices said they looked forward to being involved in next year's campaign and passing on the tradition as well as devising new ways to expand the program.
 This contribution is particularly welcome since other contributions started to taper off after Jan. 1. With a week left, the fund is 3.2 percent down.
 ''Contributions often reflect the economy, and we're seeing that this year, given the subprime mortgage turmoil and reduced year-end bonuses,'' Mr. Rosenthal said. ''But the same turmoil afflicts ever more needy families.'' 
 There is still time to give to the Neediest Cases Fund through the mail or at nycharities.com. This year about 30 percent of all donations were given online, representing a 14 percent increase from last year.
 Here are a few comments posted online from this year's supporters:
 ''So many of us have so much ... and so many of us have so little. If those of us who have not necessarily millions, but enough so that we are never hungry, cold, without medicine or any of the basic necessities can share some of our riches, we would all be so much better off.''
 Gloria T. Avitabile
 Connecticut
 ''The stories of how people are helped are very inspiring. And with all the worthy causes out there it is nice to find one that is close to home helping people in the community in so many tangible ways.''Gregory Vierheilig
 New Jersey
 ''Your stories of how the fund helps people and families even in the smallest of ways proves how effective and important this program is.''Peter Wood
 New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHARITIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



38 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: For Just a Few Dollars, A Big TV and Years of Debt

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
First thing Friday morning, before anyone showed up to rent a television for the Super Bowl, Deborah Williams walked in the door of the Rent-A-Center store under the Broadway el in Bushwick, Brooklyn. She was delivering $109 in cash, her February payment for a 27-inch television that she is buying over time. 
 If she does not miss any payments, she will own the television by the summer, for a total of about $900. Such televisions can be bought retail for well under $400, but that would require more money than Deborah Williams can put her hands on at one time. 
 This is a big week in the television rental business. Fliers were slipped under the doors at the Astoria Houses in Queens that urged people to hurry to the Rent-A-Center on Steinway Street so they could have a big new TV for the football game. Among the offers was a 40-inch Bravia, with payments of $47.51 a week. In 117 weeks, the customer would own the set outright, for $5,558. 
 If this were set up as a loan, the interest rate would be 71 percent and illegal under the usury laws. But this deal is called ''rent to own.'' In all other particulars, it is much like a subprime mortgage for pull-out sofas and television sets.
 Rent-A-Center is a chain of more than 3,200 stores that sell and rent appliances and furniture for no money down, to people with no credit. Here in New York, it has 38 stores. The list of addresses is as precise as a census map in pinpointing the poor and nearly poor of the city. They are not competing with Best Buy.
 Alice Navarro had Friday morning off from her job as a secretary to a lawyer, and came into the Bushwick store with her daughter, Yasmin Vargas. ''I'm thinking, I could give a hundred dollars down and watch the game on the big screen,'' Ms. Navarro said. ''But by the time you're done paying, it's $4,000 and change -- almost $5,000.''
 Then they looked at a laptop. ''They wanted $4,000 for a Sony laptop,'' Ms. Navarro said. ''I could pay $1,500 honest cash and get it.''
 ''We walked right back out,'' Ms. Vargas said.
 ''Basically, you have poor people living around here,'' Ms. Navarro said. ''These days, nobody's middle class, nobody's high class -- not the way rents are.''
 A few minutes after they left, Ms. Williams emerged, payment made, receipt issued. She stopped under the el to talk. She is not working, and described herself as living on a fixed income.
 ''I got my TV from them,'' she said. ''Also the stereo. Washing machine. Freezer. Bedroom set. If you miss a payment, they come to the house and pick it up. I was late paying two or three years ago. They took back the stereo. It was $157. If you miss, you can go back and pay them and get the same stereo, so I got it again. The bedroom set altogether, they charged about $2,000. I paid $150 a month on that. It had a bed headboard but no mattress, nightstands, dresser drawers.'' 
 Some people can't keep up with the payments. Others really want to rent only for a short time. In all, the company says that more than 70 percent of the goods are returned.
 ''The business model is to get the TV back,'' Eric N. Gioia, a Democratic City Council member from Queens, said. ''Most people don't get their houses or cars repossessed if they're a day late.'' This week, an aide to Mr. Gioia, Zoe Epstein, found that 32 of the 38 Rent-A-Centers are in neighborhoods that are primarily black or Latino. Mr. Gioia wrote to the Department of Consumer Affairs, urging it to investigate the business under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
 Rent-A-Center says that he is mistaken, and that nationally, most of the people who rent or buy are white. ''We locate where our customers are -- in urban and rural areas across the United States,'' said Gus Whitworth, a spokesman for Rent-A-Center. ''Our pricing reflects the flexibility and high level of service our customers have come to expect.'' 
 Steve Loiseau, a manager for Home Depot, plans to have a gathering at his house to watch the Giants play the Patriots. In the Bushwick Rent-A-Center, he walked the aisle of televisions, settling on a 47-inch set to be delivered Saturday. He thought about buying it, but the price was out of his reach: $2,000 if he paid within three months, twice that if he paid over time. ''So I'm going to have it for two weeks,'' Mr. Loiseau said. ''It cost me $150 and change. What can I say?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (78%); SALES FINANCING (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: RENT A CENTER INC (91%)

TICKER: RCII (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532310 GENERAL RENTAL CENTERS (91%); NAICS532299 ALL OTHER CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (91%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



39 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 967 words

PERSON: Viktor Schreckengost 

HEADLINE: Viktor Schreckengost, Master Of Product Design, Dies at 101

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Viktor Schreckengost, a distinguished yet largely unsung industrial designer who spent most of the 20th century quietly infusing every corner of the United States with his work, from dinnerware for the average home to the prized Art Deco ''Jazz'' bowls for the White House, died last Saturday while wintering in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 101.
 The death was confirmed by Chip Nowacek, Mr. Schreckengost's stepson and the executive director of the Viktor Schreckengost Foundation. At his death Mr. Schreckengost was an emeritus professor of industrial design at the Cleveland Institute of Art, where he had been on the faculty for 78 years. 
 Industrial design democratizes high style, and Mr. Schreckengost was widely considered among the most democratic industrial designers. He made, quite literally, the stuff of life -- things found routinely in homes, backyards and garages in this country and around the world. He designed bicycles for Sears and everyday china for American Limoges. He designed children's toys and pedal cars; flashlights, furniture and fans; lawn chairs, lawn mowers and golf carts; baby walkers and artificial limbs.
 Mr. Schreckengost's impact on the United States economy has been estimated at more than $200 billion, Crain's Cleveland Business reported in 2005.
 In 2006 Mr. Schreckengost was awarded the National Medal of Arts, the country's highest cultural honor. His work is in the permanent collection of major museums, including the Renwick Gallery, the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum and the Art Institute of Chicago.
 Mr. Schreckengost belonged to the first great generation of American industrial designers, which included luminaries like Russel Wright, Norman Bel Geddes and Raymond Loewy. If he was less well known than they, that was, by his account, a matter of choice: a native Ohioan, Mr. Schreckengost elected to make his career far from the lights -- and the sleek public-relations machinery -- of New York, living and working in Cleveland Heights for most of his life.
 The lights of New York did, however, inspire his most famous piece, the ''Jazz'' bowl, commissioned by an anonymous client in 1930. Originally trained as a ceramicist, Mr. Schreckengost was then working for the Cowan Pottery Studio in Rocky River, Ohio. One day he picked up what looked like a routine order for a punch bowl with a New York theme.
 Mr. Schreckengost made a large bowl, glazed in black and vibrant blue and decorated with stylized images of that city's Jazz Age revelry: skyscrapers and ships, stars and neon signs, a Champagne bottle and a tray of cocktails. The fact that it was still Prohibition did not deter him.
 The client, a woman named Eleanor, was delighted with the bowl, Mr. Schreckengost learned. Her husband, Franklin, liked it too. Mrs. Roosevelt, then the first lady of New York State, ordered two more ''Jazz'' bowls from Mr. Schreckengost, one for her home in Hyde Park, another for a house on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington that she fully expected to occupy in 1933.
 The bowl was later put into limited production, selling for $50; fewer than 50 bowls of this kind are known to have been made. Widely photographed, the ''Jazz'' bowls are considered signal examples of Art Deco style. In 2004 Sotheby's sold one of the $50 bowls at auction for $254,400.
 Victor Sebring Schreckengost was born on June 26, 1906, in Sebring, Ohio. His father was a commercial potter, as were two uncles. Victor and his siblings cheerfully made their own toys from the lumps of clay their father brought home; melted crayons made fine glaze.
 In 1929 Victor Schreckengost earned a diploma in design, with a minor in ceramics, from the Cleveland Institute of Art -- or, more precisely, from the Cleveland School of Art, as it was then known. He did further study at the Kunstgewerbeschule in Vienna. There everyone spelled his first name with a ''k,'' and Mr. Schreckengost became so accustomed to it that he kept the spelling ever after.
 Returning to Cleveland, Mr. Schreckengost joined the School of Art faculty in 1930; in 1933 he created the industrial design program there, the first of its kind in the country. He taught generations of well-known industrial designers, among them Joe Oros, chief designer the 1965 Ford Mustang. In World War II Mr. Schreckengost served in the Navy, in which he helped design radar-recognition systems and, at the war's end, artificial limbs.
 Mr. Schreckengost's first wife, the former Nadine Averill, whom he married in 1935, died in 1975. He is survived by his second wife, the former Virgene Nowacek, known as Gene, whom he married in 1991; three stepsons, Chip Nowacek of Cleveland Heights, David Nowacek of Milwaukee and Douglas Nowacek of Tallahassee; and eight step-grandchildren.
 His other well-known designs include the ''Flower Shop'' china pattern and Jiffy Ware line of ceramic food containers for American Limoges in the 1930s; the first cab-over-engine truck, designed in 1933, which added five feet to the hauling area; spectacular streamlined pedal cars from the late 1930s and afterward, shaped like race cars, jet planes and atomic missiles; and the Sears Spaceliner bicycle, from the mid-1960s.
 Mr. Schreckengost's design credo -- function first, form after -- was perhaps nowhere more evident than in the creation of his ''Beverly Hills'' lawn chair, made in 1941. The chair comprised two pieces of brightly colored stamped steel on a tubular base. To mold a comfortable seat, Mr. Schreckengost cut a barrel to the appropriate height, put eight inches of soft clay on top and covered the clay with a thin sheet of plastic. He promised a drink to each person who sat on the mound of clay.
 Four hundred twenty-eight democratic derrieres later, Mr. Schreckengost had the mold for his very functional seat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Viktor Schreckengost, the prolific industrial designer, in 2006, in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, where he lived and worked.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID JOSEPH)
Among Viktor Schreckengost's many creations were the ''Jazz'' bowl, around 1930, top, and above, the 1941 ''Pursuit Plane'' pedal car.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKTOR SCHRECKENGOST FOUNDATION)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS/JAMIE-ANDREA YANAK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); OFFICE DESIGN (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (62%); STEPPARENTS (56%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (54%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



40 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Bracing Small Business in a Turbulent Economy

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
THE Bush administration and others have praised small business as the engine of American job creation, but small-company owners are being squeezed by the shaky economy and rising health costs. 
 Their chief advocate, the Small Business Administration, has been criticized as ineffective by Democrats in Congress, by women who own businesses and by other advocacy groups. Its budget has also fallen by a third since 2000. But the agency is trying to revitalize itself under the leadership of Steven C. Preston, who took over in July 2006.
 Mr. Preston, former executive vice president of ServiceMaster, outlined steps the agency is taking to aid small businesses. Here are excerpts from the interview: 
 Q.If the economy is headed for a serious downturn, or worse, how will this affect small business?
 A. The indicators still show a fundamentally strong economy, but small businesses are seeing higher fuel costs, higher health care costs and potentially a slower growth. So the cost factors as well as some of these other issues are affecting them.
 Q.What is the S.B.A. going to do to help small businesses grow?
 A. We already guarantee about $75 billion worth of capital supporting small business. We and our resource partners train or counsel about one and a half million small businesses every year. We support small businesses in the process of getting about $80 billion worth of revenue from the federal procurement programs.
 What happens in a situation like we're seeing right now is that these types of services become even more critical because we help lenders make loans to small businesses that they wouldn't make loans to otherwise.
 Q.Have you loosened any guidelines to make loans easier?
 A. No, but what happens is that banks will use our loan guarantees if it is a business that maybe needs longer payback periods, or maybe an unconventional structure or may not quite meet their credit standards. So in a situation where banks are pulling back on credit somewhat, having our guarantee becomes more important in reaching those businesses.
 Q.Can you do anything to push them to be more lenient?
 A. We have a nationwide effort going on right now to spend time with banks to make sure that they are looking at using all of our products where they are relevant. I personally am getting involved in outreach to major banks to make sure they are helping get capital to small business. 
 Q.The economic stimulus would double the amount small business can deduct for expenses. Why is this a good idea?
 A. It encourages small businesses to make investments now, and provides them with the financial incentive to do so. And those investments fuel the economy. Secondly, they are making those investments to expand their business, or to leverage their employees through capital investments, or they're upgrading their equipment.
 Q.Is S.B.A. proposing anything for the upcoming government budget to shore up small businesses?
 A. The uncertainty about whether the tax cuts, which are set to expire in 2010, will be extended, is hurting small business right now in terms of investment and understanding what their ability to deploy cash is going to be. If those taxes go up, they're going to have less money to hire, less money to expand and less money to invest in their business.
 Another very important thing is putting in place policies that reduce health care costs for small business. The president has been a strong advocate of small-business health plans, which allow small businesses to band together and buy health care through buying groups. It's a simple way they can leverage size. In addition, he has proposed giving small businesses the same tax benefits that large businesses have in buying health care.
 And we need to open foreign markets for small business. Right now, for example, small businesses represent 35 percent of our exports to Colombia. We want to open those markets so small business can expand their revenue base and increase our competitiveness.
 Q.Why are these free trade agreements important?
 A. One reason is that they provide better intellectual property protection so if you've got a technology product or a knowledge-based product, you've got to make sure they're protected when they go overseas. And these agreements simplify the administrative process and make it faster to get goods over the border.
 Q.What more can the agency do to counter criticism that it's not doing enough to help small businesses, particularly those that are female-owned, to win government contracts?
 A. Our contracts to women-owned small businesses reached $11.6 billion in 2006, a record level. It was also the largest growth in history, by $1.5 billion. The federal government hasn't reached its 5 percent goal for purchase of its good and services from women-owned businesses, but we're hitting records every year. 
 We are holding more outreach events and events to match businesses with buyers. We also have goals for all district offices to hold those events, and those have been ratcheted up this year. We are also providing technology tools so agencies can find the right small-business vendor to meet their particular need, and putting more S.B.A. people on site with federal contractors. We retrained the entire field network to help small businesses in the contracting arena. 
 So we are doing more than we ever have before -- some of it's people, some of it's technology and some of it is extended outreach.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STEVEN C. PRESTON (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE ROSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%)

COMPANY: SERVICEMASTER CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561730 LANDSCAPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS561710 EXTERMINATING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (57%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7342 DISINFECTING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (57%); SIC0782 LAWN & GARDEN SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



41 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Wesley Snipes Cleared of Serious Tax Charges

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

DATELINE: OCALA, Fla. 

 BODY:
A federal jury returned a mixed verdict against the actor Wesley Snipes on Friday, acquitting him of the most serious tax charges he faced, but convicting him on three of six lesser charges. The case was the most prominent tax prosecution since the billionaire hotelier Leona Helmsley was convicted of tax fraud in 1989.
 Mr. Snipes, who has built a worldwide following acting in films like the ''Blade'' vampire trilogy, must pay up to $17 million in back taxes plus penalties and interest.
 He had become an unlikely public face for the tax denier movement, whose members maintain that Americans are not obligated to pay income taxes and that the government extracts taxes from its citizens illegally. 
 The jury found Mr. Snipes not guilty on two felony charges of fraud and conspiracy. He was also acquitted on three misdemeanor charges of failing to file tax returns or to pay taxes from 2002 to 2004. But the jury found him guilty of failing to file returns or pay taxes from 1999 through 2001. He faces up to three years in prison. If convicted of the felonies, he would have faced up to 16 years. 
 JJ MacNab, a Maryland insurance analyst who attended the trial and is writing a book about tax deniers, said ''the verdict shows that promoters face serious jail time'' but clients who follow their advice will face a lesser but still serious risk of imprisonment.
 Mr. Snipes's two co-defendants -- Eddie Ray Kahn, a promoter of tax denial, and Douglas Rosile, a former accountant -- were convicted on the fraud and conspiracy charges.
 It was the fourth major case in which the Justice Department failed to win convictions in cases against prominent tax deniers. The verdict drew whoops of joy outside the federal courthouse here from fellow tax deniers who immediately proclaimed it another victory that would draw more people to their cause. 
 The courts have declared the tax denier arguments are frivolous. Even Mr. Snipes's defense lawyers, who called the denier claims ''dead wrong'' in their closing arguments to the jury, reiterated that statement after the verdict. 
 Mr. Snipes will pay all of his income taxes plus penalties and interest, said Robert E. Barnes and Robert G. Bernhoft, who defended him. 
 ''He will make full amends and pay everything,'' Mr. Barnes said.
 Mr. Bernhoft said Congress should repeal criminal tax laws and treat tax evasion as a civil matter.
 Robert E. O'Neill, the United States attorney here, said current law ''is entirely subjective'' on criminal intent because juries must decide whether a defendant ''sincerely believes'' he was not required to pay taxes.
 The Justice Department has told Congress there is no need to revise the tax laws on intent. But when Mr. O'Neill was asked whether the laws should be changed, he said, ''Absolutely.''
 The defense, prosecution and Ms. MacNab all said the verdict showed that the jury recognized the promoters as criminals and saw Mr. Snipes as their victim. They also agreed that the reason the jury acquitted Mr. Snipes of not filing his tax returns in 2002 through 2004 was because he had been told he was the target of a criminal investigation and jurors believed that he was exercising his right to remain silent. The jury convicted him of failing to file his tax returns before he knew was a suspect.
 Even as Congress has reduced income tax rates, the tax denier movement has spread, fueled by high payroll taxes, political attacks on the Internal Revenue Service and anger among people who have not benefited from strong overall economic growth.
 Instead of prosecuting all offenders, the Justice Department brings cases against well-known individuals, hoping that widespread news coverage will encourage compliance, a policy known as general deterrence. The Snipes prosecution, like the three earlier cases that resulted in full acquittals, appears to have backfired. 
 The Justice Department has for months declined requests to provide an official who would discuss its tax prosecution policies on the record.
 Tax deniers assert variously that the tax laws are valid but do not apply to them, that no law makes anyone liable for taxes and that the government tricks people into paying. Promoters of tax denial claim that people can legally stop paying income taxes by executing certain documents, or by not signing others, like tax returns. Courts have rejected all these arguments.
 Mr. Snipes, 45, was indicted in October 2006 for filing a false claim for a $7 million refund (of taxes paid in 1997, before he stoped paying taxes), and conspiracy with his two co-defendants to defraud the government through that claim, which was not paid.
 Since 1986, Mr. Snipes has appeared in more than 50 films, earning at least $103 million, court papers showed, including more than $58 million in the years covered by the indictment, 1999 through 2004.
 Mr. Snipes has built a huge following, especially overseas, with his portrayals of intrepid detectives and fearless vampire slayers and his occasional comedic roles. In addition to the ''Blade'' series, he starred in movies like the action film ''Drop Zone,'' the political intrigue ''The Art of War,'' and, with Sean Connery, the corporate crime thriller ''Rising Sun.'' 
 The defense rested on Monday without calling any witnesses. Mr. Snipes declined to answer questions outside the courthouse on Friday, where a gaggle of reporters was surrounded by dozens of fans from this central Florida city.
 In closing arguments on Tuesday, lawyers for Mr. Snipes sought to portray him as a well-intended victim of bad advice by his co-defendants. They called his tax theories ''kooky'' and ''crazy,'' but said acting on these views did not make him a criminal because he disclosed his actions. 
 The Supreme Court has ruled that tax deniers can demonstrate the absence of criminal intent by asserting that they ''sincerely believe'' that they are not required to pay taxes, although they cannot escape the levies.
 Prosecutors argued that Mr. Snipes showed criminal intent when he sent the government three bogus checks to pay $14 million in taxes and an amended tax return that was subtly altered with software to insert the word ''no'' before ''penalty of perjury.''
 Defense lawyers said Mr. Snipes did not file tax returns after his indictment because the I.R.S., by making him the target of a criminal investigation, ''forced'' him to exercise his right to remain silent. 
 After his indictment, however, Mr. Snipes sent the government a series of rambling letters describing his tax theories and warning that ''pursuit of such a high-profile target will open the door to your increased collateral risk.'' 
 Mr. O'Neill, the lead prosecutor, called the filings ''gibberish'' whose purpose was to thwart law enforcement.
 In one 600-page document, Mr. Snipes said he was legally a ''nontaxpayer'' and the tax laws did not apply to him because he was not a resident of the District of Columbia, was not a federal official and was not engaged in any trade or business, all common tax denier arguments.
 Mr. Snipes also complained that the I.R.S. violated his 14th Amendment rights to equal protection because it would not help him establish what he said was his rightful status as a legal nontaxpayer.
 Mr. Snipes joined the tax denier movement after becoming upset when told that his 1999 income tax would be more than $2 million, Carmen Baker, his former assistant, testified.
 A mutual acquaintance introduced Mr. Snipes to one of his co-defendants, Mr. Kahn. Mr. Kahn operated a Christian ministry, the GuidingLight of God Ministries, and a central Florida company called the American Rights Litigators that helped tax deniers avoid paying.
 Mr. Kahn, who was imprisoned for tax crimes in 1985 to 1987, fled to Panama after the 2006 indictment. He was extradited to stand trial on the latest charges but refused to attend the proceedings, remaining in his jail cell, after telling Judge William T. Hodges that the court had no authority over him. 
 Mr. Snipes and Mr. Rosile are free on bail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two of Wesley Snipes's six defense lawyers, Daniel Meachum, left, and Robert G. Bernhoft, after the jury verdict. (pg. C9)
 Wesley Snipes declined to comment after his trial in Florida. (pg. C1)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL SANDIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (92%); JURY TRIALS (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FELONIES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); INCOME TAX (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PRISONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



42 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Santana And Mets Complete Record Deal

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL; Murray Chass contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It took every bit of their allotted 72 hours, an additional 90 minutes and $137.5 million, but the Mets finally secured the best pitcher in baseball. They reached an agreement with Johan Santana, the dominant left-hander acquired Tuesday from the Minnesota Twins, shortly before 6:30 p.m. Friday, signing him to a contract that would make him the highest-paid pitcher in baseball history. 
 All that stands between Santana and an introductory news conference next week is the completion of his physical exam, which is scheduled for Saturday. 
 The Mets and Santana agreed to a six-year, $137.5 million contract through 2013, with an option for the 2014 season, according to a club official who was granted anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about a trade that had not been officially completed.
 Santana will be 34 at the end of the guaranteed portion of the contract, which with the low interest rate on deferred money would be worth about $20 million a year in present-day dollars. 
 Santana had one year and $13.25 million remaining on his contract, but instead of negotiating an extension, the sides worked out a new deal. 
 After acquiring Santana on Tuesday from the Minnesota Twins for four prospects, the Mets were given 72 hours to negotiate. With the deadline looming, they asked the Twins for permission for additional time, which was approved by the commissioner's office, and they were granted a two-hour window. They needed about another 90 minutes to complete the negotiations. 
 The Mets and Santana's representatives, Peter and Ed Greenberg, were haggling over the length of the contract. The cause of the stalemate, as expected, was the Mets' reluctance to give Santana six guaranteed years. They preferred a five-year deal with vesting options that could be reached relatively easily. 
 But in the end, with the leverage in Santana's favor, the Mets relented and awarded Santana a contract that eclipsed the $126 million deal the left-hander Barry Zito signed with the San Francisco Giants before last season. 
 The Mets' investment in Santana should push their 2008 payroll into uncharted territory. With three arbitration cases still awaiting resolution, the Mets are projected to have a payroll of more than $140 million, the largest in team history, dwarfing the $120 million they spent in 2007. The new figure should rank them behind only the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox. 
 Still, the expenditure comes at a time when the Mets can certainly afford it. They are a year away from opening a new stadium, Citi Field, and their fledgling third-year television network, SportsNet New York, will undoubtedly experience a ratings jump with a competitive team and a rotation headlined by Santana. 
 With a few other moves possible, namely adding a right-handed hitting veteran outfielder or another starting pitcher like Kyle Lohse, it is conceivable that the Mets' payroll could sneak past $150 million. It is unlikely that they will exceed the $155 million luxury-tax threshold and be forced to pay a tax for the first time. 
 For Santana, the contract underscores his status as the best pitcher in baseball, one who is compensated accordingly. For the Mets, the pending acquisition deflects attention from their late-season collapse and directs it squarely toward the arrival of their first heralded addition of the off-season. 
 But for Omar Minaya, this is the fifth major acquisition of his three and a half years as general manager, and the third time he has gambled a significant sum on a pitcher. 
 His first four trades had mixed results. But Pedro Martinez left the Red Sox after their 2004 World Series championship season because the Mets offered what Boston did not, a guaranteed fourth year. Martinez's presence gave the Mets instant credibility and aided in the recruitment of other free agents, but he has been beset by injuries for most of the last two seasons and his health still presents a concern heading into the final year of his contract. 
 Carlos Beltran has overcome a disastrous beginning to his Mets career, compiling two consecutive solid seasons, but occasionally he remains the target of frustrated fans. His good friend Carlos Delgado followed a strong 2006 with a disappointing 2007, when Delgado's age (35) appeared to catch up to him. Closer Billy Wagner, by and large, has pitched effectively, but he has had his share of rough outings. 
 Of the four, only Beltran was younger than 30 and still in his prime when he joined the Mets. But now the team has added Santana, who turns 29 on March 13, and whom they expect to help alleviate the pressure on the pitching staff -- from Martinez and the two young starters, John Maine and Oliver Perez, to an overused bullpen that combusted during the final month of last season. 
 Since 2004, when he won the first of his two Cy Young awards, Santana ranks first among qualifying pitchers in victories (70), opponent batting average (.211) and strikeouts (983), and second in earned run average (2.89), innings pitched (912 1/3) and strikeouts per nine innings (9.70). 
 By switching leagues, Santana can take advantage of the fact that his best pitch, a changeup, is built on deception. He will also be facing players who are largely unfamiliar with his pitches. 
 Santana has a 16-4 career record in 35 appearances -- 24 starts -- against National League teams, holding hitters to a .187 average while posting a 2.27 E.R.A. that is the best among pitchers who have pitched at least 150 interleague innings, according to Stats LLC. He figures to provide particular value against the rival Philadelphia Phillies, who employ two of the best left-handed hitters in baseball, Chase Utley and Ryan Howard.
 The Mets have 18 chances against the Phillies to avenge losing their division crown, and the addition of Santana figures to heighten the rivalry. After all, with a record deal completed, Santana will be around for seven more seasons trying to fulfill the expectations and lead the Mets to the World Series.
 INSIDE PITCH
 The Mets avoided arbitration with their left-handed specialist, Pedro Feliciano, on Friday by signing him to a one-year, $1.025 million contract.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Johan Santana's total package with the Mets could be worth $150 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM McISAAC/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



43 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: The Dollar's Long Fade

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
DOLLAR'S FUTURE The dollar may gain a bit against other currencies in 2008, Bloomberg Markets reports, but its long-term prospects are bleak. The days when the dollar was strong -- both in terms of purchasing power and prestige -- may be past.
 ''Economists say the currency, which has declined in five of the past six years against the euro, is caught in a downdraft as investors pour into Asia, prompting a tectonic shift in economic power from the U.S.,'' James G. Neuger and Simon Kennedy wrote. 
 In 2007, the Chinese yuan climbed 6.9 percent against the dollar, and the Indian rupee gained 11.9 percent.
 In the short term, the dollar may gain, though.
 ''Deutsche Bank A.G., the world's largest currency trader, predicts the dollar will rise at least 5 percent in 2008 versus the euro,'' the authors wrote, but they quickly added that ''longer term, the slowing U.S. economy -- hurt by a banking and consumer credit meltdown that's only getting worse -- will weigh heavily on the dollar.''
 Economists and academics quoted in the article raise the possibility that someday soon the dollar will no longer be the world's most dominant currency.
 PLASTIC PAIN The weak dollar makes overseas travel more expensive. And the fact that many credit card companies charge for converting purchases made in foreign currencies into American dollars makes purchases on international travel pinch even more.
 Get ready for more pain. Some Australian businesses have started passing along the service fees that credit card companies charge them for processing a transaction, National Geographic Traveler reports. 
 And the practice may spread.
 New European Union banking policies, David Swanson wrote, ''will permit all European states to create their own individual policies on surcharging.'' The practice is already allowed in Britain, ''although the surcharges have been mostly limited to taxi fares, student travel agencies and budget airlines.'' In the past, merchants have absorbed the cost, usually at least 1 percent of the transaction.
 DIVIDENDS OVER THERE In turbulent financial times like these, investors who want to stay in equities frequently start buying high-yielding stocks. 
 And today, Smart Money reports, many of the companies paying the most in dividends can be found outside the United States.
 They may become ''one of the best plays in the booming overseas markets,'' Reshma Kapadia and Anojja Shah wrote. ''They have better growth prospects than many of their stateside counterparts and a new focus on returning money to shareholders.'' 
 The average yield of the Standard & Poor's 500 is 1.8 percent. Stocks based in the Asia-Pacific region are yielding 2.5 percent and those in Europe offer a 3 percent yield, the reporters said. Not only are the yields higher, they added, but they have been rising at a faster rate. 
 ''Over the past three years, Asia-Pacific dividends have been growing at 20 percent a year; Europe, at 18 percent; and the U.S., at 13 percent.''
 To come up with stocks to recommend, the magazine looked at foreign firms that trade as American depositary receipts, had a yield at least 50 percent higher than the S.& P. average and had ''plenty of cash flow.'' It listed five: AXA, a French financial company; CPFL Energia, a Brazilian utility; Magyar Telekom, a Hungarian phone company; Taiwan Semiconductor; and Total, the French oil and gas company. 
 FINAL TAKE Apparently Americans are willing to bet on more than the Super Bowl.
 Money magazine, citing research by the nonpartisan Employee Benefit Research Institute, reports that 25 percent of people ''say they'd give up their health coverage at work if their employer gave them $25,000.'' PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (86%); US DOLLAR (79%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); WRITERS (75%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (63%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (62%); AIRLINES (61%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (83%); DBK (FRA) (83%); DBK (BIT) (83%); DBETN (JSE) (83%); DBA (ASX) (83%); DB (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



44 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: G.M.'s Car Sales Rise in an Otherwise Tough Month

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Automakers got off to a rough start in 2008, as expected, but General Motors served up a surprise on Friday with higher sales in January on strong demand for its new car models.
 G.M. was the only major company that sold more vehicles last month than in January 2007 -- 2.8 percent more. Even the three Japanese automakers reported declines on Friday, an extremely rare occurrence, as did Ford Motor and Chrysler. Chrysler fared the worst, down 12.1 percent, as sales of its sport utility vehicles and pickups plunged.
 Over all, sales fell 4.3 percent, making January the industry's worst month since October 2005, according to Autodata, a statistical tracking firm. Unlike late 2005, when the Detroit automakers sapped demand by offering deep summer discounts, last month's decline fell squarely on the sluggish economy. 
 Auto executives said the two recent interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve and the tax rebate checks that Americans can expect this summer should help bring people into showrooms. The rebates were included in the $146 billion stimulus package passed last week by the House.
 ''We think it will boost consumer confidence. They'll feel better about themselves,'' G.M.'s chief sales analyst, Mike DiGiovanni, said. Most taxpayers would receive $600 to $1,200 under the House measure. The Senate is now debating the package.
 ''It will be immediate in terms of a psychological impact,'' Mr. DiGiovanni said. ''And for our business, consumer confidence is really the key.''
 Low consumer confidence, along with high gasoline prices and a housing slowdown, were a drag on auto sales through much of 2007. Analysts and the carmakers' economists predict that Americans will buy fewer than 16 million vehicles this year, the lowest number since 1998.
 Last month's sales were the equivalent of an annualized rate of 15.24 million, although January is typically the weakest month for car dealerships.
 Despite the drop in demand, Detroit automakers say they are trying hard to avoid the big discounts that in the past produced quick gains but hurt long-term prospects. Chrysler and Ford both reduced incentives on a per-vehicle basis in January, according to Edmunds.com, which gives car-buying advice to consumers.
 But discounting cost G.M. more than $3,400 a vehicle last month, about the same as in December but nearly $1,000 more than in January 2007. It was a big reason that G.M. managed to buck the trend.
 ''The people that were out there shopping were really concentrating on price,'' said Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis at Edmunds. ''They were also very aggressive in terms of their marketing.''
 Mr. Toprak said the automakers must be careful in their wooing of consumers who, spurred by lower rates on auto loans or a check from the government, decide to start shopping for a car.
 ''They don't want to tip the balance back to the days of 2001 and 2002, when everything was about zero-percent financing,'' he said.
 Ford's head of marketing, James D. Farley, responding to a report that the company plans to increase discounts this year to ensure that its older products are competitive, said the biggest offers will be available ''in certain regions and certain vehicles in certain months.''
 ''We will continue to be very opportunistic and targeted with our incentives,'' said Mr. Farley, who joined Ford from Toyota Motors in 2007.
 All three Detroit automakers said they pulled back on less-profitable sales to rental-car companies last month, but while G.M.'s dealerships sold more than enough vehicles to compensate for that reduction, Ford's and Chrysler's did not. 
 The higher sales, combined with cuts in production, left G.M. with its smallest inventory of unsold vehicles since 1983.
 Sales of G.M.'s two most significant models rose dramatically. It sold 82 percent more of the Chevrolet Malibu, a midsize sedan that was redesigned to make it more competitive with the Honda Accord and the Toyota Camry. Sales of the Cadillac CTS nearly doubled from a year earlier.
 January showed how far all three Detroit companies have come in their efforts to build more appealing sedans and hatchbacks after years of ignoring cars to focus on the more lucrative S.U.V.'s and trucks. Sales of the Ford Focus, a compact car redesigned for the 2008 model year, were up 44 percent. Chrysler, led by the Dodge Avenger, Dodge Caliber and Chrysler Sebring, sold 29 percent more cars than a year earlier.
 Though lower truck sales made Chrysler the only Detroit automaker to lose market share last month, company executives said they were pleased with the results and that, perhaps more importantly, so was Chrysler's new owner, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management.
 ''We've got our nose to the grind,'' Steven J. Landry, Chrysler's vice president for sales and marketing, said. ''We hit all our internal targets for our owners.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHARTS: The charts show: How the Industry Fared, How Automakers fared, and the Most Popular Cars and Trucks for January 2008. (Source: Autodata) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); TAX LAW (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); SALES REBATES (58%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



45 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Sets Profit Record: $40.6 Billion Last Year

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
By any measure, Exxon Mobil's performance last year was a blowout. 
 The company reported Friday that it beat its own record for the highest profits ever recorded by any company, with net income rising 3 percent, to $40.6 billion, thanks to surging oil prices. The company's sales, more than $404 billion, exceeded the gross domestic product of 120 countries.
 Exxon Mobil earned more than $1,287 of profit for every second of 2007. 
 The company also had its most profitable quarter ever. It said net income rose 14 percent, to $11.7 billion, or $2.13 a share, in the last three months of the year. The company handily beat analysts' expectations of $1.95 a share, after missing targets in the last two quarters.
 Like most oil companies, Exxon benefited from a near doubling of oil prices, as well as higher demand for gasoline last year. Crude oil prices rose from a low of around $50 a barrel in early 2007 to almost $100 by the end of the year -- the biggest jump in oil prices in any one year. 
 ''Exxon sets the gold standard for the industry,'' said Fadel Gheit, an oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company in New York. 
 Oil companies have all reported strong profits in recent days. Chevron, the second-largest American oil company, said Friday that its profits rose 9 percent last year, to $18.7 billion; Royal Dutch Shell on Thursday reported net income for 2007 of $31 billion, up 23 percent and the largest figure ever for a British company. 
 The backlash against the oil industry, which has periodically intensified as gasoline prices have risen in recent years, was predictably swift on Friday. 
 One advocacy group, the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights, called the profits ''unjustifiable.'' Some politicians said Congress should rescind the tax breaks awarded two years ago to encourage oil companies to increase their investments in the United States and raise domestic production. 
 ''Congratulations to Exxon Mobil and Chevron -- for reminding Americans why they cringe every time they pull into a gas station,'' said Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York. 
 Exxon vigorously defended itself against claims it was responsible for the rise in oil prices. Anticipating a reaction, Exxon has been running advertisements that highlight the size of the investments it makes to find and develop energy resources -- more than $80 billion from 2002 to 2006, with an additional $20 billion planned for 2008. The company says that in the next two decades, energy demand is expected to grow by 40 percent.
 ''Our earnings reflect the size of our business,'' Kenneth P. Cohen, Exxon's vice president for public affairs, said on a conference call with journalists. ''We hope people will focus on the reality of the challenge we are facing.''
 Given the darkening prospects for the American economy, which may be headed toward a recession, some analysts said oil company profits might soon reach a peak. Oil prices could fall this year if an economic slowdown reduces energy consumption in the United States, the world's biggest oil consumer. 
 Such concerns have pushed oil futures prices down about 10 percent since the beginning of the year. Oil fell 3 percent, to $88.96 a barrel, on Friday on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Exxon shares fell a half-percent, to $85.95.
 Some analysts said high oil prices, and the record profits they create, were masking growing difficulties at many of the major Western oil giants. Faced with resurgent national oil companies -- like PetroChina, Petrobras in Brazil, or Gazprom in Russia -- the Western companies are having a hard time increasing production and renewing reserves. 
 As oil prices increase, countries like Russia and Venezuela have tightened the screws on foreign investors in recent years, limiting access to energy resources or demanding a bigger share of the oil revenue. At the same time, many of the traditional production regions, like the North Sea and Alaska, are slowly drying up.
 Western majors, which once dominated the global energy business, now control only about 6 percent of the world's oil reserves. Last year, PetroChina overtook Exxon as the world's largest publicly traded oil company. 
 Recently, a quarrel over a major new field in Kazakhstan was resolved after an international consortium, which included Exxon, allowed the Kazakh national oil company to double its stake in the multibillion-dollar venture. In Venezuela, Conoco pulled out of a large heavy oil project last summer after failing to agree on new and much more restrictive terms with the government of President Hugo Chavez. Exxon has filed for arbitration in a similar case.
 Speaking at an industry conference last month, Tim Cejka, the president of Exxon's exploration business, acknowledged that access to oil fields was becoming increasingly challenging. But he said that the global oil industry has been through similar periods of restricted access.
 ''Access comes in cycles,'' Mr. Cejka said, ''and I have got to admit, it's tough right now.'' 
 Excluding acquisitions, Exxon was the only major international oil company with a reserve replacement rate exceeding 100 percent from 2004 to 2006, meaning it found more than one barrel for each barrel it produced, according to a report by Moody's Investors Service, the rating agency. Exxon said it would release its reserve replacement figures this month.
 Exxon increased its hydrocarbon production in the fourth quarter by 1 percent, thanks to growing natural gas output from projects in Qatar. Natural gas production rose 12 percent in the fourth quarter, to 10.4 billion cubic feet a day. Oil production fell by 6 percent in the last quarter, to 2.5 million barrels a day. Because of the structure of some of its production-sharing contracts in Africa, Exxon is entitled to fewer oil barrels as prices rise.
 Exxon also spent $35.6 billion for share buybacks and dividends last year, $3 billion more than in 2006. 
 The OPEC cartel, which was meeting in Vienna on Friday, left its production levels unchanged, resisting pressure from developing nations to pump more oil into the global economy. 
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is set to meet again next month, and the cartel signaled it would be ready to cut production then to make up for a seasonal slowdown in demand in the second quarter. OPEC's actions mean the cartel is determined to keep prices from falling below $80 a barrel, according to energy experts.
 OPEC said in a statement that the uncertainties in the global economy required ''vigilant attention to their impact on key market fundamentals.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A front-page Inside summary on Saturday about Exxon Mobil's record $40.6 billion in net income misstated, in some editions, the period that the profit covered. It was for the year, not for the quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GAS STATIONS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); GASOLINE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (68%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



46 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Eyes on Google, Microsoft Bids $44 Billion for Yahoo

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Miguel Helft reported from San Francisco and Andrew Ross Sorkin from New York.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Jerry Yang, the chief executive of Yahoo, was finishing a regularly scheduled company board meeting Thursday night when his assistant interrupted him with an urgent phone call. 
 It was Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, and his message was curt. He did not call to negotiate. Microsoft would make public a hostile $44.6 billion offer for Yahoo early Friday morning in a bold move to counter Google's online pre-eminence. 
 Mr. Yang, in shock, rushed back with the news to his directors, some of whom were getting ready to leave Yahoo's headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif. The board meeting was no longer over; it would turn into a strategy session that stretched into the night. 
 The message that jolted Mr. Yang also jolted the technology industry. Yahoo, founded by two Stanford graduate students, Mr. Yang and David Filo, was once the leader of the dot-com world. But it has been dethroned in recent years by Google, itself founded by two Stanford graduate students. 
 For its part, Microsoft has struggled to compete with Google's ever-widening lead in search and advertising as the computer world shifts from desktop products to online software and services supported by ads. 
 Each company has persistently tried to best Google but failed. ''No one can compete with Google on their own anymore,'' said Jon Miller, the former chairman and chief executive of AOL, which itself is struggling to compete in online advertising. ''There has to be consolidation among the major players. It has been a long time coming, and now it is here.''
 If consummated, the deal would instantly redraw the competitive landscape on the Internet. And it would escalate the rivalry between Microsoft and Google, already the most intense high-stakes battle in the technology world, over who will dominate the booming online advertising business. 
 The offer of $31 a share represents a 62 percent premium over Yahoo's closing stock price of $19.18 on Thursday, a far cry from its peak of $118.75 right before the dot-com bubble crash. The offer includes stock and cash and is likely to put intense pressure on Mr. Yang and Yahoo's board, which ended earlier merger discussions with Microsoft about a year ago.
 Microsoft shares fell 6.6 percent Friday, to close at $30.45; Yahoo rose 48 percent to close at $28.38. 
 Yahoo has spent billions of dollars in recent years to develop better search and advertising technology, and started a clumsy effort to create Hollywood-style entertainment for the Web. But Yahoo's growth has lagged, prompting Mr. Yang, who was appointed chief executive last summer amid growing shareholder dissatisfaction, to announce major layoffs this week -- 1,000 of its 14,300 workers. He also warned investors that a turnaround was not likely until 2009.
 For Microsoft, the bid underscores both the company's urgency and its determination to succeed online. ''I personally thought long and hard about this,'' Mr. Ballmer said Friday morning after the bid was announced. The bid for Yahoo, he said, was ''the right path.''
 The two companies, distant No. 2 and No. 3 players in Internet search, previously considered combining into a more powerful force that would have the power and audience to take on Google, No. 1 by a wide margin in both Internet search and online advertising. 
 Mr. Ballmer met several times in late 2006 and early 2007 with Terry S. Semel, then Yahoo's chief executive, people involved in the talks said. After a series of secret meetings between the sides in hotels around California and elsewhere, Yahoo's board decided against progressing with the talks, betting that its stock would turn around, these people said. Mr. Yang, in particular, was adamantly against selling the company, they said. 
 Mr. Ballmer constantly consulted with Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman. Then this week teams of bankers and lawyers holed up in two low-slung podlike buildings on Microsoft's campus plotted how much to bid. After Yahoo reported weaker-than-expected earnings on Tuesday and its stock fell, Microsoft, which had been considering a bid in the mid-$30 range, settled on $31 a share. ''A year has gone by, and the competitive situation has not improved,'' Mr. Ballmer wrote in Thursday's letter to the Yahoo board. Yahoo said Friday that its board would evaluate Microsoft's bid ''carefully and promptly in the context of Yahoo's strategic plans.''
 Analysts say few companies, other than Google, would have the resources to compete with Microsoft's bid. On Friday, Yahoo's bankers -- Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers -- were canvassing behind the scenes for other suitors, putting out feelers to the likes of News Corporation, AT&T and others.
 And Google is not likely to enter the fray because of probable antitrust objections. A Google spokesman said Friday that it would be ''premature to comment.'' 
 The proposed merger, if accepted by Yahoo's board, could bring renewed antitrust scrutiny of Microsoft, which spent years in court battling the Justice Department. 
 Even if it is ultimately approved, the deal could face lengthy delays. It took the Federal Trade Commission nearly nine months to clear Google's far smaller proposed buyout of the advertising specialist DoubleClick. That deal, announced in April, remains under review in Europe. 
 ''This is an order of magnitude larger and will require much more scrutiny and data,'' said Carl W. Tobias, the Williams professor at the University of Richmond School of Law, in Virginia. Professor Tobias said, ''Obviously Google will try to weigh in and try to persuade regulators that it does raise serious questions.'' 
 A Microsoft-Yahoo merger would give Web publishers and online advertisers ''a more competitive and compelling No. 2'' to Google, thus enhancing competition and consumer welfare, said Bradford L. Smith, Microsoft's general counsel.
 The combination of Yahoo and Microsoft would create a more powerful counterweight to Google. Yahoo's audience, already the largest on the Internet, would be bolstered by the tens of millions of users of Microsoft's services, creating a much larger online display advertising business. In Internet search, the market share of the two companies would rise to 31 percent of the American market, according to comScore. That would still be far below Google's 58 percent share, but would help the companies attract more advertisers and higher prices for ads. 
 Microsoft executives said the merger would provide it with more engineering talent and technology infrastructure, and would result in annual savings of $1 billion. 
 The combination will also bring Microsoft relationships with a long list of publishers and advertisers, bolstering the company's quest to become a leading seller of ads not only on its site, but on sites across the Web. 
 Microsoft, which paid $6 billion last year for the online advertising specialist aQuantive, already sells ads on popular sites like Facebook and Digg, as Yahoo does on eBay, Comcast and the sites of hundreds of newspapers. Google, for its part, beat out Microsoft for deals with MySpace, AOL and others. The challenge of integrating the two companies could well become one of the most complex undertakings in Microsoft's history. ''In the world of mergers and acquisitions, this is as tough as it gets,'' Mr. Yoffie added.
 In an interview, Mr. Ballmer acknowledged that a merger review and the integration of the two companies would take time, but he said that Microsoft would keep forging ahead in the meantime.
 ''We'll keep the pedal to the metal,'' he said. ''I assume Yahoo will keep the pedal to the metal.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''Trying to Keep Up'' Microsoft hopes that buying Yahoo will help it compete better with Google, which has outpaced them both. (Source: eMarketer)(pg. A1) ''Competing With Google'' Ad revenue at both Yahoo and Microsoft have been growing, Google has outpaced them both. The news of Microsoft's bid sent Yahoo's stock price soaring on Friday. (Sources: Bloomberg
 eMarketer)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); MERGERS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (90%); DAVID FILO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



47 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Alcoa and Chinese Rival Buy 12% Stake in Rio Tinto

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and JULIA WERDIGIER; David Barboza reported from Shanghai and Julia Werdigier from London. David Lague contributed reporting from Beijing.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
The state-owned giant Aluminum Corporation of China and the Aluminum Corporation of America stunned analysts and investors Friday by buying a minority stake in Rio Tinto, the world's third largest mining company. 
 The stealth move was months in the making, but executed in one day, as the Chinese company moved to buy up shares of Rio Tinto, underscoring two fundamental realities: the strategic significance of mining in a resource-stretched age and China's formidable and still largely untapped economic might.
 The $14 billion bid by Aluminum Corporation of China, or Chinalco, and Aluminum Corporation of America, Alcoa, to acquire 12 percent of Rio Tinto's London shares set the stage for a fierce battle for control of the company. 
 It came just days before BHP Billiton, the biggest mining company in the world, was expected to formally offer its own bid to buy all of Rio Tinto for about $130 billion. The deal announced Friday was also by far the largest overseas investment ever made by a Chinese company and the strongest indication yet that state-controlled companies here intend to be global players and to protect China's strategic interest. China is the world's largest producer of steel and needs iron ore, which is used in making steel. 
 Though Chinalco has a history of making overseas acquisitions, the move seemed largely intended to block a BHP acquisition of Rio, analysts say.
 ''The Chinese are probably the best capitalists that communism will ever have given birth to,'' said Michelle Applebaum, head of an independent steel equity research firm in Chicago. 
 ''The J.V. with Alcoa was a key strategic move, in our view,'' she said, referring to the joint venture and noting Alcoa's reputation as ''one of the world's most responsible conservators of capital'' and the political pull of its former chairman, former Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill. 
 China knows the power of politics. Three years ago, the state-owned Chinese oil giant CNOOC sought but failed to acquire the Unocal Corporation, the American oil company, for about $20 billion, after opposition arose in the United States 
 Now, China appears to be making another bold play to capture the natural resources it needs to fuel its fast-growing economy. In recent years, it has made aggressive forays into other parts of the world, including Africa, seeking to acquire oil and other increasingly scarce natural resources at a time when commodity prices are soaring.
 Last year, China's state-controlled sovereign wealth fund -- another increasingly visible and controversial measure of the new wealth of the nation -- invested in the private equity firm Blackstone. Later, it paid about $5 billion to buy a small stake in Morgan Stanley.
 The Rio bid, however, appears to be largely defensive. Analysts say Beijing officials are worried that if BHP and Rio merge, the new entity, which would control 60 percent of iron ore production, would be able to dictate the prices of commodities vital to China's growth.
 A merger of BHP and Rio Tinto would be one of the largest in history, creating a global mining giant with a market value close to $350 billion.
 BHP executives argue that a merger with Rio Tinto would allow the two companies to expand output more rapidly and reduce costs for major customers while reaping fatter profits.
 Chinalco and Alcoa said they had formed a special corporation based in Singapore called Shining Prospect to acquire the Rio stock Friday.
 Most of the $14 billion came from Chinalco, which is ultimately controlled by the government in Beijing. Alcoa, which is based in Pittsburgh, contributed only about $1.2 billion to purchase the Rio stake.
 But many analysts said the Chinese are unlikely to risk exciting a political or economic reaction by taking over Rio completely. 
 ''The Chinese metals ministry has positioned itself to ultimately create a long position -- but not a control position -- upstream in many of its metals markets that has eluded the nation to date,'' Ms. Applebaum said. ''We believe that the Chinese recognize that control will likely be elusive -- if not impossible -- and that ownership of its raw material resources is key to the future.'' 
 Shares of most of the companies involved rose Friday in trading in New York, London, Sydney and Shanghai. Shares of Rio soared 13 percent in London.
 Chinalco and Alcoa said they did not intend to make a bid for all of Rio Tinto, which also has large aluminum holdings, in the coming months, but that if another suitor came along, other than BHP Billiton, they might join such a bid.
 The statement, analysts say, was a hint that the two could team up with other companies or entities, possibly from China, to bid for all of Rio and wage a tough takeover battle with BHP, driving up the price of Rio shares.
 Chinalco, which is based in Beijing, issued a statement Friday evening, saying: ''Our acquisition of a significant strategic stake in Rio Tinto Friday reflects our confidence in the long-term prospects for the rapidly evolving global mining sector.'' 
 An Alcoa spokesman was also circumspect. ''''As of now, our intention is to make this investment and that is it,'' the spokesman, Kevin Lowery, said. 
 A Rio Tinto spokeswoman in London, Faeth Birch at Finsbury, a public relations firm, said, ''This reinforces our position that BHP's proposal undervalues Rio Tinto.''
 BHP declined to comment Friday. 
 That a Chinese company would move so decisively into the center of a takeover attempt by BHP is not surprising.
 Last November and December, when BHP officials were traveling in China to talk to Chinese government officials about what impact a merger with Rio might have on Chinese purchases of iron ore, the state-controlled press was filled with rumors about a Chinese government-backed bid for Rio, possibly from the state-owned steel maker Baosteel, one of the country's biggest consumers of iron ore.
 But Baosteel executives later disputed the reports, and analysts said it would be difficult for any Chinese company to bid for a company whose value could climb to well over $160 billion in a takeover battle.
 Few companies in the world have that kind of cash or stock value, and any Chinese company making a bid would be heavily scrutinized by investors and government authorities in London and Australia, where Rio has many of its operations, partly because of suspicions that the Chinese government could be behind the deal.
 Now, however, executives involved in the takeover deal have no doubt that the Chinese government is prepared to play a role in the outcome of the Rio takeover battle. 
 Neither Chinalco nor Alcoa have the cash or stock to make a $150 billion bid, analysts say. Shares of Alcoa are worth about $30 billion and Chinalco shares in China are worth about $50 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Xiao Yaqing, president of Chinalco, with Alain Belda, chairman and chief executive of Alcoa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WINSLET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (92%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); JOINT VENTURES (63%)

COMPANY: ALUMINUM CORP OF CHINA LTD (97%); ALCOA INC (96%); RIO TINTO GROUP (92%); BHP BILLITON PLC (85%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

TICKER: K3HD (SGX) (97%); ACH (NYSE) (97%); 2600 (HKSE) (97%); AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%); RIOS (BRU) (92%); RIO (NYSE) (92%); RIO (LSE) (92%); RIO (ASX) (92%); BLT (LSE) (85%); BIBLT (JSE) (85%); BBL (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (97%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (97%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (85%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (85%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: ALAIN J P BELDA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



48 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: South Korean Court Finds Fund and Executive Guilty

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
A court here on Friday found the private equity fund Lone Star and one of its executives guilty of manipulating stock prices, dealing a blow to Lone Star in its closely watched legal battle.
 Paul Yoo, head of Lone Star's South Korean operations, was sentenced to five years and taken directly to prison from the courtroom.
 Foreign investors have closely followed the case for its possible effect on Lone Star's plan to sell its majority stake in the Korea Exchange Bank, one of the country's largest lenders, to HSBC Holdings, which has agreed to pay $6.3 billion. 
 The verdict, if upheld, will undermine Lone Star's repeated arguments that it was victimized by politically motivated prosecutors who are capitalizing on widespread public sentiment against foreign investors. As the tug of war persisted, some foreign investors have come to Lone Star's defense, depicting the battle as a test of South Korea's willingness to deal with them.
 ''Their activity constituted a grave fraud activity and severely damaged the interest of minority shareholders,'' Lee Kyung-choon, a judge at the Seoul Central District Court, said in his ruling.
 Judge Lee also ordered Korea Exchange Bank and LSF-KEB Holdings, a Belgium-based unit that holds Lone Star's stake in the Korean bank, to pay fines of 25 billion won ($26.5 million) each.
 Lone Star, which is based in Texas, bought Korea Exchange Bank for $1.2 billion in 2003 as the country was trying to rescue its distressed banks in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998. Soon afterward, the bank absorbed KEB Credit Service, the bank's credit card unit.
 Prosecutors, who denied that they were politically motivated, sought a 10-year prison sentence for Mr. Yoo on charges that he drove down the share price of the card unit by spreading a rumor that a capital reduction was imminent, thus, allowing the bank to absorb it at below-market prices.
 ''Lone Star is very disappointed in the court's ruling,'' Lone Star's chairman, John Grayken, said in a statement. ''Lone Star maintains that there is simply no credible evidence to support the court's findings. Lone Star will appeal this decision and is confident that it will be reversed.''
 The verdict was the first in a long-running legal battle. In a separate lawsuit, Lone Star is fighting accusations that it conspired with the South Korean government and Korea Exchange officials to understate the financial health of the bank so that it could buy it cheaply. Lone Star denies it.
 Lone Star's legal battles, as well as tax disputes with the local authorities, have fueled public doubts about the role of foreign investors. The litigation has also prevented the company from selling Korea Exchange and exiting South Korea with a large profit.
 In 2006, Mr. Grayken acknowledged that Steven Lee, the buyout firm's former South Korea country manager, had embezzled ''millions of dollars,'' causing the firm to breach tax rules. He apologized and offered to donate 100 billion won ''as a gesture of good will'' to South Koreans.
 On Friday, Hong Young-man, spokesman for the government's Financial Supervisory Commission, said his agency would not approve Lone Star's plan to sell Korea Exchange until all legal battles were resolved.
 Lone Star or HSBC can terminate their agreement if the deal is not completed by April 30. Gareth Hewett, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for HSBC, said the bank had no comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jang Yong-kuk, a lawyer for Paul Yoo, head of Lone Star's South Korean operations. Mr. Yoo was sentenced to five years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JO YONG-HAK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SENTENCING (89%); VERDICTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); APPEALS (60%)

COMPANY: KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (94%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (57%)

TICKER: 004940 (KSE) (94%); HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 0005 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) TEXAS, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



49 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSEUM REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Where the Capitalism Is (Always on Display)

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
A few years ago, when irrational exuberance reigned, opening a handsome museum devoted to the history and celebration of money just a block from the New York Stock Exchange might have seemed somewhat vulgar. In times of enthusiasm and plenty, celebration is superfluous. Why devote reverential attention to something when its powers are so omnipresent that they provide daily fodder for gossip? 
 Now, of course, it's a different story. At a time of uncertainty -- as the market quavers, the dollar sinks, sub-prime lenders go belly up, and the Federal Reserve Bank rapidly twists its dials -- money becomes more puzzling and more unpredictable, demanding closer scrutiny. 
 So while opening the Museum of American Finance on Wall Street last month might at first have seemed like bad timing -- like buying a stock at its top, or selling at its bottom -- there was actually no better moment to mount this tribute to the ''forces that have made New York City the financial capital of the world'' (as one of the museum's displays puts it). And if our city's status and the currency that backs it are more contested than they once were, that only makes the enterprise more urgently intriguing. 
 In fact, the museum was founded just after the 1987 market crash, because John Herzog, chairman of a trading firm that has since become part of Merrill Lynch, said he felt that there was no ''institutional memory'' on Wall Street. Moments of crisis require that expanded perspective, and, as the museum's founding shows, they also inspire it. 
 Once housed in a much smaller space at the United States Customs House (where it also had the more ponderous title of Museum of American Financial History), the institution has now come into its own, leasing 30,000 square feet of the former Bank of New York building. And since the nearby New York Stock Exchange has been closed to the public since Sept. 11, this museum may also become a de facto visitors' center. 
 After $9 million in costs (and with a $3 million annual budget), the museum, an affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution, now has a library and an auditorium, along with 10,000 square feet of exhibition space on what was once the imposing ''private banking'' mezzanine. It is a magisterial space, its grand murals celebrating American industrial achievements -- powered, presumably, by the investments of many who once banked here. 
 Unfortunately, the bank was completed just before the 1929 market crash, which must have left many clients in straitened circumstances. But this museum is not shy about such vagaries in financial fortune. It sees its mission as both celebratory -- paying tribute to the ''American democratic open market system'' -- and educational, depicting just how that system evolved and the ways it works and sometimes falters. 
 So little is taught about this subject in the public schools, and so much still needs to be learned by those who have not quite figured out the nature of derivatives and other financial instruments, that the museum is both welcome in what it attempts and disappointing in how it falls short. In some cases it is too obvious (a wall display of the objects lying behind the trade of pork belly and grain futures doesn't add much); in other cases too compressed (being taught about the nature of bonds is one thing, understanding junk bonds is something else). 
 There are other problems as well. We wait to see how all of this will congeal into a clear understanding of the ways American markets differ from others, or why capitalism, in this particular form, has become so immensely successful. There might also have been more exploration of the debates that have raged over the last 150 years. Winston Churchill's quotation is left to speak for itself without commentary: ''The inherent vice of capitalism is the unequal sharing of blessings; the inherent virtue of socialism is the equal sharing of miseries.'' 
 What is needed is a better strategy for teaching something about the economic system -- perhaps interactive displays outlining the way a market actually works. Instead too much space is devoted to freestanding touch-screen monitors offering extensive interviews with 16 entrepreneurs, including Robin Chase (Zipcar) and David G. Neeleman (JetBlue); many of these figures are far less interesting than what they accomplished. And there is such a thing as too much tribute: Citigroup gets an unnecessary, promotional display of objects and video, while a more detailed case history, demonstrating a single corporation's successes and failures, risks and ventures, would be far more revealing. 
 So I hoped for more. The frustration is that this is not just a good story; it is a great story, an epic, and here it can be glimpsed only piecemeal. But there are so many fragments here, and so many compelling ones, that the individual parts actually end up greater than their sum. Unusual items from the museum's 10,000-object collection range from early adding machines to the ticker tape detailing the plummeting prices of the 1929 crash; from a 1720 South Sea Company stock certificate signed by Isaac Newton, who lost his investment in a speculative ''bubble'' of the 18th century, to a check signed by John D. Rockefeller. 
 Some of the displays, designed by C&G Partners (which created the deft exhibits at the redesigned Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles), tell their story with humor, using touch screens to give the history of bank robbery, or showing a clip from ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' so that Jimmy Stewart can explain the virtues of a ''savings and loan.'' A small room devoted to the history of American money could have been twice as large and was easily the most coherent in the museum, aided by nearly $6 million in rare coins and bills and a 60-pound ingot from the California Gold Rush, found in a shipwreck. The armed guard outside that room served as a reminder of what this exhibition space once was.
 Such sensations make the museum far less staid than it appears. What is shown again and again, in the charts and anecdotes, is how difficult a partner fortune can be (though Fortune -- the magazine -- exhibited in a display of some classic issues from the 1930s and '40s, was clearly both lovely and powerful). The wheel of fortune is an ancient concept, and it can be seen revolving here, not just in the history of the room itself, but in tumultuous stories condensed into labels and objects. The distinctively American twist is the idea that the wheel can be manually turned -- and that anybody can spin it, even though some results may be unexpected. 
 A board game from 1886 is like a do-it-yourself Horatio Alger story. ''Game of the District Messenger Boy,'' reads the faded box, ''or Merit Rewarded.'' Figures looking like racing Wall Street messengers move around the board as instructed by a spinning wheel: ''Advance to District Manager,'' reads one square; ''Drowsiness, go back to Reprimand,'' reads another. 
 Elsewhere we read of the ''oracle of Omaha,'' Warren E. Buffett -- the only pupil of the renowned Columbia University economist Benjamin Graham to have ever earned an A+ in his graduate work -- but also of ''Enron's (Mis)Managers'' and of figures like William C. Durant, the founder of General Motors, who went from being a billionaire to (in the wake of the 1929 crash) becoming a dishwasher, running a bowling alley and selling a dandruff cure. Some wealth is created out of risk and labor; but so, too, is some poverty. Freedom has come from capital; so, too, has slavery. A scrap ofpaper becomes a fortune, and a fortune becomes worthless paper.
 One display reminds us that Willie Sutton famously explained that he robbed banks ''because that's where the money is.'' But we come to this former bank to see exactly what money is -- and what America has made of it. That doesn't really happen. But enough is seen so that money starts to seem less like a material object than like something more ethereal, affected by sea winds and psychology, faith and risk. And at this uncertain moment its mysterious powers seem all the more uncanny: it's a perfect time to see it in action. This museum is not a bad place to start.
 The Museum of American Finance is open Tuesdays through Saturdays at 48 Wall Street, Lower Manhattan; (212) 908-4110 or financialhistory.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Museum of American Finance: The museum, affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution, is newly relocated to 48 Wall Street, a block from the New York Stock Exchange.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
Among the museum's collection of financerelated objects are antique games that convey a sense of an industrious, getahead- in-business mentality.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN FINANCE)
Left, a museumgoer uses a touch-screen monitor to see interviews with business leaders
 above, a 60-pound ingot from the time of the California Gold Rush.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (62%); SUBPRIME LENDING (55%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



50 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA2-5
 Two Bomb Attacks Kill Dozens in Baghdad
 Two women strapped with explosives killed dozens of people at Baghdad pet markets, in the kind of carnage that the Iraqi capital hoped it had left behind. A1 
 Ireland's Vanishing Bags 
 The use of disposable plastic shopping bags has dropped 94 percent in Ireland since the country passed a tax in 2002 that charges customers who want to use them. A3 
 Berlusconi's Long Shadow
 Nearly two years after Silvio Berlusconi was voted out of office as Italy's prime minister, his possible return to power is polarizing Italians into nearly equal camps for him and against him. A3
 Stark Choice in Serbian Vote
 A pro-Western incumbent and a staunch nationalist will face off in presidential elections that could determine whether Serbia comes closer to the European Union or moves back into international isolation. A4 
 Attack on Israeli Embassy
 Investigators searched for men who opened fire on the Israeli Embassy in the Mauritanian capital. A4 
 Spreading Banditry in Kenya
 As Kenya's government and the opposition signed a peace plan, the road used in one of the country's most scenic drives swarmed with machete-wielding teenagers demanding money of drivers. A5 
 NATIONALA6-13 
 Romney Strategizes To Remain Afloat
 After devoting two years and more than $35 million of his own money trying to win his party's presidential nomination, Mitt Romney and his advisers are facing the possibility that his bid could end with Tuesday's crush of nominating contests. A13 
 As the Democratic presidential rivals dashed into a final weekend of campaigning before voting in 21 states next week, Barack Obama collected the endorsement of a leading antiwar group and said his opposition to the war would make him a stronger general election candidate. A11 
 Budget Plan Cuts Programs
 More than a dozen popular health, housing and education programs would be eliminated or cut by more than 40 percent under the budget that President Bush plans to announce. A9 
 New Border Rules in Effect
 There were no major delays or disruptions at the bustling border station at El Paso as American citizens were required for the first time to show a passport or other identity documents to return to the country by land. A13 
 A Prosecutor's Admission
 The embattled district attorney in Harris County, Tex., admitted before a federal judge that, in violation of two subpoenas and a court order, he deleted as many as 3,500 e-mail messages sought in a civil rights lawsuit. A9 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA15-16
 College Students Debate Historic Political Contest
 In the bustling halls of Hunter College, political science students -- most of them first-time voters who cannot remember a time when Hillary Clinton was not in the White House or the Senate -- discussed whether this year's presidential contest, featuring a black candidate and a female candidate, could bring a fundamental shift in American political debate.A16 
 Bloomberg '08 Fading
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's presidential bubble may have finally burst, as Senator John McCain is gaining momentum and Mr. Bloomberg's most ardent supporters have endorsed someone else.A16 
 BUSINESS DAYB1-9 
 A Bid for Yahoo
 In a bid that underscores Microsoft's urgency and determination to succeed online, the company made a hostile $44.6 billion offer for Yahoo, the online search engine -- a move largely to coutner Google's online pre-eminence. A1 
 Jobs Lost In January
 Employers eliminated 17,000 jobs in January, the first decline in the work force in more than four years, and the strongest sign that the United States may be in the early stages of a recession. A1 
 Today in BusinessB2 
 EDITORIALA28-29
 Editorials: Secrets and rights; a new chapter in ethnic cleansing; if an election is close ...; Eli Stone's overleap of faith. 
 Columns: Bob Herbert and Gail Collins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); LITIGATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); JUDGES (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); SUBPOENAS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); LAWYERS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); EL PASO, TX, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (52%) ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); KENYA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



51 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses Raise Recession Fears

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Kansas City.

 BODY:
The nation's employers eliminated 17,000 jobs in January, the government reported Friday, the first decline in the work force in more than four years, and the strongest signal yet that the United States may be in the early stages of a recession.
 Politically, the job figures were particularly troubling for the Republican Party and President Bush, who had just this week responded to doubts about the economy by noting in his State of the Union address a 52-month streak of uninterrupted job growth. That streak ended last month.
 The broad weakness in the job market, which affected many sectors, shows how the collapse of the housing bubble is rippling through the rest of the economy and suggests the likelihood of more pain for millions of American families in the months ahead from job losses, lower real wages and fewer working hours.
 Citing the new jobs report, Mr. Bush -- who was in Kansas City, Mo., on the third day of a trip that also took him to California, Nevada and Colorado -- acknowledged that it provided ''some troubling signs'' that the economy was weakening. 
 The four leading presidential candidates -- uniformly referring to a damaged economy -- urged Congress to move quickly on a stimulus package, with the Democrats demanding that the current proposal include an extension of unemployment benefits. 
 ''It is immaterial whether we are in a formal recession,'' said Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, chief economic adviser to John McCain, a leading Republican contender. ''We are growing way too slowly.''
 The unemployment rate, which jumped in December to nearly 5 percent from 4.7 percent, was essentially unchanged, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said, declining to 4.9 percent. 
 Adding to the indications that the fall in payroll jobs in January could portend worse to come, the bureau issued one of its periodic benchmark revisions, based on more complete data. This revision showed much weaker job creation over the past year than initially reported.
 ''They took away on average 16,000 jobs a month,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight. ''It suggests that income was lower than previously thought and consumers are more stressed than we previously thought.''
 There were other signs of a potential recession, which is generally defined as a period extending at least several months in which economic activity shrinks, resulting in fewer jobs, weaker investment and less spending. The employment report came a day after the Commerce Department said that the economy had expanded at a minuscule annual rate of 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter.
 The two reports convinced many on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve, trying to reverse the slide, would continue to cut the benchmark interest rate that it controls, even after the sharp reduction of 1.25 percentage points last month to 3 percent. Some analysts suggested that the federal funds rate could be reduced to 2 percent this year, putting downward pressure as it falls on mortgage and consumer loan rates.
 ''The key story right now is whether fiscal stimulus and the Fed's interest rate cuts can arrest the sliding economy,'' said Ethan Harris, chief domestic economist at Lehman Brothers. ''It's a kind of race against time.'' 
 The economy has displayed a few bright spots lately, including an uptick in consumer confidence and a report Friday that manufacturing activity bounced back unexpectedly in January. Those reports have been overwhelmed by bleaker news elsewhere, however, like a further fall in construction spending. 
 The jobs report only added to the gloom. The long-term unemployed -- those who have been seeking work for at least six months -- represented 18.3 percent of the nation's 7.65 million men and women looking for jobs. That was up from 16.2 percent a year ago, which helps explain why Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, the two Democratic candidates for president, called on Congress to include in its stimulus package an extension of unemployment benefits beyond the present 26 weeks. 
 ''Today's report that the economy actually lost jobs in January confirms my view that we are sliding into a second Bush recession,'' Senator Clinton said in a statement, referring to the 2001 downturn, which ran, according to official accounting, from March 2001 through November. Few economists, however, blame Mr. Bush for a recession that began so early in his term.
 Mr. Bush called on the Senate to quickly reach agreement on a House stimulus plan and get the bill to his desk for signature. ''The fundamentals are strong,'' Mr. Bush said, speaking to workers after touring the headquarters of Hallmark Cards. 
 ''We're just in a rough patch,'' he added. ''I'm confident we can get through this rough patch, and one way to do it is for Congress and the administration to work collaboratively and get this deal done.''
 Employment has been weakening for months. While employers continued to add jobs last year, they did so at an ever slower pace, averaging 95,000 jobs a month. That was down from 175,000 a month in 2006, when the recovery from the 2001 recession was still in full swing.
 ''Taken as a whole, you clearly have a deceleration of the rate of job growth,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs.
 More than half of the nation's industries lost jobs in January, with construction, manufacturing and finance topping the list. The private sector managed to add only 1,000 jobs, in part because of gains in health services and in some upper-end hiring of accountants, lawyers, computer specialists and architects. 
 Government employment pulled the job market into negative territory, contracting by 18,000 jobs, mostly at state universities and community colleges. The decline reflected pressure on state budgets as a weakening economy cuts into tax revenue. 
 The monthly employment reports have served as chapter headings in the tale of a housing slump and credit crisis that gradually spread to other sectors. The December job count, originally reported as an increase of just 18,000 jobs, was the first strong signal that the overall economy was hurting. That number was revised to 82,000 on Friday. On the other hand, job creation in November turned out to be 55,000 less than initially reported. 
 Indeed, job growth in nearly every month last year was less than initially reported, and by December there were 376,000 fewer jobs than the original total, the bureau concluded as a result of its benchmark revision. That revision is based on a once-a-year count of all jobs covered by unemployment insurance. 
 Apart from the shrinking job numbers, inflation-adjusted wages and hours worked also declined.
 ''It is awfully tough,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute, ''to find a silver lining in this latest jobs report.'' 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''The Labor Picture in January'' Graphs and charts demonstrate the troublesome job market. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



52 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: A New Chapter in Ethnic Cleansing

 BODY:
It is far too easy to become inured to bad news from Africa, a continent of great promise and peril. Kenya's rampage of ethnically driven killings that is now five weeks long is especially sickening and attention-grabbing because of how much hope the world had for Kenya's democracy and economic revival -- and how fast the country has descended into madness. 
 More dreams died this week with the murder -- some called it political assassination -- of Melitus Mugabe Were, a 39-year-old opposition parliamentarian who tried to calm the ethnic tensions fueling Kenya's slide into chaos. For many, he was a symbol of the moderation and reconciliation that are Kenya's only hope. On Thursday, a second opposition lawmaker was shot dead. 
 The vicious tribal violence -- condemned by one American official this week as ''ethnic cleansing'' -- has spread with stunning speed since late December when Kenya's electoral commission hastily handed a second term to President Mwai Kibaki, despite independent reports of glaring voting irregularities. The toll is now more than 800 Kenyans dead, 70,000 driven from their homes and thousands more fled to neighboring countries. The economy is paralyzed.
 Instead of trying to calm their supporters and negotiate a political solution, Mr. Kibaki and his principal challenger, Raila Odinga, have called for peace, and then incited more killing, accusing each other of orchestrating the mayhem. For too long, both men have succumbed to their baser ambitions and resisted high-level mediation. 
 Mr. Kibaki should renounce his re-election -- the electoral commission's chairman said he was pressured into an early declaration. Mr. Odinga and he must quickly agree on some reasonable compromise, a rerun of the vote or a power-sharing agreement. Together they have to urgently address constitutional and land reform issues that are at the heart of deep-seated grievances among Kenya's ethnic groups, including Mr. Kibaki's long-dominant Kikuyu group, and Mr. Odinga's smaller, but politically important Luo tribe.
 Sustained and robust international efforts are needed to persuade the Kenyan rivals to do the right thing. We are encouraged that United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon decided to personally intervene and that his chief mediator, Kofi Annan, the former secretary general, was able to announce on Friday an agreement on a framework for talks that could resolve the crisis. Major countries, including the United States, which provides Kenya with more than $600 million in aid per year, need to bring a lot more pressure on both Mr. Kibaki and Mr. Odinga to ensure that that happens. If reason can't persuade them to reconcile, then sanctions and a suspension of nonhumanitarian assistance must be seriously considered. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (87%); MURDER (77%); POLITICS (75%); ETHNICITY (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ASSASSINATION (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%)

PERSON: MWAI KIBAKI (79%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



53 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Reasons Vary, but McCain and Romney Compete for the Same Prize

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and MICHAEL LUO; Michael Luo reported from Denver.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain and Mitt Romney waged a long-distance war on Friday over who was the real Republican as Mr. McCain released his first national television commercial, ''True Conservative,'' and Mr. Romney's campaign attacked him for his ''straight talk detour'' into the favorite causes of the Democratic Party.
 With only four days before a virtual national primary on Tuesday, Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney, the main Republican contenders, had different but urgent reasons for wooing conservatives. 
 For Mr. Romney, trailing Mr. McCain in national polls despite spending tens of millions of dollars of his own money on the race, his appeal to conservatives represents perhaps a last-ditch attempt to salvage his candidacy. 
 For Mr. McCain, who is rapidly making the transition from maverick Republican to front-runner, winning over at least some of the conservatives who distrust him would help him unite his party for the fight against Democrats in November.
 ''I know I've got a lot of work to do,'' Mr. McCain told reporters on Friday, when he said he was not a regular member of the radio audience of Rush Limbaugh, one of his most vocal critics on the right.
 ''I don't listen to him,'' Mr. McCain said on his plane as he flew from an airport rally in St. Louis to one in Chicago. ''There's a certain trace of masochism in my family, but not that deep.''
 Still, in an attempt to assure the right that there is safety in numbers, Mr. McCain's campaign announced endorsements almost hourly on Friday from well-known conservatives. Among them were Theodore B. Olson, the former solicitor general who supported the Bush administration's agenda on legal and regulatory issues before the Supreme Court, and Steve Forbes, a son of the Forbes magazine founder Malcolm Forbes and a former presidential candidate. On Thursday, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas endorsed Mr. McCain.
 Mr. McCain, of Arizona, who has been wooing former Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a moderate, said Friday that he also anticipated a major endorsement in that state.
 ''In a multiperson race with people running to your right, you're not going to get all the conservative voters,'' said Charles Black, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. ''But you'll get enough to win.''
 Mr. Romney was endorsed Friday by Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania. He also has the support of the conservative commentator Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity, the conservative talk show host.
 Mr. McCain's television commercial, which began showing Friday on cable channels across the country, depicts him as a prisoner of war in Vietnam and then in a meeting with President Ronald Reagan, the Republican standard-bearer worshiped by conservatives. ''As a prisoner of war, John McCain was inspired by Ronald Reagan,'' an announcer intones, and then calls Mr. McCain ''a proud social conservative who will never waiver.''
 Mr. Romney's campaign in turn released a series of blistering e-mail messages to reporters attacking Mr. McCain as a virtual Democrat. Mr. McCain was ''pushing the Democrat position on immigration, taxes, energy,'' one of them said. 
 Mr. Romney, who campaigned before an overflow crowd at a car dealership in Denver, criticized Mr. McCain as knowing little about the economy, and later said that Mr. McCain, although ''a man of great character,'' had taken positions on key Republican issues that ''are not in line with the mainstream of our party.''
 Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain also got into a brief stand-off over Mr. McCain's decision not to debate Mr. Romney on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday. Mr. Romney complained of the decision this week.
 ''We've done 16 debates with Romney, and we're tired of them,'' Mr. Black said Friday.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Senator John McCain and Mitt Romney waging a war of words over who is the real Republican misidentified the founder of Forbes magazine. It was B.C. Forbes, not his son Malcolm Forbes. (Malcolm's son Steve endorsed Mr. McCain on Friday.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (59%); RICK PERRY (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



54 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Fund Data Show Rivals In G.O.P. Almost Tied

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Senator John McCain and Mitt Romney each ended 2007 with more than $2 million in cash on hand, $2.9 million for Mr. McCain and $2.4 million for Mr. Romney. But the candidates took entirely different routes to reach almost the same point. 
 An examination of newly filed campaign finance reports shows that Mr. McCain, of Arizona, recovered from a near-death campaign experience last summer to modest financial stability by taking out bank loans and curtailing his free spending. By Dec. 31, he had spent less than half of what Mr. Romney, his chief rival, had spent. 
 Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, used his personal net worth of an estimated $250 million to lend his campaign $35 million, with $18 million of that in the third quarter. His campaign had spent so freely that without that infusion he would have reached the same near bankruptcy that Mr. McCain reached in the summer. 
 As it is, the Romney campaign is $35 million in debt, but the debt is to Mr. Romney, who is not required to pay it off. 
 ''Comparing McCain finances is like comparing a Rolls-Royce and a Toyota,'' said Massie Ritsch, a spokesman for the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that analyzes campaign finances. ''The Rolls might be flashier, but the Toyota still gets you where you want to go.'' 
 Mr. Romney, a graduate of the Harvard Business School and the founder of Bain Capital, a private equity firm, has been making his business skills a campaign centerpiece. He has spent $87 million on his presidential effort; some $29 million was spent on advertising. 
 About $34 million was spent in the last three months of 2007, almost as much as Mr. McCain spent for the entire year, $39 million. In the fourth quarter, Mr. McCain raised $6 million and spent $10 million.
 At the same time, Mr. Romney's standing in the polls dropped while Mr. McCain's rose. Although the two have split primary victories, Mr. McCain has more convention delegates after victories in South Carolina and Florida.
 Mr. McCain's campaign, too, has borrowed money, in his case from a bank in November. After closing offices and firing staff members, as well as running an extremely modest advertising campaign, Mr. McCain still drew down $3 million on a short-term $4 million line of credit with an 8.5 percent interest rate. 
 At Dec. 31, Mr. McCain was $1.5 million in debt. But his success in campaigning led to $7 million in fresh contributions in the first three weeks of 2008. 
 On the Republican side, the candidate who has recorded the greatest amount of money with the least success in the primaries is Representative Ron Paul of Texas. Mr. Paul has $7.8 million in cash, more than Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney combined. 
 Mr. Paul also took in $20 million in the third quarter of 2007, again more than Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney combined. For all of 2007, Mr. Paul raised $28 million and spent $20 million, increasing his spending to $17 million in the last three months of 2007. 
 This year, Mr. Paul's supporters have donated $4.7 million in a fund-raising drive set up to honor his 51st wedding anniversary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (61%); GOVERNORS (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); DISMISSALS (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); RON PAUL (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



55 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Closing Income Gap Tops Obama's Agenda for Economic Change

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: WICHITA, Kan. 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama says the top priority of the next president should be to create a more lasting and equitable prosperity than achieved by either President Bush in the current decade or even Bill Clinton in the 1990s.
 In an hourlong interview outlining his economic views, Mr. Obama praised the Clinton administration for reducing the deficit and setting the stage for the '90s boom. But he said Mr. Clinton had failed to halt a long-term increase in income inequality that had left the middle class feeling squeezed.
 If elected, Mr. Obama said he would to try to forge a popular mandate for policy changes that could reverse a generation of slow wage growth and outlast any one administration. At the top of his list would be shifting the tax burden more toward the wealthy and making investments -- in health care, alternative-energy research and education -- that would cost a significant amount of money but could ultimately lift economic growth. 
 ''The project of the next president is figuring out how do you create bottom-up economic growth, as opposed to the trickle-down economic growth that George Bush has been so enamored with,'' Mr. Obama, an Illinois Democrat, said. 
 Mr. Obama's agenda would be complicated by the government's projected budget deficit, which is primarily a result of soaring Medicare and other health care costs expected in coming decades. No candidate, in either party, has yet offered a detailed plan for bringing those costs under control, health care experts say.
 Speaking on a flight to Kansas from Washington this week, Mr. Obama predicted that the economy would continue to worsen in coming months. In particular, he said he expected some of the recent problems in the mortgage market to spread to other parts of the consumer-credit business, as households struggled to pay bills.
 ''I don't think we've bottomed out yet,'' he said.
 Although Mr. Obama's economic approach comes wrapped in his conciliatory rhetoric, it is in some ways more aggressive than that of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, his rival for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
 He has called for shoring up Social Security by raising payroll taxes on very high earners, while she has not. He also favors a permanent tax credit of up to $1,000 for families in the bottom 90 percent or so of the income distribution, which makes his package of middle-class tax credits significantly larger than hers. 
 Clinton advisers say Mr. Obama has been unrealistic about paying for his tax cuts and would end up forfeiting the Democrats' hard-won reputation for fiscal discipline. Obama aides say he would fully pay for his proposals by, among other things, cracking down on overseas tax havens and corporate tax loopholes. 
 Either way, the Obama program clearly emphasizes help for the middle class -- through tax cuts and new programs -- more than deficit reduction. His approach puts him somewhat to the left of the Clinton administration but broadly in line with the Democratic Party now.
 Indeed, Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton hold similar or identical positions on a host of economic issues, and Democratic economists not aligned with either campaign often speak positively about both.
 They each favor subsidies for families without health insurance (though Mrs. Clinton would mandate that everyone has insurance, while Mr. Obama would not). Both have also called for more government regulation of business, somewhat tighter restrictions on foreign trade and more investment in health care infrastructure, alternative-energy research and other basic science. 
 But the two candidates offer strikingly different strategies for achieving their economic agendas. Mrs. Clinton -- drawing on her husband's first year in the White House, when Congress passed a deficit-reduction package without a single Republican vote -- said Democrats needed to be prepared to fight similar battles in the years ahead.
 ''We've got to be really clear that this is a struggle, and this is just not a moment where everybody will see the world the way it should be seen and come together to solve these problems,'' she said in a recent interview. ''There are powerful forces at work in our society.''
 Mr. Obama also talks about overcoming special interests, but he proposes to do so by changing the terms of the debate, energizing disaffected voters and forging a new majority in favor of his programs. He called climate change ''a perfect example,'' because he would try to persuade Americans to accept some short-term sacrifice while explaining that their energy costs did not have to increase nearly as much as utilities would suggest. 
 But he would start, he said, by trying to turn the discussion about taxes into an advantage for the Democrats during the general election campaign this year.
 ''We have to disaggregate tax policy between the wealthy and the working class or middle class,'' he said. ''We have to be able to say that we are going to at once raise taxes on some people and lower taxes on others.''
 He added: ''This has been one of the greatest rhetorical sleights of hand of the Republican Party, and it has been a great weakness of the Democratic Party.''
 The leading Republican candidates have called for the extension of Mr. Bush's income tax cuts, saying that their scheduled expiration by the end of 2010 would damage the economy. 
 Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton would extend only the tax cuts for families making less than $250,000 and then use the revenue from the higher taxes on the affluent to help pay for other programs. The Democrats note that high-income workers have received far larger pay increases than others over the past generation and have also had their tax rates cut by a much greater amount.
 More so than any other candidate this year, Mr. Obama has surrounded his campaign's policy team with professional economists (most of them, like him, still shy of their 50th birthdays), as opposed to former White House officials or Congress members. 
 Several Obama proposals have their roots in an academic field known as behavioral economics, which points out how often people can be tripped up by complex bureaucracies. Mr. Obama sometimes talks about an ''iPod government'' that can achieve its aims by presenting choices more simply. Under one proposal, Medicare would be required to present its prescription drug plans more clearly, to cut down on the number of people who sign up for a more expensive one than they need.
 His interest in ''ease, convenience and usability,'' he said, came from two sources -- his years as a community organizer in Chicago, where he often saw people struggle to understand the choices they had, and his own experience trying to make sense of his 401(k) plan. 
 Mr. Obama's father was also an economist, from Kenya, who received his Ph.D. at Harvard. And Mr. Obama's first job out of college was at a trade publication for multinational businesses, where he was a financial writer.
 At times, he can sound like an economic analyst, weaving stories that link seemingly disparate topics. The weak income growth of the last generation, he said, caused many families to dip into their home equity, which led to the crisis in the mortgage market. That crisis, in turn, hurt the balance sheets of American financial firms and forced them to seek cash infusions from overseas governments, which has raised some national-security concerns.
 ''I don't think anybody knew exactly how that would get us in trouble,'' he said, referring to the increase in consumer debt over the last two decades. ''But it was predictable that it would get us in trouble.''
 This period includes the late 1990s, when wages rose significantly for workers up and down the income spectrum.
 In the interview, Mr. Obama said Mr. Clinton and Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, took courageous steps in the early '90s to lower the deficit and help make the record-long expansion that ran from 1991 to early 2001 possible. 
 He added that ''some of the attacks on the Clinton administration from the left,'' accusing it of operating as a group of corporate Democrats, had been unfair.
 ''They had an economic theory that in part was right -- I do think fiscal discipline is important,'' Mr. Obama said. ''What he wasn't able to do was address the emerging structural imbalance in our economy -- partly due to globalization, partly due to technology and automation -- where increasingly the benefits of economic growth were accruing to a smaller band of people.''
 Mr. Obama said he would push for more investment in emerging industries, education and worker training -- ideas that Mr. Clinton campaigned on in 1992 but mostly backed away from as president to repair the fiscal imbalance.
 Mrs. Clinton also favors many of these ideas, in a sign that the Democratic Party has reached something of a consensus on its main economic policy goals. Indeed, Mr. Obama suggested that his cabinet would include a good number of Clinton administration alumni.
 ''I want an Alan Blinder, and I want a Jacob Hacker, and I want a Bob Rubin, and I want a Robert Reich,'' he said, referring to a mix of centrist and more liberal Democratic economic advisers. ''And I want a good robust argument about where we need to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama, speaking on Friday to the overflow crowd outside the Albuquerque Economic Summit at the Albuquerque Convention Center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); MEDICARE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); TAX INCREASES (68%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (68%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); ENERGY RESEARCH (53%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (74%); WICHITA, KS, USA (68%) KANSAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



56 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Romney Mapping a Strategy to Carry Him Into the Convention

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
After devoting two years and more than $35 million of his money trying to win his party's nomination for the presidency, Mitt Romney and his advisers face the possibility that his effort could end with the nominating contests on Tuesday. 
 Senator John McCain of Arizona has won a series of major primaries and landed big-name endorsements as he seeks to present himself as the Republican Party's putative nominee. 
 Operating in survival mode, Mr. Romney's circle of advisers has come up with a detailed road map to try to salvage his campaign. The plan is complete with a new infusion of cash from Mr. Romney, a long-term strategy intended to turn the campaign into a protracted delegate fight and a reframing of the race as a one-on-one battle for the future of the party that seeks to sound the alarm among conservatives about Mr. McCain.
 The advisers have drawn up a list of states, dividing and ranking them into those considered relatively easy and inexpensive targets, along with a broader grouping of more costly battlegrounds where the advisers hope that Mr. Romney can be competitive. 
 Some states like Arizona and Arkansas, the home states of Mr. McCain and Mike Huckabee, respectively, are largely written off.
 The question is whether the planning, along with the campaign's one trump card, the candidate's vast wealth, can overcome the growing sense of inevitability that has begun to attach itself to Mr. McCain.
 Complicating the outlook, Mr. Romney's campaign has been racked by infighting over advertising strategy between some senior advisers, including some consultants who joined the campaign after leaving Mr. McCain's.
 Polls in many major primary states on Tuesday, including California, the linchpin of Mr. Romney's strategy, where he is spending $1.7 million on advertising, according to a rival campaign, show Mr. McCain with a comfortable lead. He also appears to hold significant edges in New York and New Jersey, winner-take-all states where many former backers of Rudolph W. Giuliani have joined the McCain camp. 
 The endorsement by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California boosts Mr. McCain there, and the national news media buzz contributes to the air of a coronation.
 ''I don't think anyone should write Mitt Romney's obituary yet,'' said Todd Harris, a political consultant who worked on Fred D. Thompson's campaign. ''He can be a compelling candidate with a ton of money. But at some point if he's not winning, the entire rationale for his campaign becomes that he is a well-funded candidate who's not John McCain, and that's not enough.''
 Another unforeseen complication is the funeral on Saturday of Gordon B. Hinckley, president and prophet of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in Salt Lake City. The funeral, taking Mr. Romney off the trail on the most important weekend of campaigning so far, will draw attention once again to Mr. Romney's Mormon faith.
 His advisers point to some signs of hope in an election cycle in which conventional wisdom has often been turned upside down. They say they are starting to see a groundswell of opposition to Mr. McCain among conservative leaders, as well as at the grass roots, especially on talk radio.
 The day after Mr. Romney's loss to Mr. McCain in Florida, his aides said, the campaign set a record for one-day online contributions, almost $400,000. 
 Mr. Romney's advisers are also convinced that their mantra on the economy and bringing change to Washington and the economy remains compelling.
 The campaign's director of strategy, Alex Gage, sent a memorandum to supporters on Thursday that highlighted exit poll data from the previous nominating contests, saying just a few percentage points of support to Mr. Romney from conservatives would swing the nomination to him.
 Besides California, the campaign has also bought airtime for commercials in other states as part of a ''significant'' buy, advisers said, although they declined to say where. A rival campaign also reported that Mr. Romney has bought nearly $350,000 in advertising time to run nationally on the Fox News Channel.
 Alex Castellanos, a media strategist for Mr. Romney, said regardless of the delegate count, the winner in California would have the momentum to move on.
 ''California's the one to watch,'' Mr. Castellanos said. 
 Rob Stutzman, a senior adviser for the California campaign, said the Republican electorate there was traditionally quite conservative. Mr. Stutzman predicted that Mr. McCain would run into problems because of his moderate stance on illegal immigration. 
 ''The immigration vulnerability is amplified in California for McCain,'' he said.
 The Romney campaign has had four paid staff members in California since last summer and has been making calls throughout the state since the beginning of January, when absentee voting began.
 The field operations are focused on Congressional districts where it believes that organization can have productive effects. The state is set up so that each district is worth the same number of delegates, no matter how many Republicans are in it. A small organizing effort could swing a district. 
 The Romney campaign is banking on winning Utah, with its heavy concentration of Mormons. 
 Beyond that, the campaign is also focused on picking off the handful of states holding caucuses or state conventions on Tuesday. The campaign says some minimal organization -- it has had at least one paid worker in almost every Feb. 5 state since the fall -- and spending can produce results. The states include Colorado, Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota and West Virginia.
 Adding Alaska, where Mr. Romney's son Josh has been dispatched, more than 250 delegates are at stake in this first group of states out of the more than 1,000 delegates up for grabs on Tuesday. 
 The campaign has then drawn up a broader list of battlegrounds where it believes it can be competitive, including Georgia, Illinois, Missouri and Tennessee. Advertising will most likely be focused on those primary states.
 The most serious obstacle in many places is Mr. Huckabee, who continues to pull social conservative voters from Mr. Romney.
 ''The more the Romney strategy hinges on picking up red states, the bigger a factor Mike Huckabee is going to be,'' Mr. Harris said.
 In the face of difficult odds, Mr. Romney's advisers said, he had been the individual raising their morale whenever it sagged. After his weary advisers dozed on the flight from Florida to California on Wednesday, Mr. Romney gathered them at the front of the plane.
 Trying to lighten the mood, he turned to Cindy Gillespie, a senior adviser who worked with him in rescuing the scandal-ridden 2002 Winter Olympic Games, and said: ''We've been here before, haven't we? Salt Lake was always three steps forward, two steps back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As Mitt Romney campaigned Friday in Denver, abortion opponents and Romney supporters exchanged words.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RELIGION (82%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING STRATEGY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); RICK PERRY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (76%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



57 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: New Bids Are Sought For Building On Railyards

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, seeking a bigger financial stake in the sale of development rights over the West Side railyards, has asked five competing developers to submit a new round of bids. According to documents sent to the developers Monday night, the authority prefers to lease the property, 26 acres overlooking the Hudson River, to the winning bidder for 99 years, rather than to sell it. And in a new request, it is asking for an ''equity-type interest'' in any project built on the land. 
 The authority is tightening up the terms for the use of a rare commodity -- undeveloped land in Midtown -- at the very moment that the developers are growing increasingly uneasy about the economy. 
 Demand remains strong for apartments, and vacancy rates in office buildings are still low. The subprime crisis in residential real estate nationally, however, is beginning to seep into the commercial market. Investors seem to be waiting for prices to fall. 
 The bidders were reluctant to discuss publicly the authority's revised request for fear of jeopardizing their bids.
 ''I think these people don't realize what the financial climate is like,'' one bidder said of the transportation authority. ''If they want to get something done, people are going to have to be realistic. They're operating as if everything is great.''
 The bidder's complaint could be a bargaining posture. But the railyards are the largest parcel of undeveloped land in Manhattan and offer a huge opportunity for any developer, even if a project takes years to build. 
 The winning bidder must first erect platforms over the Long Island Rail Road tracks on both sides of 11th Avenue, between 30th and 33rd Streets, before putting up any buildings.
 The developers -- Brookfield Properties; a partnership of the Durst Organization and Vornado Realty Trust; Extell Development; Related Companies; and Tishman Speyer Properties -- submitted their original offers in November. Under the terms of the sale, the developers can provide about 12 million square feet of residential and commercial space amid some parklike areas.
 The original bids each included their own set of conditions, and the authority is seeking to impose similar terms on all bidders to compare them more accurately. The builders are being asked to pay rent, which escalates over time, and to pay fees equivalent to full real estate taxes. The authority asked the developers to submit their new bids on Feb. 19. It still plans to select a winner next month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (64%); BROOKFIELD OFFICE PROPERTIES INC (53%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (64%); BPO (TSX) (53%); BPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (64%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



58 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GROUND LEVEL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: A Region Where Many Voters Opt to Cross Party Lines

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: RIFLE, Colo. 

 BODY:
Political quirkiness has a long and honored pedigree in the West. Many people come to places like Garfield County, a sprawling rural area here on the western slope of the Rockies, to shed the pigeon holes, labels and other confining encumbrances that they associate with the East and West Coasts and all the big cities between.
 But even when she was a Republican, which was most of her life before she moved here in 2000 and became an independent, LaVonne Fitts was nobody's idea of predictable.
 Ms. Fitts, a 51-year-old registered nurse, said she has voted third party and write-in for president in many years past (Ralph Nader, Ross Perot, Pat Robertson, Mickey Mouse). This year she favors Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, ''because she's a woman, not because she's a Democrat,'' Ms. Fitts said firmly, though as an independent, she will be unable to participate in Tuesday's caucuses here. 
 On a recent snowy morning at the Creekbend Bistro, Ms. Fitts sat across the table for oatmeal with her friend Don Locke, a 61-year-old Republican who is not thrilled with President Bush, or any of the presidential hopefuls in his party for that matter. He is leaning toward Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois. If Mr. Obama winds up as the Democratic nominee, he would be the first Democrat for whom Mr. Locke, a locksmith here in Rifle, has ever voted. 
 Over the last eight years, as Garfield County became one of the fastest-growing counties in the state -- a population increase of more than 18 percent, from a combination of retirees and workers in the booming natural gas and construction industries -- the number of unaffiliated voters like Ms. Fitts marched with the pace. Unaffiliated voters surged 14 percent, even as the numbers of registered Democrats and Republicans sagged or stagnated.
 But as Colorado, Idaho, Montana and Utah prepare for their moments in the political spotlight on Tuesday (caucuses in Colorado, Idaho and Montana, a primary in Utah) the numbers of cross-voting, label-rejecting and downright crotchety voters make the event hard to predict, or probably to make sense of even when the results are in. 
 Here in Colorado, in particular, a fundamental dynamic has changed. For many years and elections, Republicans in Denver suburbs like Arapahoe and Jefferson Counties and rural outposts like Garfield County held together a coalition that regularly overcame urban Democrats. In the last few years, a combination of demographic and economic changes has disengaged the independent voters, who were the old coalition's linchpins. 
 Two Democrats, Senator Ken Salazar in 2004 and Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. in 2006, won in the Denver suburbs and here in Garfield County as well -- a political thunderclap that still resonates. The first Democrat in a generation was elected county commissioner in Garfield County in 2002.
 ''The whole county has become a melting pot,'' said Jean Alberico, the county clerk and recorder here, who was elected last year and is the first Democrat to hold the post in more than three decades. 
 Ms. Alberico likened Garfield County to an accordion -- squeezed on the east by retirees who have been priced out of the Aspen area, and on the west by people moving in for energy jobs. Neither group is entirely predictable or uniform in its politics, she said, and both are being stressed by growth, housing concerns (though here it is a shortage rather than a bust) and environmental worries.
 Many places across the West share a piece of that mosaic.
 Parts of Wyoming and Utah have been just as caught up in the energy boom and its freight-train of growth and environmental impact. Once-bedraggled ranching and logging towns like Driggs, Idaho, and Hamilton, Mont., have been flooded with retirees and recreational buyers looking for affordable homes on the edge of the public-lands playgrounds. 
 But on the presidential level, Republicans have continued to hold firm even as the landscape shifted. Since 1964, when Lyndon B. Johnson swept the West, only Bill Clinton, who took Colorado and Montana in 1992, has been able to interrupt the Republican victory waltz in the four Western states that will vote on Tuesday.
 Health care is an increasingly pertinent issue, as many of the new Western jobs have come without insurance, and an older population moving in has increased the demand for services. Neither of Mr. Locke's children, for example, ages 23 and 26, have health insurance in their jobs, he said.
 And the energy boom -- Garfield County was No. 2 in the state last year in natural gas production -- is bringing political ripples of its own. Elizabeth Chandler, a large-animal veterinarian from New Castle, just west of Rifle, got involved in politics two years ago when she began to see illnesses in cattle living near natural gas drilling sites. 
 The two Republicans on the county commission ignored her concerns, Dr. Chandler, a registered Republican herself, said, and that spurred her to become president of the Grand Valley Citizens Alliance, a nonpartisan grass-roots group that has been pressuring oil and natural gas companies on air-quality issues.
 Her new role has not turned her into a Democrat, but it has led her to vote for a few, including Mr. Ritter, who ran for governor promising to increase regulation in the energy industry.
 ''I would support any candidate who would stand up for the health of Garfield County,'' Dr. Chandler said. ''Right now those candidates happen to be the Democratic candidates.''
 But there are also new voices like that of Karen Sprague, who tilts in the opposite direction. Ms. Sprague, 43, moved from Oklahoma to the town of Parachute two years ago with her husband, Edward, who works as a construction superintendent for the natural gas industry. 
 She is a Democrat who voted for President Bush, and has no plans to vote for a Democrat this time around either, especially if there is any hint of an environmentalist agenda that could harm her family's livelihood in the natural gas business.
 ''If we elect a tree-hugger, they'll pull the plug on this place,'' Ms. Sprague said over lunch with Mr. Sprague and their 5-year-old son, Dylan, at the Grand Valley Pub and Grill in Parachute.
 The Garfield County Republican Party chairman, Milt Blakey, said he thought that Democratic success in the last few elections here was no indicator of what might happen on Tuesday. And because independents cannot participate in the Colorado caucuses, the results might be deceiving anyway, he said. 
 Independents may participate in Utah's Democratic primary and in Idaho's Democratic caucuses, because people there do not register by party. Montana also has no party registration, but its Republican caucus is limited to local and state Republican office holders, precinct representatives and party committee members.
 Most Republicans, Mr. Blakey said, have not fallen in love with a candidate, though Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a Mormon, should do well in Garfield County's far western areas, which were settled by Mormons in the 1800s. Some voters also see Senator John McCain of Arizona as a Western voice. 
 The local Democratic Party chairman, Edward P. Sands, said that he thought Mr. Obama would do well and that John Edwards, had he stayed in the race, could have struck a chord in Garfield County with his populist stance against the abuses of corporate America. Mrs. Clinton's image is not so positive, Mr. Sands and others said, partly because of her husband, whose policies in the West as president, especially in environmental protection, struck some people as going too far. (Mr. Clinton carried Garfield County in 1992, but not in 1996.)
 But political wild cards like Roy Savage also abound, making every bet risky. Mr. Savage, a 55-year-old rancher and landowner from Rifle, was a lifelong Republican until about a month ago when he switched parties so he could caucus for Mr. Obama.
 ''The polarization between the urban elite and middle of the country is disturbing,'' Mr. Savage said on a recent afternoon in an interview at the Savage ranch. ''Obama is bridging that a little bit.''
 Mr. Savage's 83-year-old mother, Joan, is making bridges in her own way. Ms. Savage, a Republican, said she liked Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama about equally.
 ''I'd be hard pressed to tell you which one I'd vote for,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Elizabeth Chandler, a veterinarian and registered Republican, says the Democratic candidates seem to be addressing her concerns about environment-related animal illnesses.
LaVonne Fitts, a nurse, will be unable to vote on Tuesday as an independent. But she says she favors Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton ''because she's a woman, not because she's a Democrat.''
Don Locke, a locksmith, is a Republican who says he will vote for Senator Barack Obama if he becomes his party's nominee.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS Chart details the following: Colorado DELEGATES AT STAKE
Idaho DELEGATES AT STAKE
Montana DELEGATES AT STAKE
 and Utah DELEGATES AT STAKE Each charts lists key issues for each region in the upcoming election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); NURSES & NURSING (55%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); RALPH NADER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); BILL RITTER (59%); KEN SALAZAR (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008



59 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: The Stimulus Plan's Bonanza

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
REBATE checks stole the headlines when the economic stimulus plan was announced last month, but for many residents of the New York City area, the plan could bring a more lasting gift: lower mortgage rates.
 The financial relief comes from the redefinition of jumbo loans, a category that currently includes all mortgages greater than $417,000. Because area home prices are so high, jumbo loans have often been the only option for buyers. But such mortgages carry interest rates of at least half a percentage point more than smaller loans.
 Federal law has barred Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two companies that buy loans from lenders and sell them to investors, from buying loans of more than $417,000. Because lenders have no guaranteed market for their bigger mortgages, they assume more risk -- hence the higher rates charged on loans over $417,000. 
 Under the proposed stimulus plan adopted by the House last Tuesday, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would be permitted to buy loans of up to $729,750. As of last Thursday, the Senate had not yet agreed on an increase. 
 That extra money can make a huge difference in affordability. Monthly payments on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage of $625,000 at an interest rate of 6.25 percent -- the average jumbo rate in late January -- would total $3,848.23. The same loan at the nonjumbo rate of 5.5 percent in late January would cost $3,548.68 a month, a difference of $299.55.
 Michael Daversa, president of Atlantic National Mortgage, a brokerage in Westport, Conn., said he had already received calls from borrowers who wanted to refinance their current loans at the nonjumbo rates, even though it's not yet known when the new loan policies will take effect.
 Mr. Daversa said prospective refinance candidates should weigh the cost of refinancing -- typically about $2,000 or more -- against their prospective savings in monthly payments during their expected tenure in their homes. 
 If interest rates do not change drastically before the new policies take effect, Mr. Daversa said, refinancing will make sense for many homeowners. ''I think 2008 is going to be the year of the refi,'' he said.
 Lewis Futterman, a co-developer of the Lenox and of 5th on the Park, two new Harlem condominiums, said the new loan policies could sustain demand for many one-bedroom units in Manhattan. Those in his buildings are priced from about $600,000 to more than $2 million. ''It'll probably speed up sales a little in the emerging neighborhoods,'' he said. ''But more than anything else, it'll be one more reason why the nationwide housing slump is unlikely to hit Manhattan.''
 The government's proposed new loan policies also include an increase in the size of Federal Housing Administration mortgages, which qualify for federal insurance. These loans carry less risk for lenders and therefore better terms for borrowers. Among other things, F.H.A. loans require down payments of only 3 percent.
 The loans are available to all borrowers, but their top limit is typically too low for many New York-area borrowers to take advantage of them. In Fairfield County, Conn., and Essex County, N.J., for instance, the maximum F.H.A. mortgage is about $363,000, which is far less than the median house price. Under the stimulus plan passed by the House, the F.H.A. limit rises to $729,750 for all areas.
 ''This would help out a lot,'' said Richard Tracey, president of Campbell Mortgage in West Haven, Conn., a brokerage that specializes in F.H.A. loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); SALES REBATES (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



60 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HOME FRONT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: A Store Where Profit Comes Not in Dollars

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
E-mail: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AT a small high-end children's clothing and toy store on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, shirts for infants go for as much as $40 and sweaters for toddlers to first graders cost $40 to $70. But many parents in the area are well off and accustomed to paying those prices, according to the store's operator, Marjorie Stern.
 That gives her high hopes that this seven-month-old shop will thrive, though not for her profit. The store, A Time for Children, on Amsterdam Avenue near 84th Street, is owned by a family foundation that Ms. Stern and her husband, Michael Stern, established two decades ago to help disadvantaged children. 
 She opened the store, she said, as an enhanced way for their foundation to support the Children's Aid Society in New York City. With the store, she said, the couple's foundation, Big Wood, provides not only money for Children's Aid, but also a job-training site for its youth employment program. 
 All of the store's after-tax revenue goes to Children's Aid, and all of its employees, except for two managers and a training assistant, are 16- to 20-year-olds referred for part-time work by the agency. They generally work four-month stints of 12 to 15 hours a week, earning $8 an hour, while attending high school in most cases, or college in a few.
 Ms. Stern owned several gift and accessory stores for adults in the 1970s and '80s. The couple started their foundation in 1987 with ''a couple of million,'' Mr. Stern said, from his share of the $160 million that he and his father, Milton Stern, had received from selling their perfume-making business (called Parfums Stern) to Avon Products.
 Ms. Stern aims to expose the store's young employees to career opportunities in the retail world. To make the experience more than ''just standing in the store and selling,'' she said, she seeks to acquaint them with tasks like selecting and effectively displaying merchandise. 
 ''She took five or six of us to a toy trade show to learn the buying aspect,'' one of the employees, Charline Mitchell, 18, said recently. ''It helped me to see how we get things into the store and how to buy what's appropriate for the store.''
 Ms. Mitchell, a Queens resident and a freshman at St. John's University, said she planned to major in economics but was unsure about a career path. She previously worked as a summer intern at HBO, another position she obtained through Children's Aid, a 155-year old nonprofit agency that also runs social service, recreation and youth leadership programs. 
 She is one of 20 people who have been hired from among the Children's Aid referrals since the store opened in July. Fourteen were taken on at that time, and 10 of them worked until completing their four months in October. Ms. Mitchell and three others were kept on for another four months, Ms. Stern said, in part to provide experienced help for the holiday season; they and six others who began in November will be succeeded by a new crew in March.
 Ms. Stern estimated that sales for the six months the store operated last year totaled about $100,000. The foundation paid the $30,000 cost of renovating the space and is paying for the merchandise -- $100,000 so far -- and the overhead, including the $5,000 monthly rent. 
 C. Warren Moses, the chief executive of the Children's Aid Society, said the store was an ''incredible, creative use of philanthropic dollars.''
 At the store, another employee, Stanley Dye, 20, of the Bronx, said he was studying for an associate's degree in business administration at the Borough of Manhattan Community College. His experience at the store, he said, along with a job and internships he has had at a publishing house and other companies, will ''help me decide what I'll want to do.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marjorie Stern at her foundation's store, A Time for Children, working with Charline Mitchell, left, and Stanley Dye. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%)

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC (53%)

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



61 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Nonfiction Chronicle

BYLINE: Reviews by BLAKE WILSON. 
Blake Wilson produces the Books section for The New York Times on the Web.

 BODY:
A VIEW OF THE OCEAN, by Jan de Hartog. (Pantheon, $17.95.) In this slim memoir, Hartog, a noted novelist and playwright who died in 2002, sketches his mother: she's the girl beneath the flowering cherry, the piously forbearing housewife and the white-haired ''mischievous saint,'' attested doer of good works in Japanese prison camp and Dutch retirement home alike. But at its heart, ''A View of the Ocean'' is an unsparing account of her death. De Hartog was a sort of northern European Hemingway: a best-selling novelist and legitimate hero of the Dutch resistance before he turned 30. But for all his physical and moral courage, he couldn't bear nursing his mother in the last weeks of her life. 
He breaks down in the attempt -- and the simple rhythm of his prose turns to a howl. In particular, he's undone by the stench of her cancerous breath: ''It defeated everything in me that wanted to help, to love, to succor.'' This is painful to read, but that pain is necessary to understand why de Hartog -- though a lifelong skeptic -- turns to prayer, and to believe in the religious revelation that follows. The ending suggests he will convert to Quakerism. In fact, he did, adamantly, and went on to write several well-regarded novels about that faith.
 TRYING LEVIATHAN: The Nineteenth-Century New York Court Case That Put the Whale on Trial and Challenged the Order of Nature, by D. Graham Burnett. (Princeton University, $29.95.) When historians of science lay down their dusty books, they must dream of finding a subject like the court case Maurice v. Judd. In December 1818, lawyers, scientists and laymen convened to argue a proposition before a jury of their peers: is a whale a fish? The case centered on whether a New York statute mandating the inspection of fish oil applied to three casks of whale oil owned by the merchant Samuel Judd. Burnett, an associate professor of history at Princeton, argues that more was at stake: this was a referendum on the status of science in public life. The star witness for the defense, Samuel Mitchill, an Enlightenment naturalist and New York's pre-eminent scientific mind, lectured the courtroom on Linnaean classification and comparative anatomy and declared that ''a whale is no more a fish than a man.'' But he turned out to be this trial's William Jennings Bryan, not its Clarence Darrow. The prosecutor William Sampson ran circles around Mitchill in cross-examination, humiliating the old philosopher in front of a packed gallery and in the newspapers that sensationalized the case. The narrative of the trial is often improbably entertaining -- at one point, a whaling captain named Preserved Fish takes the stand. The author also sets off on frequent ''departures, detours, loops'' to explore larger questions about the place of science in American society. These excursions make ''Trying Leviathan'' better reading for historians than for a general audience. The brave few up for the heavy lifting, though, will find Burnett's assiduous footnoting and careful explanation of his working method to be a valuable introduction to the way his quarter of the academy prosecutes its science.
 JOURNEYS IN THE NIGHT: Creating a New American Theatre With Circle in the Square: A Memoir, by Theodore Mann. (Applause Theatre and Cinema, $34.95.) ''It's funny how life stitches things together,'' Mann writes in this memoir of his career as the longtime artistic director of Circle in the Square, New York City's first nonprofit theater. This is gross understatement: the fun of ''Journeys in the Night'' is found in the happy accidents, fantastic luck and fairy godmothers that enabled the Circle, which the author helped found in 1951, to achieve early success with plays by Tennessee Williams and Eugene O'Neill, and then to endure and prosper. Like many who have an excellent command of the anecdote, though, Mann gets windy and repetitive when allowed to hold the stage for too long. His charisma and enthusiasm, as well as a good story and a great cast, carry the reader through the Circle's early days and Mann's bohemian Greenwich Village life. But decades of formulaic production histories dominate the book's second act, and while Mann's memory for casting, rehearsals and reviews is sharp, he offers little critical insight into the plays he produced and directed. 
 EX MEX: From Migrants to Immigrants, by Jorge G. Castaneda. (New Press, $25.95.) Castaneda is an interesting case: he's an ex-Communist political scientist with several books to his credit; but he's also a member of Mexico's political class who served as former President Vicente Fox's foreign minister from 2000 to 2003 and mounted a maverick bid for the presidency in 2004. His latest book is a short primer on Mexican immigration to the United States, offered as ''a Mexican perspective.'' In it, Castaneda provides more than a century of historical context for current debates, covering the domestic politics and economic effects of emigration from his home country, as well as the more familiar story north of the border. ''Ex Mex'' is most interesting when Castaneda writes in the mode of a political insider. Most of his arguments are consonant with progressive voices in the United States, but he also has positive things to say about the pre-9/11 Bush administration, relating a series of high-level meetings that suggested there might be an easy path to widespread amnesty and generous allotments of guest worker visas. Elsewhere, he admits that the Mexican Consular Identification Card he helped issue to Mexicans living in the United States -- a document that made it easier for illegal immigrants to open bank accounts and get drivers' licenses -- was indeed meant to be ''an instrument of backdoor amnesty.'' Unfortunately, Castaneda is rarely this frank about his public role or his agenda, which undermines the authority of his nimble account of the recent stalemate on immigration. The usefulness of this book as a reference is also limited by its haphazard organization and lack of any chapter titles or section headings. But Castaneda does compress a great deal of history and policy into 200 pages, and he has a lot to say about what is politically feasible in Mexico if a bilateral solution is desired. Those who side with him in hoping that the United States will ''adapt legality to reality, instead of the other way around,'' will find a welcome picture of how that future might be achieved.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MINIHAN/EVENING STANDARD -- GETTY IMAGES, FROM ''BLACK BRITAIN'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); BESTSELLERS (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (70%); HISTORY (69%); TESTIMONY (69%); JURY TRIALS (69%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); RELIGION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); REFERENDUMS (62%); OILS & FATS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (57%)

TITLE: A View of the Ocean (Book)>; Trying Leviathan (Book)>; Journeys in the Night (Book)>; Ex Mex (Book)>; A View of the Ocean (Book)>; Trying Leviathan (Book)>; Journeys in the Night (Book)>; Ex Mex (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



62 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: The Many Benefits of a Children's Museum

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Plan for Children's Museum at Historic Site Faces Delay'' (Westchester and the Region, Jan. 27):
 The proposed Westchester Children's Museum, when opened, will provide a vibrant place for families to share valuable educational and cultural experiences. Its presence will allow for significant educational partnerships with our schools by bringing curriculums to life and inviting children to experience firsthand the intersection of history, culture and geography. 
 The museum has a business plan that will make it self-sustaining, and it's important to note that other children's museums have realized local economic benefits by attracting cultural tourism.
 Like any large-scale project, the development of the Westchester Children's Museum will likely experience challenges. But we feel strongly that it would add a unique element to Westchester, enriching the quality of life for all of our citizens. 
 Jeremy Barker West Harrison, N.Y., Jan. 29, 2008
 The writer, principal of Samuel J. Preston School, is a member of the Westchester Children's Museum exhibitions committee.
 To the Editor:
 In my role as the district attorney of Westchester County, I am often the unfortunate end point for young people who have made a series of bad decisions.
 I am a firm believer that rich educational opportunities for children are a key to shaping responsible, motivated adults. 
 I am often asked to serve on the boards of important organizations, and with very few exceptions, I have declined to do so. The Westchester Children's Museum is an exception.
 Your Jan. 27 article outlined the challenges of our fund-raising campaign but did not reveal the full depth of the benefits the museum will have for our children. 
 This museum is a communitywide investment in our children. It will provide fundamental learning experiences and be an institution of exploration where children lead the process of discovery in an educational atmosphere while allowing us all to share in their experience of learning about the world around them. 
 Janet DiFiore White Plains, Jan. 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CURRICULA (77%); WRITERS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



63 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
English and Only English?
 To the Editor:
 I agree with Kelley Holland's criticism of English-only rules in the workplace (''When English Is the Rule at Work,'' Under New Management, Jan. 27). 
 Many employees who speak another language already have a command of English, so their English-speaking customers are being served. Their knowledge of a second language can thus be a benefit all around. 
 When bosses, like so many other Americans, are monolingual, they can feel left out when their employees speak to one another in another language. But notice how few employers try to learn the other language of their workers. That's too bad -- but how American. Susan J. Behrens
 Brooklyn, Jan. 27
 The writer teaches linguistics at Marymount Manhattan College.
 Those Green Incentives
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Green Buildings Don't Have to be New'' (Square Feet, Jan. 27):
 Because commercial buildings account for more than half the nation's electricity consumption and generate 30 percent of all greenhouse emissions, federal and state governments should do more to motivate commercial buildings to be retrofitted to meet standards of the Leadership in Energy and Environment Design program. 
 Local governments should be authorized to impose a tax on buildings that are not green and to use the revenue to help existing businesses retrofit so they can manage their properties more efficiently. Local governments should also adopt legislation requiring all new residential and commercial buildings to be green. Paul Feiner
 Greenburgh, N.Y., Jan. 28
 The writer is town supervisor of Greenburgh.
 A Saudi City Is Born
 To the Editor:
 ''The Construction Site Called Saudi Arabia'' (Jan. 20), which described the Saudis' huge investment in building new cities, underscored an essential front in the war on terror: economic development in the Middle East.
 For decades, many of the kingdom's youth have floundered in a society that is one of the richest on earth. It is relief to see that the kingdom's rulers have chosen to use much of the proceeds from the recent rise in oil prices for the kinds of projects that will benefit ordinary Saudi citizens. This is precisely the kind of policy that the United States government should support in Middle Eastern nations, especially those it counts as close allies.
 This front in the war on terror that may well end up saving American lives and strengthening the United States economy through development of overseas markets and investment opportunities. Brandon Neblett
 Baltimore, Jan. 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (79%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LINGUISTICS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); GREEN BUILDING (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (67%); CONSUMPTION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



64 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Boomtown Builds Its Future on the Business of Sports

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: GLENDALE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Jeff Feagles, the punter for the Giants, grew up in the Phoenix area and remembers the suburb of Glendale as ''out in the boonies,'' a farming town northwest of the city that was ''really, really far away'' and filled with cotton fields.
 ''Now, it's amazing,'' Feagles said. ''There's this big U.F.O. sitting in the middle of the desert.'' The U.F.O. is the University of Phoenix Stadium, site of Super Bowl XLII on Sunday between the Giants and the New England Patriots.
 The stadium, a shiny oval with a retractable roof, is one of the anchors of a sports complex that has sprouted in the last decade and is changing the character of the community. It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals, who moved there last season. 
 Across the street from the stadium is a new hockey arena that lured the Phoenix Coyotes from the arena they used in Phoenix. Nearby, ground was broken in November for a baseball spring training complex for the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Chicago White Sox.
 The football stadium has already played host to the Bowl Championship Series title game and is trying for an N.C.A.A. Final Four in basketball. The sports facilities have spurred a building boom of hotels, shopping centers, condominiums and restaurants.
 Since the 1970 census, Glendale's population has grown to almost 250,000 from 36,228, city officials said. They said they hoped that corporate executives visiting for the Super Bowl would be enticed to book future conventions or construct offices and factories. Around town, signs say ''Glendale's Got Game.''
 The community appears to be soaring in the manner of the F-16 fighter jets that lift upward from Luke Air Force Base, which is in the city limits and is Glendale's largest employer.
 ''In 1999 and 2000, you would have been hard pressed to convince me that government should be getting involved with professional sports and all the hoopla that goes with them, all the glamour and whatever,'' Mayor Elaine M. Scruggs said. ''But I was really wrong.''
 Ed Beasley, the city manager, said the city pursued its aggressive sports facilities program even during the economic recession that followed the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. He said the possibility of a new recession did not discourage him.
 During a financial downturn, Beasley said, labor is plentiful and cheap, and construction can proceed without delays. ''People always turn to sports when things aren't going so well,'' he said. ''It's been that way since the Romans and the Greeks.''
 Scruggs and Beasley said Glendale was fortunate because it offered land that was almost unoccupied, except for farms and ranches, and was near a new freeway. ''God only made land once,'' Beasley said. ''If you can control it, you've got something of value.''
 Ted Ferris, the president and chief executive of the Arizona Sports & Tourism Authority, said that the stadium's economic ripple effect to the region was worth about $1.6 billion annually. ''The real benefit is to the macroeconomy,'' he said.
 Ferris said the figure was produced by an economic impact study before the stadium was built.
 But not everyone in the area supports spending public tax money on private facilities for sports businesses. Tim Weaver, who ran unsuccessfully for mayor in 2002, said in an e-mail message in response to questions that because tax revenue paid for the $455 million stadium, the Cardinals and the N.F.L. ''received all of the benefit and took none of the risk that is usually associated with private business ventures.''
 He added: ''Regardless of its success or failure, or the amount of money it pumps into the economy, it is, and will continue to be, an inappropriate use of public funds. Where are my tax dollars to subsidize my business?''
 Ferris said that the sales tax on hotels and rental cars in the county paid for about two-thirds of the stadium costs. The rest is generated by sales taxes at the stadium itself, he said.
 Byron Schlomach, an economist at the Goldwater Institute in Phoenix, which he described as a research group that urges limits on government involvement in the free market, said it was difficult to quantify the public benefits from arenas.
 ''It's roughing the taxpayer with no instant-replay review,'' Schlomach said in a telephone interview. ''It's fundamentally unsound to base an economy on big government projects. The benefits are fairly concentrated and the costs are spread out.''
 Glendale's aggressive growth astounds longtime residents, including those who support it. Manny Martinez, 79, the vice mayor, remembers picking crops in Glendale in his youth when migrant workers passed through during the harvest.
 ''On my first work day here, I picked cotton and I made 60 cents,'' Martinez said. He added that he would shop in Phoenix as a boy and head home to see a sign at the city limits that said ''Glendale, Population 5,000.''
 John Akers, 38, grew up in Glendale and works at the Sahuaro Ranch, a fruit farm established in 1886, six years before Glendale was established as a town. He is a historian who shows tourists an adobe building on the ranch and tells them of the region's roots.
 ''It's exciting,'' Akers said of the development. But he added: ''Growing up here, there were always farms on the horizon. You could see the hay barns. I do miss that. Probably in 10 years, there won't be any farms left.''
 Growth picked up during World War II, when the air base was established to train pilots. After the war, Glendale became a bedroom community for workers in Phoenix and for retired military personnel.
 The current pilots fly training missions to the Barry M. Goldwater Range, 65 miles to the southwest. Capt. Miki Gilloon of the Air Force said the stadiums were a diversion for the airmen because they provided entertainment. 
 Doug Moss, the president of the Coyotes, said he would like to see more of them because attendance was down to about 12, 500 a game. ''We're still losing money, but we're on the way into the black,'' Moss said. Wayne Gretzky coaches the team.
 But Moss and others disputed the perception that the arena was too far from the Phoenix population center, saying that the metropolitan area was shifting and that Glendale would eventually be the center of the region.
 Perhaps that will come true. But there is a cautionary tale about 40 miles to the east, in Goldfield, Ariz., where gold was discovered in the 1890s and drew thousands to mine for it. It now exists only as the rebuilt tourist attraction, Goldfield Ghost Town.
 Bob Schoose, one of the owners, said there was little comparison between gold mining in the 19th century and sports businesses in the 21st century except for the danger of overbuilding because of too much optimism.
 ''In Goldfield, there were about 50 different mines operating, but only 4 or 5 were successful,'' Schoose said. ''The rest were hoping and spending money. Eventually, people gave up and went back with their tails between their legs.''
 The key for Glendale's sports and entertainment business, he said, is to keep booking events to fill those new arenas, hotels and restaurants. ''I don't see any bad side, unless the economy takes a hit,'' Schoose said. ''It's all about the economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ed Beasley, far left, the city manager of Glendale, Ariz., at an area mall. Beasley sees sports facilities as catalysts for development. Cotton is still harvested near the stadium.
 University of Phoenix Stadium, built with tax dollars, will play host to Super Bowl XLII. A hockey arena is across the street, and ground has been broken for a baseball spring training complex. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); MAYORS (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ICE HOCKEY (74%); AIR FORCES (72%); BASKETBALL (69%); RESTAURANTS (65%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (62%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); ARMED FORCES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (57%); PHOENIX COYOTES (56%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (56%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



65 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SKETCH PAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
AFTER climbing up four flights of steep but ornate stairs, one was hoping to open the door of the apartment and be swept away by its (perhaps a trifle shabby) magnificence.
 That didn't happen.
 On paper, or on the Internet, the condominium in the 1906 building in SoHo looked like a steal -- oh, yes, the broker clearly stated it was a walk-up -- but two bedrooms in one of the most charming neighborhoods in the city, at 199 Prince Street, between Sullivan and Macdougal Streets, for a little over $700,000? And a sponsor sale to boot? How bad could it be?
 Well ...
 Adam Kushner, an architect who specializes in designing (and sometimes constructing) whole condominium buildings in Manhattan, was hardly puffing when he reached the door, but he took a deep breath when he walked around the small space. 
 ''Is this all there is?'' he asked, quite seriously, before undertaking the challenge: to create a new design for this rather nondescript apartment, with virtually no views and only a few windows.
 ''This is a trapped space,'' he announced after a few quick trips around the 500-or-so-square-foot condo, converted from a rent-stabilized rental in 1987. ''I look at how the apartment fits into the greater building, and into the city. This feels very much like the connection with the city stops at the front door. We'll have to do something about that.'' 
 At least he was game.
 ''When you come home at night, you want to feel you have reached your little oasis,'' he said, as the real estate agent, Eugene Cordano of Halstead Property, nodded in agreement.
 Surrounded by a certain amount of doom and gloom about the size of the apartment and the height of the stairs -- ''the elevator is definitely not on order,'' Mr. Cordano said wryly -- the agent began to make his pitch.
 ''You'd be hard-pressed to find another two-bedroom under $1 million around here, albeit with 9-by-10 bedrooms,'' he said. ''It still works.''
 Works for you?
 ''Works for others,'' he quickly replied. ''We sold one six or eight months ago for $725,000 -- one floor down.'' The asking price for this one is $719,000.
 Mr. Kushner drew some analogies to the space, including an Indonesian temple named Borobudur that he had once visited -- ''as you circumvent the building, as you go up and around the circle, the walls get smaller and smaller until, at the top, the world opens up to you; it's something I'd like to exploit.''
 He paused. ''Let me just walk around the apartment again.''
 Exactly one week later, he had tacked at least a dozen sketches, several more refined drawings and some computer renderings to the south wall in his 5,000-square-foot office in a loft building on Broadway just below Canal Street. He had also imagined the clients who would inhabit the condominium and designed an amazing apartment for them, one that transforms the claustrophobic rooms into a loft that makes fun of prim notions of privacy.
 ''They're a couple in their early 40s who forgot to have children,'' he said, reading from his notebook. ''They're from Rome. She's a doctor who takes dance when she's not on call, and he's a successful TV producer who loves the traditional Roman pleasures of wine and good food.''
 ''They fell in love with New York after seeing 'After Hours' '' -- the 1985 movie by Martin Scorcese -- ''and most of Woody Allen's early work,'' the architect continued. 
 Mr. Kushner said the imaginary couple constitute ''sort of alter egos'' for him and his wife, except that the Kushners have young twins.
 His wife is a doctor, too, and they've always wanted to live in Rome. ''But right now,'' he said, ''the economic reality is that the Europeans are running the world and not us.''
 For these imagined sophisticates, Mr. Kushner, not surprisingly, knocked out almost all the walls. But in a surprise move, which might be allowed, especially since the apartment is at the rear of the building, he added a series of small windows and a few bigger ones, one of them a large, almost floor-to-ceiling single pane that acts as one of the shower walls.
 Are the shower walls going to be frosted -- either the interior wall, facing the living space, or the window set into the exterior brick wall?
 ''No, these people are married,'' he said. ''They're very comfortable with each other.'' He then pointed to a photograph he had taken showing the approximate view from what would become the new window: an undeveloped roof on a neighboring building. ''And who's going to be up there?'' he asked.
 The new windows add light, and interest, but they also offer mirror images. From a window in the living room section of the apartment, trees can be seen on the terrace of a penthouse in the distance. For counterpoint, Mr. Kushner has planted a ficus tree in a huge rough-hewn wood counter that bisects the main room -- its top is composed of three 12-by-14-inch ''beautiful, tactile'' beams, he said.
 The shower has flown to the other end of the place, its pipes buried under the new floor. The toilet, which cannot be moved, is incorporated into a stone slab and can be screened for privacy by a frosted window on hinges, in case there are guests. 
 The big bed is on the north wall. It is a simple platform floating 18 inches off the floor, the only trick being that the architect has bumped out about two feet on the pillow end, creating a glass-enclosed niche in a previously straight wall. The ''headboard'' is frosted glass; the rest is clear. 
 He has also redesigned the fire escape at the bathroom end of that same wall, encasing the balustrade in colored glass, which, he said, the city actually likes better than the old-fashioned spindled iron railing, which could trap a small child's head.
 The only real room, then, measures about 20 by 20, with a small nook off the entrance hall for storage -- the imagined clients ''collect things,'' the architect said -- and a Shaker-style rack for hanging coats.
 The architect has taken lots of liberties for this liberated middle-aged couple, like designing a cantilevered gangplank outside the new window where the second bedroom used to be, and replacing an existing window with French doors and a Juliet balcony. 
 Because the space is so small, Mr. Kushner pegs the renovation at $150,000: ''Bring in the contractor, one day of taking everything out; at $300 a square foot, it's as good as it gets -- and it's still only $150,000.''
 That's certainly one advantage of being small.
 ARCHITECT Adam Kushner Kushner Studios Architecture & Design (212) 965-0914
 PROPERTY A small two-bedroom, one-bath apartment four flights up in a prewar condominium at 199 Prince Street in SoHo. A sponsor sale with an asking price of $719,000.
 RENOVATION COST About $150,000 to gut the space, move the shower 20 feet to the other end of the apartment, and add lots of windows and a large island made of rough-hewn beams.
 REAL ESTATE AGENTS Eugene Cordano Halstead Property (212) 381-4230

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRANSFORMATION: Mr. Kushner at work, far left. This exterior sketch shows the bump-out he designed for the bed, the new balustrade of colored glass for the fire escape, and the new windows, including the big pane that would form a shower wall. It would face an unoccupied rooftop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE10)
LOTS MORE LIGHT: In Adam Kushner's design, the bed would float on a platform that would protrude into a frosted-glass alcove. The shower would be moved to the other side of the apartment. Mr. Kushner would add a series of small windows and a few bigger ones. A large, almost floor-to-ceiling single pane would form one of the shower walls. (RENDERINGS BY KUSHNER STUDIOS ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN) (pg. RE10)
 TEARING DOWN, OPENING UP: In reimagining the apartment, Adam Kushner would tear out existing walls and bisect the space with a big rough-hewn wood counter with a planter for a ficus tree. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUSHNER STUDIOS ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN) (pg. RE1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



66 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: SELECTIONS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 925 words

 BODY:
CAMPAIGN STOPS
 For decades, presidential primaries have been settled by momentum. That is unlikely to happen on the Democratic side. Super-Duper-Looper Tuesday will almost certainly not settle the Democratic race because each side will emerge with many delegates. But how do you campaign in this environment? Do you try to win states? Do you focus on Congressional districts with high turnouts? Do you care about the national aggregate numbers next Tuesday?
 Almost nobody now living has done this before. And the challenge for us journalists is that we will have no clue Tuesday how to make sense of the hundreds of different sorts of results that will come in. If you don't find this prospect exciting then you don't like politics. 
 -- David Brooks,
 ''What Florida Taught Me''
 Reader Comments:
 To answer your question of how to make sense of the Tuesday's results -- the answer is right in front of you, in your own post. 
 Remember that voters and we your readers are thinking, feeling human beings capable of our own analysis of events, and capable of making the same errors of judgment as journalists. Report more facts, and as in this post, a little more narrative journalism. ...We, the voters can make sense of the events just fine all by ourselves, and make our own decisions.
 -- Posted by Jeff Hansell
 OUTPOSTS This is the new America, Southern California's affordable edge city, drowning in a sea of debt. In the Inland Empire, the easternmost suburbs of Los Angeles, one out of every 43 households is facing foreclosure proceedings. Peek behind the palm trees and there you see the most shocking sight: abandoned swimming pools, fetid and green, left to the elements and choked with algae. Thousands of people have walked away without even draining the water. 
 Mosquito control agents now patrol these murky pools, treating them with pesticides to keep disease-carrying larvae from forming ... The new year dawned with banks set to repossess more homes than any time since the Great Depression -- about two million residences, according to various forecasts. Is this the image of our consumptive age: the empty swimming pools of Riverside County? The epitome of middle-class life as just another cash play? People who took out loans on houses they never could afford, hoping for a quick flip, have left this squalor under the sun to the mosquito-control agents.
 -- Timothy Egan,
 ''The Pools of Riverside County''
 Reader Comments:
 While the Bush administration has busied itself taking away our constitutional rights and denying civil liberties in the name of a holy war on terror, they forgot about basic economic facts. It was easier to appoint a bank czar at the Fed and pull the string for the proper pronunciations to come out on cue. Now reality kicks in and we see the complete lack of economic understanding and political leadership which led us into this fetid foreclosure pool.
 -- Posted by Michael Keegan
 I don't think the banks should get these homes either. Give them to the stranded former residents of New Orleans who have been waiting too long. At least a little good would come of that.
 -- Posted by Bill Parks
 THE WILD SIDE Looking around the Earth, it's striking how often similar traits evolve in similar environments. So: birds living on remote islands typically lose the power of flight. Males in species (be they chimpanzees or yellow dung flies) where females are promiscuous tend to evolve high sperm counts and large testes. Animals that live in caves lose their eyes and their color ... Mammals that specialize in eating leaves -- be they cows or langurs (that's a monkey) -- have evolved foreguts where bacteria break down the leaves ... In short, evolution has a remarkable tendency to repeat itself.
 That this happens has been known for decades. But now we're unpicking the genetic basis for the repetitions. And the startling thing is, evolution often repeats itself at the genetic level, too.
 -- Olivia Judson, ''The Repeater''
 Reader Comments:
 Frankly, I think a better argument for seeing similar organisms across 10,000 hypothetical earths is the fact that organisms tend to develop similar traits for similar environments, even when they don't have the same genes to fiddle with. Species without much in common fill similar niches and even come to resemble each other, such as the gray wolf and the (now extinct) thylacine wolf, which was a marsupial.
 -- Posted by Kevin Grierson
 THINK AGAIN Maybe the difference between conservative and progressive judges is a matter of what is sometimes called judicial temperament or habit. Does a judge characteristically defer to legislatures or uphold states' rights against the federal government or hew to precedent or depart from precedent in favor of timeless principle? But even the answers to these questions will not enable you to predict a judge's performance because the mantras invoked have no stable relationship to any ideological perspective. ...
 In the end, the only way to tell the difference between conservative and progressive judges may be the Justice Potter Stewart way. You know them when you see them, and when you know them it will be because of the decisions they hand down, not because of any interpretive theory they may profess, even one they loudly proclaim. And that means that when a candidate loudly proclaims that he or she will appoint judges who promise to be faithful to this or that theory, you will have learned nothing.
 -- Stanley Fish,
 ''Does Constitutional Theory Matter?''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATIONS (ILLUSTRATIONS BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WRITERS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); REPOSSESSION (69%); FORECLOSURE (68%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (67%); PESTICIDES (67%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



67 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Start to Dip, Recalling '90s Slump

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
For homeowners in the metropolitan area, all of the talk in the past year about a real estate collapse may have sounded as foreign as a Bollywood musical.
 After all, the value of the typical home in the area has more than doubled in this decade. And at the region's core, the prices of apartments in Manhattan have floated upward on seemingly unquenchable demand.
 But lately, more cracks in the housing market have begun to show, and the trend is reminding some analysts of the severe downturn in the region during the recession that followed the boom years of the late 1980s. 
 Even in Manhattan, signs of weakness have appeared beneath the headlines about ever-rising average sale prices of condominiums and co-ops.
 A report last week found that rents in Manhattan declined in January, by more than 7 percent in some neighborhoods, according to the Real Estate Group New York. 
 The latest set of numbers ''reinforces our sentiment that the market has, in fact, turned,'' Daniel Baum, the chief operating officer of the company, said in the report.
 Economic distress signals are not nearly as widespread as they were in the early 1990s, and economists are still debating whether there will even be a recession this time.
 Nonetheless, the long advance and subsequent retreat in house prices in the region bear an eerie resemblance to the rise and fall of two decades ago. It is too soon to tell just how deep the current decline will be. But James W. Hughes, who has tracked the market for homes around New York City through cycles of boom and bust, said he expected it to be worse than -- maybe twice as bad as -- the fallout from the ''real estate bubble'' of the 1980s.
 Mr. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said that housing prices in New Jersey rose 145 percent from 1980 to 1988, then fell about 9 percent by 1992.
 The pattern for the suburbs in New York and Connecticut was similar, he said. That flow and ebb left people who stayed in their houses during that period with property values that more than doubled, on average.
 But the people who bought near the peak in 1988 faced significant losses if they had to sell quickly. Indeed, it took 10 years for house prices in New Jersey to return to their 1988 level, Mr. Hughes said. (Taking inflation into account, the recovery was not complete until 2002, he said.)
 ''A lot of the pain was felt by peak-of-market buyers that bought in '88,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''Those are the ones that really got stuck.''
 From 1998 to 2006, the suburban housing market was sizzling again, with prices of homes in New Jersey rising 135 percent during that period, he said. According to the data that Mr. Hughes uses, prices in the region peaked in mid-2007. 
 Figures for Long Island show a similar pattern. In Nassau and Suffolk Counties, median home prices peaked in August and were lower by the end of the year than at the end of 2006, according to data compiled by the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island.
 Compared with most of the country, New York City property values have held up better. During the 12 months ending in November, prices in the metropolitan area fell 4.8 percent, according to Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller Home Price Indices. But that was not as bad as the 7.8 percent drop in the Washington area and far better than the declines of more than 12 percent in Miami, San Diego, Las Vegas, Phoenix and Tampa, Fla.
 Property values in Sun Belt cities grew faster than those in New York in the latest run-up. That was a reversal of the pattern of the 1980s, when house prices in the New York area rose faster and higher than in the rest of the country, then sank faster and farther. 
 Within the region, the closer to Manhattan, the better the situation looks.
 Homes in suburbs within a one-hour commute have not lost value as fast as those in the outer suburbs, said Jeffrey Otteau, president of the Otteau Valuation Group in East Brunswick, N.J. And Mr. Otteau forecasted that the closer suburbs would suffer only half of the decline of the outer suburbs by the time the market hit bottom early next year.
 ''Up to this point, the state of the market is worse now in the outlying suburbs than it was in the '89-'92 correction,'' Mr. Otteau said.
 By his measure, those prices fell 15 percent during that recession and already are down almost 15 percent since they peaked in 2005, he said. In all, he predicted that prices in the outlying suburbs would decline by about 19 percent and would not reach their previous peak again until about 2014.
 Homeowners who are waiting for the market to rebound to sell their houses will regret that decision, Mr. Otteau said.
 ''For those sellers who've decided to wait until spring to get what they think their house is worth, the spring they're waiting for is a very long time off,'' Mr. Otteau said. ''Unless you have the ability to wait this out for five years, waiting is a losing game.'' 
 Mr. Hughes of Rutgers relies on a different set of numbers than Mr. Otteau cites, but both concluded that house prices in the region would drop by at least 15 percent in the current correction, despite the recent decline in interest rates. 
 Although the local job market has not been battered by widespread layoffs as it was in the early 1990s, Mr. Hughes said he believed the housing market would suffer more this time because of the reckless lending practices that allowed so many people to buy homes with little or no money down. 
 ''I think the excesses of the subprime lending and extraordinarily low interest rates, as well as all those other exotic loans, really helped inflate the bubble,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''The correction from that and the fallout from the credit meltdown globally probably portends a more severe correction.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: HOME PRICES ON THE DECLINE: After increasing every month for the last 15 years, home prices in the New York metropolitan area began to decline in 2007. The 10-city average includes California and Florida cities where the reversal has been even more extreme. (Source: Standard & Poor's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (93%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



68 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Listening to the Jobs Report

 BODY:
The most pressing data in the latest jobs report is this: The number of people who were unemployed for six months or more as of January was 1.38 million. 
 The last time the numbers looked that bad -- when the nation was mired in joblessness after the 2001 recession -- Congress extended unemployment compensation for people who had exhausted their initial 13 weeks of benefits. This time around, unfortunately, Congress may fail to include those much needed benefits in the upcoming economic stimulus bill. 
 The White House is wrongly insisting that lawmakers stick with a bill it negotiated with House leaders before the new data was released. That version omits jobless benefits and centers instead on -- what else? -- tax cuts. In the Senate, which may vote this week on its own stimulus bill, Republicans are blocking a Democratic push for jobless benefits. Their objection: Extended unemployment benefits encourage idleness. 
 Enough. Lawmakers should trim the less effective stimulus measures under discussion: tax rebates for the rich in the Senate version and corporate tax breaks in both bills. They can make room for more effective jobless benefits in the legislation's final version.
 The rest of the jobs report should give Congress even more reason to approve a sensible stimulus package. In January, the economy lost 17,000 jobs, the worst tally in more than four years. Over the past three months, only 42,000 jobs were created on average each month, compared with 169,000 in the same period a year ago.
 The bad news does not stop there. Fewer jobs coupled with rising unemployment means that many people who are already out of work will stay unemployed longer, and that many more will soon join their ranks.
 Knowing that, refusing to extend unemployment benefits is both unconscionable and poor economic policy. The long-term unemployed are more likely to stop spending, depriving the economy of the near-term lift it needs. They are also more likely to take lower-paying jobs without benefits, which means less of a spending boost once they go back to work, and more pressure on already strained government-provided health care. 
 As the slowdown continues, Americans will be looking to the government for relief and, ultimately, reform of the economic and labor policies that have led to this point. Congress should start by extending unemployment benefits in the stimulus package. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); APPROVALS (67%); CORPORATE TAX (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



69 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; LOGBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Chug-a-Lug Contest: A High Profile Comes at a High Price

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

DATELINE: Long Beach, Calif. 

 BODY:
 TO finish first, race-team crew chiefs remind their impatient young drivers, you must first finish. This is another way of saying that a tortoise could have better odds against a hare than a bettor might otherwise presume.
 Recently, I pitted the most fuel-efficient new compact car sold in the United States against one of the thirstiest gas guzzlers on American roads. I wanted to see just how much difference there really was -- not in the mileage, which anyone can learn by simply reading the window sticker -- but in dollars and cents under typical driving conditions. My decidedly unscientific test consisted of taking a Honda Civic Hybrid on a 300-mile trek, followed by a drive over the same route in a Lamborghini Gallardo Superleggera, an Italian exotic with three fewer seats but nearly five times the horsepower. 
 Forget about an upset, folks; the tortoise did not beat the hare this time. On elapsed time, the Superleggera was an easy winner, covering the course more than an hour quicker than the Civic did. 
 But when I added up the gas receipts, the popular vote had been reversed by the Electoral College. And the entire exercise, in the area of the United States that leads all efforts to reduce air pollution produced by vehicles, left me with deeper thoughts, too. 
 Some people may argue that I should have picked the Toyota Prius for this showdown, but I thought that the Civic, with a more powerful gasoline engine and more total torque, would be a better match for the mountainous sections of my driving route. 
 The Prius, at 48 m.p.g in the E.P.A. city test, is the mileage champ among new cars, with a considerable advantage of 8 m.p.g. over the Civic Hybrid in urban conditions. But its hybrid system, which shines brightest in stop-and-go driving, offers less of a benefit on the open highway. As is the case with any car when it passes its most efficient cruising speed, the Prius's mileage gets worse the faster it goes. 
 The Civic, with a hybrid system that Honda calls Integrated Motor Assist, equals Toyota's Hybrid Synergy Drive in E.P.A. highway economy, at 45 m.p.g. I discovered on this personal fuel-economy run over public roads that with just a little restraint in using the accelerator, it would give even better results. 
 There is little to argue about picking Lamborghinis as guzzlers. With their V-10 or V-12 engines, Lamborghinis naturally finish low in the E.P.A.'s fuel economy rankings. 
 This year, Lamborghini added to its line a new family member: the Gallardo Superleggera. The Super does have one thing in common with frugal fuel-sippers -- it is a meticulous weight-watcher. The Superleggera uses lightweight carbon fiber composites to replace a number of aluminum body panels, and it has been stripped of some creature comforts to trim away 154 pounds.
 Its V-10 engine produces 523 horsepower, 11 more than the standard Gallardo. Despite its lower curb weight, the Superleggera is thirsty like its stablemates, with E.P.A. ratings of 11 m.p.g in the city and 17 on the highway. Its hard-drinking big brother, the 12-cylinder Murcielago, tops the E.P.A.'s bad-guy list at 8 city and 13 highway.
 The route I chose headed north from Long Beach for 150 miles on a stretch of road once known as Route 6, and then back to Long Beach. 
 This face-off was rigged in the Civic's favor. The Civic Hybrid was allowed to travel in the High Occupancy Vehicle lanes on Los Angeles freeways, even though I was alone. In the Gallardo, I was restricted to motoring with the riffraff in the non-H.O.V. lanes.
 The 190 m.p.h. Superleggera has a decided speed advantage over the 110-horsepower Civic. But that made no difference because each contestant was obliged to obey all posted speed limits. (I know, where's the fun in that?)
 The Civic seemed in its element, motoring on cruise control along the Southern California freeways. But it struggled to maintain the speed limit through mountainous sections and the route's many elevation changes, often forced to dawdle behind slower vehicles. The Lamborghini never hesitated going uphill or zooming around clots in the traffic flow. 
 Better yet, no matter how tortuous the mountain curves, I never needed to lift off the accelerator; the Superleggera caressed each curve while the Civic just wallowed through them. One comment from my logbook: ''The Lamborghini felt safer going through a curve at 55 m.p.h. than the Civic felt at 35 m.p.h. through the same curve.''
 On the other hand, the Lamborghini was dreadful in stop-and-go traffic, even with its e-gear automated manual transmission. (Gears are shifted with paddles behind the steering wheel.) The reaction of the gas pedal was abrupt enough to cause whiplash. The brakes were even worse -- probably the grabbiest on any production car I've tested in the last 10 years. 
 But the bottom line here was all about money. The Lamborghini, despite the pampered drive, averaged only a fraction more than 10 m.p.g. To go 300 miles, it needed 30 gallons of premium unleaded. The Civic averaged 52 m.p.g. (Yes, that is better than its E.P.A. rating.) Over the same distance, it needed a little less than six gallons of regular unleaded. 
 On a stretch of road that was long, straight and flat, the Civic actually averaged 61.2 m.p.g., traveling at an average speed of 61 m.p.h. for 61 minutes. That's six times the Superleggera's mileage.
 The Superleggera's super unleaded tab: $105. The regular unleaded Civic: $19.20.
 With the extra time spent on the road, the driver of the $23,000 Civic Hybrid can ponder what to do with the savings in gas costs and lease payments. An even better use of the time might be to consider the larger implications of leaving behind the smog-trapping Los Angeles basin, if only temporarily. 
 A year's driving in the Civic Hybrid consumes 8.8 barrels of crude oil, the government estimates, producing 4.4 tons of carbon dioxide. A Lamborghini Gallardo, meanwhile, accounts for 26.3 barrels of crude over the same number of miles, generating 14.1 tons of the greenhouse gas. In that light, the difference in cost between driving these cars seems far greater than the $85 out-of-pocket expense.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NO SUPERCAR, BUT ...: The Civic Hybrid offers savings beyond the gas bill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); SPORTS CARS (74%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (73%); NEW CAR MODELS (72%); DIETING (66%); AIR POLLUTION (65%); FAMILY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



70 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: In Praise of the Decisive C.E.O.

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
DURING this season of economic alarm and political choice, ''Judgment'' (Portfolio, $26.95), by Noel M. Tichy and Warren G. Bennis, could not be more timely. Americans live in a democracy, cherish checks and balances, and remain skeptical of concentrated power. But many also seem to hope for a savior-leader -- whether in the form of a United States president, a Fed chairman or a corporate titan.
 This book is a valentine to that savior-leader, especially to the all-deciding C.E.O.
 Executive assistants, please hide those knowing smiles. 
 The authors, two long-in-the-tooth leadership gurus, slide back and forth between business and war. They favor men of action, they say, not men of mere words. Approvingly, they quote Cato, the Roman politician, to the effect that ''when Cicero spoke, people marveled. When Caesar spoke, people marched.'' They neglect to add that when Caesar spoke, people also died. (And later, Rome fell.)
 ''With good judgment, little else matters,'' Mr. Tichy and Mr. Bennis contend in the book. ''Without good judgment, nothing else matters.'' 
 So how does one judge good judgment? There is no A for effort. ''The only thing that counts,'' they insist, ''is winning or losing.'' And that's gauged by, you guessed it, the stock price. Something smarter might be expected when business school eminences distill a lifetime of learning on a vital topic. 
 The authors say that compared with other researchers, they ''have come at judgment in a less systematic way,'' that is, ''mainly by 'hanging out' with leaders.'' Their Rat Pack method produces ''representative anecdotes,'' they assert.
 The results resemble a management consultant's miscellany: whatever jobs they happened to land, those are the cases we get to read about. The book even slips in decision-making at nonprofit organizations -- although there are no stock prices to measure their success.
 Crucially, Mr. Tichy ran the Leadership Development Center of General Electric (and has written about the era of the G.E. chief John F. Welch Jr.). This new book, too, often goes to that bottomless G.E. well. 
 The argument? Men of action, it turns out, need words.
 Winning C.E.O.'s, the authors affirm, frame and relentlessly narrate an apt story line about the company. They also pick very good people, and fire their blunders fast. Strategy matters, the authors note, but forming the team comes first. 
 And crises test not snap-decision prowess but rather prior preparation. The best C.E.O.'s gear up to make a major call before it becomes necessary, or impossible, to do so. Malcolm Gladwell is wrong, they say: judgment is a process, not an intuitive blink.
 Compelling stuff, enriched by nuanced attention to even a good decision's sometimes unpredictable aftermath -- and the need for ''redo loops.'' But the authors' well-told, if scattershot, stories often do not illuminate the line between great and mundane judgment. 
 They return again and again to W. James McNerney Jr., the G.E. veteran who was appointed chief executive at Boeing after it became embroiled in a Justice Department inquiry alleging illegal use of a competitor's documents. 
 The authors champion him for settling with the Justice Department (for $615 million). But was fighting a realistic option? Even after settling, he was called before the Senate. Was it such a leap when Mr. McNerney made a virtue (a Boeing integrity campaign) out of a necessity? 
 Another example: A triage nurse diverts staff members from a cardiac-arrest patient who appears to be 80 years old, sending them to help a pregnant teenager who has been shot. The elderly patient dies; the teenager and her baby survive. A tough job, certainly, but was the nurse's decision a great call or an obvious one?
 Thanks to the authors' access to Jeffrey R. Immelt, now General Electric's chief executive, the chapter on today's G.E. proves informative, but by their own main criterion his inclusion seems unwarranted, since his strategic bets ''have not paid off in terms of stock performance.''
 Perhaps their best case involves A. G. Lafley, the chief executive of Procter & Gamble, because under him market capitalization grew from $74 billion in 2000 to $200 billion in 2007. (P.& G. swallowed Gillette.) Mr. Lafley picked Deborah A. Henretta to run the company's baby care business -- a move the authors celebrate as a great call because Ms. Henretta understood the centrality of the consumer and of branding. 
 But so sure was Mr. Lafley of his judgment, the authors observe, that he didn't line up other key players, and his appointment of Ms. Henretta hit an immediate wall of resistance. He spent considerable time consulting with all the parties, but after the decision was made.
 As this example demonstrates, Mr. Tichy and Mr. Bennis are really writing about learning. Judgment entails not just wide experience and the right values, but also the ability to acknowledge and correct mistakes and -- an even harder task -- to put in place channels of communication that cut through and across hierarchies. 
 GREAT leaders, the authors show, seek and gain self-knowledge, learn to teach their point of view and make those around them into their teachers. It's that old Welch-era G.E. ''operating system.'' 
 Too bad circumstances often gum up the works. David C. Novak, the chief executive of Yum Brands, explains to them why McDonald's can succeed by offering seven types of food under one roof, and yet Yum customers would not go to Yum's KFC for a pizza or to Yum's Pizza Hut for fried chicken. Mr. Tichy and Mr. Bennis expect Mr. Novak, as the leader, somehow to hurdle this multibranding barrier to higher growth.
 Luck can break the easy way, too. Managers at Best Buy learned that they had a female customer base and started hiring some women. ''Best Buy,'' a senior executive of the company tells the authors, ''has the numbers to show that the more women they have per store, the higher the sales.'' 
 The book concludes with an encomium to the leader of New York City's new academy for principals, part of a continuing experiment in improving the public school system under mayoral (C.E.O.) control. It remains puzzling how Mr. Tichy and Mr. Bennis measure management success here -- clearly, not via market cap. 
 Throughout, they write about ''empowering frontline people,'' but they seem hung up on finding that single Great Leader. And that improbable quest can cost a fortune. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); MEN (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (56%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Judgment (Book)>; Judgment (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



71 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: It's Even Worse Over There

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF stock prices are supposed to reflect the underlying health of the economy, it's easy to see why the market is off to such a tough start this year. Wall Street is worried that the economy is headed for its first recession in six years, so it's only natural that investors are a little spooked. 
 But how do you explain that foreign stocks, based in overseas economies that aren't expected to contract, are off to an even worse start? 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index suffered through one of its worst Januaries ever, tumbling 6.1 percent amid growing fears over the subprime mortgage crisis and the health of the domestic housing market.
 In that same month, the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE index -- whose constituents would seem to have less to fear about the housing market in the United States -- sank 9.3 percent. And that's based in dollars. If you measured the performance of the EAFE (which stands for Europe, Australasia and the Far East) in local currencies, it tumbled 11 percent.
 Emerging-market shares, which have been the hottest asset class over the last five years, fared even worse. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index plunged nearly 13 percent for the month, both in dollars and in local currencies.
 What's going on here? On one level, the situation rejects an earlier notion that the global economy was somehow strong enough to absorb any economic shocks in the United States.
 More important, it's a sign that even if a recession is at hand -- as many economists believe -- domestic stocks may still be the best place to put your equity dollars.
 It's a counterintuitive idea. But the speed at which the market sold off earlier this year shows how quickly conventional wisdom has shifted from greed to fear.
 When growth was abundant earlier in this decade, the so-called smart money all but shunned domestic stocks, figuring that it was more lucrative to turn to faster-growing markets abroad. 
 Americans plowed record amounts of money into international investments from 2005 to 2007. For a while, that strategy paid off. Thanks to rising foreign stock prices and the tail wind of the falling dollar -- which increases the value of foreign shares held by American investors -- the average international stock fund generated an average annual return of 21.6 percent over the five years through January. That trounced the return of domestic stock funds, which were up 12.9 percent, annualized.
 But today, the watchwords are quality and safety.
 Robert C. Doll, global chief investment officer for equities at BlackRock, the investment management firm, said that despite the fears that the domestic economy is headed into a recession, ''the U.S. equity market is still regarded as the highest quality in the world.'' 
 How can this be, when earnings for companies in the S.& P. 500 are falling sharply? After dropping nearly 5 percent in the third quarter of 2007, corporate profits are expected to plunge more than 20 percent in the fourth, according to Thomson Financial. 
 Still, investors feel that there is more ''earnings visibility'' among domestic blue-chip stocks than among foreign shares, said Alec B. Young, international equity strategist at S.& P. Equity Research.
 A recent survey of fund managers by Merrill Lynch found that nearly three-quarters of them were bracing for deteriorating corporate earnings among global stocks in the next 12 months. Yet that same survey showed that only 56 percent expected domestic profits to weaken in the coming year. 
 At first blush, that may seem surprising, but the fact is that domestic corporate profits have already been sliding, so many investors feel that the worst may be behind them. Globally, however, an economic slowdown has only just begun, which means that foreign stocks may face more uncertainty.
 Another uncertainty involves the value of the dollar.
 Mr. Young noted that over the last 12 months, foreign stocks continued to beat domestic shares -- though entirely because of the weakening dollar. If you stripped that away, the EAFE index fell 11.6 percent in the 12 months through January, versus a loss of 4.2 percent in the S.& P. 500.
 Yet there is no assurance that foreign stocks will continue to enjoy this currency lift. Although the Federal Reserve has been aggressively cutting short-term interest rates, pressuring the dollar even more, the currency could stabilize once the European Central Bank starts trimming rates, too, Mr. Young said. 
 If the dollar stabilizes, domestic stocks should become even more attractive, relatively speaking. 
 ''There's a decent chance that U.S. stocks will do just fine,'' Mr. Doll said . 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%); SUBPRIME LENDING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



72 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER THE WEAKENED DOLLAR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: The Greenback Is Losing Global Appeal

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
THE dollar used to be the universal tourist currency, accepted almost anywhere, from the streets of Hanoi to the plains of Africa. But the continued slide of the dollar against other currencies has led the greenback to be shunned in unexpected places, creating new problems for American travelers and pushing prices higher. 
 The Taj Mahal has stopped accepting dollars for the entrance fee, under a new edict from the Indian Ministry of Culture that also affects other national tourist sites like the 13th-century minaret known as the Qutb Minar and Humayun's Tomb in Delhi. As a result, for entrance to the Taj Mahal, Americans must now pay 750 rupees, about $19, at the rate of 29.74 rupees to the dollar, compared with $15 previously. 
 Some tour operators say they have encountered newfound resistance to dollars in parts of Vietnam and Peru, especially in villages that are off the beaten path. 
 ''It used to be a $100 bill was universal everywhere, from Moscow to Mozambique,'' said Peter Rudy, the North America director for KE Adventure Travel, a Denver-based outfit that books adventure trips throughout the world. ''It's not now.'' 
 Even in New York, some shops are encouraging payment in foreign currency. A recent article in The Villager, a Manhattan neighborhood newspaper, noted that East Village Wines, a liquor store at 138 First Avenue, accepts payments in euros as well as dollars. 
 Over the last year through mid-January, the dollar has depreciated about 9 percent against the euro, 10 percent against the rupee and 12 percent against the Chilean peso, said Jay Bryson, global economist at Wachovia.
 In the past, savvy travelers could hedge against the weakened dollar by buying a prepackaged tour. Tour operators set prices as much as 18 months in advance, so they can be printed in brochures and other marketing materials. Those travelers were essentially getting a built-in discount during the last couple of years as the dollar fell against other currencies. But not this year. 
 Some American tour operators are now tacking on so-called currency surcharges, in much the same way that airlines have bumped up fuel surcharges in the face of rising oil costs. Others are raising package prices to help make up the difference. 
 Last month, Group Voyagers, the parent company of Globus, Cosmos, Monograms and Avalon Waterways, added a currency surcharge of about 5 percent to many of its European tours. For example, Globus's $1,699 Taste of Italy package starting on May 3 now includes a surcharge of $110 a person. Over all, travelers can expect to pay $20 to $190 extra a person for the European tours.
 Nearly 60 percent of members of the United States Tour Operators Association serving Europe and Britain said their prices would increase up to 15 percent because of the weak dollar, a December survey showed.
 And it's not just Europe. KE Adventure Travel raised prices for a handful of clients who booked winter tours to Patagonia, Bolivia and Nepal -- partly because ground agents were demanding more money to make up for the decline of the dollar. Some agents are even requesting payment in euros instead of dollars.
 ''It's a monstrous change in the business and it's affecting every one of us,'' Mr. Rudy said, adding that KE Adventures never before raised prices in midstream for its clients in its 25 years of operation.
 Despite the currency surcharges, prepackaged tours can still offer some savings. The roughly 5 percent surcharge imposed by Globus is less than the 10 percent devaluation of the dollar against the euro since it priced its vacations in June. To help ease the blow, Globus is offering a limited-time $200 discount on air-inclusive Europe vacations booked by Feb. 29. 
 And other tour operators are simply absorbing the loss. After Globus announced its currency surcharge, a flurry of tour operators including Brendan Worldwide Vacations, Insight Vacations and Collette Vacations sent out news releases emphasizing that they did not plan to levy currency surcharges. These tour operators use a hedging strategy that mitigates the effects of currency exchange fluctuations. 
 RECOGNIZING the challenge American tourists are up against, some hotels with a large American clientele have also begun to guarantee some rates in dollars. The high-end Hotel Carl Gustaf in St. Bart's, for example, is guaranteeing winter rates for travel through April 19 in dollars. While the listed rates begin at 1,100 euros, or $1,672 at $1.52 to the euro, the hotel is offering rates beginning at $1,300 a room a night with a three-night minimum to travelers who ask for the United States-dollar rate. One place to find hotels that are offering similar deals, said Stacy Small, owner of Elite Travel International, is the Web site of Small Luxury Hotels of the World, www.slh.com. The collection of upscale hotels ''has a number of properties that consistently promote U.S. fixed-dollar rates,'' she said. 
 For example, the Capital hotel in London is offering a three-night package in an Executive Double room with airport transfers and access to a health club for $1,399, not including tax. A three-night stay in that category of room would normally cost $:855 or about $1,700, at $1.99 to the pound, without the transfers or club pass. The St. James Paris is offering a City Escapes package through April that includes breakfast for $470 a room, not including tax. Rates normally start at 380 euros, about $577. 
 To get the most bang for your buck, consider destinations where the dollar hasn't declined. The dollar is flat against the Mexican peso compared with where it was a year ago, said Mr. Bryson of Wachovia, and is up about 2 percent compared with a year ago against the Argentine peso. And countries like Panama and Ecuador use American dollars as their official currency. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Practical Traveler column on Feb. 3, about the weakened dollar, misstated the value of the Indian rupee. There are 39 rupees to the dollar, not 29.74.

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY AARON MESHON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EURO (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); PARENT COMPANIES (62%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); VIETNAM (90%); INDIA (88%); AFRICA (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); CHILE (79%); VIET NAM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



73 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Carnal Market

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA JACOBS. 
Alexandra Jacobs is an editor at The New York Observer.

 BODY:
HOUSE LUST 
 America's Obsession With Our Homes. 
 By Daniel McGinn. 
 264 pp. Currency/Doubleday. $24.95. 
 Daniel McGinn, a reporter for Newsweek, is not the first person to draw, as if on architectural graph paper bordered in leopard print, an explicit link between sex and real estate. Indeed, ''Sex and Real Estate'' was the title of a 2000 book by the prolific Harvard professor Marjorie Garber, who likened the American upper middle class's then still novel fascination with pursuing and perfecting their dream domiciles to ''yuppie pornography.'' She compared buying and selling a house to ''dating,'' open houses to ''cruising opportunities,'' real estate agents to ''matchmakers,'' second homes to love affairs and house-trading to spouse-swapping. 
 Arriving somewhat tardily to this merry key party, McGinn slaps up an extra layer of aluminum siding on Garber's metaphor. ''Today, in some neighborhoods, finding someone who doesn't know the square footage of her house can be as hard as finding a Playboy centerfold who doesn't know her bust size,'' he declares in his own book, titled ''House Lust'' in partial homage to an essay by the writer Daphne Merkin in a glossy Sunday real-estate supplement to The New York Times. Shirtless, muscled carpenters, whose increasing popularity among their female clients was also documented by The Times (this time in the Thursday House & Home section), stride Fabio-like through his pages. And his discussion of the pros and cons of various vacation time-share options begins with the coy question ''Are you monogamous or promiscuous?'' (That is, do you return to the same spot year after year, or do you want ''adventure and variety''?) 
 McGinn seems to be craving an outraged slap on the cheek, but one feels more like giving him a consoling pat. ''House Lust'' was surely intended as a dose of Cialis to boost and sustain readers' interest in this unavoidable topic during the full flush of the early 21st-century housing boom. But with plunging house prices and a rash of foreclosures, it goes down more like a mood-chilling morning-after pill. 
 In his introduction, McGinn gamely tries to write around this, declaring that his aim isn't to provide ''a comprehensive economic analysis of the boom and bust'' but to show how the boom ''transformed a certain group of Americans into real estate junkies.'' 
 The author, as he admits, is one of them, quite literally invested in his subject. He lives in a ''Cape Cod-style'' house in an unspecified Boston suburb (Newton, Mass., is one of several settings, including Potomac, Md., and Naples, Fla., used as case studies to examine what might be termed the explosion of real estate envy). The residence could use a face-lift, but to his wife's dismay, McGinn instead funnels a pile of money into a shabby duplex in Pocatello, Idaho, a place where the couple has no familial or cultural ties, quickly finding himself landlord to a parolee and dealing with a deadbeat property manager. It's not so much gonzo as goner journalism. 
 Later, trying to understand what makes real estate agents tick, he studies to become one, taking the state exam (''Will you be having a graduation party?'' a neighbor asks dryly). But he stops short of plunging in to represent any transactions, instead tagging along on a couple of open houses, which feels anticlimactic, to say the least.
 Perhaps because he's encountered some connubial discord himself, McGinn is on firmest ground when plumbing the tensions that can arise when your spouse is obsessing over the precise grain of the granite countertop rather than, say, sweeping everything off its surface and throwing you down for an impassioned afternoon lovemaking session. 
 Visiting Mark and Paula, a Newton couple bickering over the installation of their plasma TV, or Pamela and Jeff, busy contentiously refurbishing a 1785 Colonial in Fredericksburg, Va. (to cool her temper, Pamela sits in one of their fancy rooms with a glass of wine and an iPod), he comes off much like the neutral, amiable counselor in the old Ladies' Home Journal column Can This Marriage Be Saved? Indeed, we've evolved as a nation to the point where, as McGinn tells us with hand-rubbing glee, there are actually therapists who specialize in ''renovation anxiety.''
 AND this is perhaps his book's weakest plank: that rather than fully indulging his own fixation on fixtures, McGinn prefers to consult a battalion of experts, like the ubiquitous etiquette guru Peter Post (do we really need him to tell us that it's impolite to discuss our house's purchase price?) and the comical-sounding Dr. G. Clotaire Rapaille, a French-born market researcher and Pierre Bourdieu manque who boldly declares that Americans crave new construction because they are ''pioneers'' who ''like to create, to go where nobody has gone before,'' and that they eschew baths for showers because they want to be ''clean and ready for action.'' That kind of deep, deep commentary makes a reader wish that McGinn had kept this a do-it-yourself project.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAT BARRETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WRITERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); RESORTS (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); CONTRACEPTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: House Lust (Book)>; House Lust (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



74 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Sale Could Be Bad for Minnows

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
-- FOR decades, Silicon Valley has been the land of eternal optimism and high anxiety, traits that pitch into overdrive anytime a seismic business event washes across the corporate and entrepreneurial landscape here -- like, for example, Microsoft's blockbuster $45 billion bid for Yahoo on Friday.
 The legions of high-tech entrepreneurs who have set up camp here with clever ideas, a willingness to scramble for financing and the energy to weather round-the-clock days have typically tethered their dreams to a singular outcome: getting fabulously rich by selling to one of the three Internet giants, Microsoft, Google or Yahoo.
 But if Microsoft's takeover bid for Yahoo succeeds, that calculus becomes more harrowing because of a simple reality: the field of large, lushly endowed suitors will narrow by one. And that is a fact sure to jangle nerves already strained by growing fears of an economic recession. 
 ''From a start-up and investor perspective, if there are more companies trying to vie for the same businesses, there are more exits,'' said Bismarck Lepe, a former Google employee and now chief executive of Ooyala, a year-old video host and advertising company. ''It's not great for competition if there are only two acquisition targets instead of three.''
 To be sure, a Microsoft-Yahoo deal could be good for Silicon Valley, funneling money into the economy and triggering a round of copycat deals as other players like Google and the News Corporation look to keep up. 
 But Microsoft is buying Yahoo because it has steadily fallen behind Google in the lucrative online search market and because the future of computing may not be forever linked to the desktop market that Microsoft now dominates. Apparently unable to keep up with Google through internal efforts, the legendary software giant in Redmond, Wash., has gone outside to solve its problems by trying to buy Yahoo. 
 So the rationale for Friday's proposed mega-deal is based on Microsoft's own particular corporate needs and may not be a harbinger of rampant deal-making in the Valley.
 Moreover, with an economic recession looming nationally, the unsolicited bid for Yahoo comes at a difficult time for the normally cocksure world of high tech. Visibly, much of the region maintains an almost obstinate belief that it can weather any economic storm that emerges. Consumers are still flocking online, advertising is following, and the current generation of start-ups has been built frugally -- with lessons from the dot-com bust of several years ago still very much in mind.
 Venture capitalists also raised nearly $35 billion last year, more than at any other time since before the dot-com crash, according to the National Venture Capital Association. Those financiers are ready to make bets on countless entrepreneurs who hope to build the next Google, Facebook or YouTube.
 But as the stock market lolls and an outsider, Microsoft, bids to gobble up a company that once was one of Silicon Valley's crown jewels, the region's innovators and corporate stewards appear to be growing ever more anxious. That trait is most visible in the top executives at public companies whose eyes are trained on parallel declines in consumer confidence and public equities.
 Shares of Google had dropped nearly 20 percent since the beginning of the year -- and then they fell an additional 8.6 percent on Friday after Microsoft made the play for Yahoo. Apple has dropped 33 percent since the start of the year. That was enough to prompt Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, to send a reassuring memo to options-sick employees last week that concluded: ''Hang in there.''
 Many in the typically overconfident venture capital world say it is foolish to believe the technology sector is somehow sheltered from the storm. 
 ''All markets are linked,'' says Peter Rip, a general partner at Crosslink Capital, adding that the pain might trickle down from the public markets to large private companies and eventually to smaller start-ups. ''We just asked every one of our companies to take a sharp pencil to their hiring plan this year. It is going to be a bumpy ride for a while.''
 IN a blog posting this week titled ''Downturn, Now What?,'' Will Price, a partner at the San Francisco venture capital firm Hummer Winblad, said the recession could punish technology investors for succumbing yet again to investment fads and high valuations for companies without proven business models. 
 He calls these companies ''Field of Dreams'' start-ups, because their entrepreneurs believed that if they built popular online services, advertisers would inevitably come. Now that might not necessarily be the case.
 ''There's been a suspension of belief'' at Internet companies without a proven way to earn money ''that the market is going to let you off the hook,'' Mr. Price said. ''These companies are going to have a hard time getting past experimental interest from advertisers when they want to start attracting really big spending.''
 MOST Valley residents, including even the most pessimistic venture capitalists, are quick to say that the Internet economy would be in an enviable position if there were a recession. Mutual funds, media companies and private equity firms are all trying to get in on the Internet action. The online advertising market is booming. 
 This is where true believers are likely to ward off recessionary fear with two numbers: 21 and 7. Twenty-one percent of the average American's media-consumption time is spent online, analysts say, yet only 7 percent of all advertising is online. The hope is that advertising will inevitably shift online and close this gap, whatever the economic outlook.
 ''Consumer eyeballs are flooding from traditional media to the Internet,'' said Seth Sternberg, chief executive of the online chat company Meebo. ''Recession or not, big companies have to figure out how to do really great brand advertising on the Web to keep their brands in front of users.''
 For that reason, many Internet executives say that traditional media companies -- not Web properties -- are likely to be the first victims of any advertising pullback. ''If our advertisers cut their marketing budget by 15 or 20 percent, that will hurt,'' said John Battelle, who ran the Industry Standard magazine during the first dot-com boom and now runs the online ad network Federated Media. (The New York Times Company has invested in Federated.) ''But my guess is that they will cut it first in print or TV and not online.''
 Still, the dot-com bust -- and its destructive reverberations -- continues to cast a shadow over even the most optimistic Internet evangelist. In 2000, as the stock market cratered and fear spread, venture capitalists pulled the plug on hundreds of start-ups and wrote off millions of dollars in losses. 
 Frank Addante's online advertising company at that time, L90, went public and reached a tantalizing market capitalization of $500 million before the dot-com bubble popped and L90 was forced to sell its technology to a rival and file for bankruptcy protection.
 Not surprisingly, Mr. Addante is keeping one eye on the economy. 
 Now the chief executive of another online advertising company, the Rubicon Project, Mr. Addante, like other entrepreneurs, is confident that the tech sector would survive an economic downturn. 
 But he is also hedging his bets. Earlier this month, the company raised $21 million in venture capital before it needed a cash infusion, in part, Mr. Addante said, because such capital may not be available in the coming year.
 ''When money is on the table and it's a decent deal, sometimes you have to go and take it,'' he said. ''You never know what's going to happen in the markets.''
 LIKE Mr. Addante, Max Levchin, the chief executive of Slide, says that the United States is on the road to recession and that Silicon Valley start-ups could be headed for a venture capital-mandated round of belt tightening. So Mr. Levchin, who co-founded PayPal, a company that successfully weathered the dot-com crash, decided to take the money while the going was good: He recently raised $55 million in additional financing for Slide, a company that makes video- and photo-sharing tools.
 ''We determined that if we were going to raise money, we would have a much easier time of it at the end of 2007 than at any time during 2008,'' he said. ''I don't think I was the only guy in town who thought that.''
 Mr. Lepe of Ooyala recalls his drives to Mountain View, Calif., in 2001, when he would see a new empty billboard off Highway 101 each week as pessimism spread through the community. 
 The lesson: Economic downturns have a way of fostering panic and transforming a community's collective consciousness. ''So much in the Valley -- whether a company gets funded or not -- happens on gut instinct,'' Mr. Lepe said. ''If someone's house isn't being sold and they can't go out and buy their yacht, it does have an impact on their psychology.''
 And what psychological impact could a potential Microsoft-Yahoo deal have on Silicon Valley's heady business environment? While he worries about the reduced number of potential acquirers, Mr. Lepe also speculates it could have a positive outcome, if it stimulates a flurry of deal-making in the industry.
 But not many entrepreneurs are holding their breath -- for a new round of deals or for a sea change in the current business climate -- because of a possible megamerger of Microsoft and Yahoo. Mr. Sternberg of Meebo said a marriage of the two Internet titans could benefit start-ups like his if Yahoo and Microsoft were able to deliver on the promise of a more efficient online advertising system. But that could be years off. 
 ''Does this impact our world overnight? Definitely not,'' he said, ''at least as far as I can see.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Max Levchin, a PayPal founder who now runs Slide, says he expects that investors in start-ups will rein in spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU7) ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (63%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); GOOGLE INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); NEWS CORP (66%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%)

PERSON: MAX LEVCHIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



75 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; SEARS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Turnarounds Jan. 27 - Feb. 2

 BODY:
THE NEWS With sales, profit and stock price plunging at Sears, its chairman removed himself from daily oversight and pushed out the retailer's chief executive.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The changes by the hedge fund manager Edward S. Lambert, who orchestrated the combination of Sears and Kmart in 2005 and now leads Sears Holdings, followed a drop in share price that wiped out $14 billion in value in nine months. Analysts complained that Sears starved its stores for money while raising prices, a mishmash that alienated shoppers. Will the moves be enough? ''We just can't avoid the cliche 'rearranging the deck chairs on the Titantic,' '' said one analyst. 
 THE NEWS Facing slowing sales and increased competition, Starbucks announced a turnaround plan that includes an aggressive effort to open stores overseas.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The coffee maker has been battered by the weak economy and increased competition from McDonald's and Dunkin' Donuts. Its plan calls for closing 100 underperforming stores and scaling back openings in the United States while pushing growth overseas, where business is robust. Say goodbye to those heated breakfast sandwiches. ''The scent of the warm sandwiches interferes with the coffee aroma in our stores,'' said Howard D. Schultz, the company's chairman.
 THE NEWS Wal-Mart Stores (yes, Wal-Mart), said it would revamp its sluggish clothing business.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The nation's biggest retailer had tried more upscale collections and created divisions to spot trends and design apparel. Customers largely rejected the designs, though, and apparel remains one of Wal-Mart's weakest departments. The company will shut down its product development and sourcing divisions, eliminate dozens of jobs (though Wal-Mart would not specify how many) and move dozens more to New York City. One analyst called the plan ''a big deal, because it means Wal-Mart can finally get apparel right.''
 THE NEWS Lord & Taylor was reported to be close to buying Fortunoff, the jewelry and housewares retailer that is facing possible bankruptcy.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The $100 million deal would marry two of New York's most storied retailers as Fortunoff struggles with slumping sales and heavy debt. Lord & Taylor wants to put Fortunoff merchandise in all 47 of its stores and open a large Fortunoff boutique within its flagship Fifth Avenue location, The Times reported. The potential deal highlights the unexpected revival of Lord & Taylor, which could become an even bigger threat to Bloomingdale's and Nordstrom if a deal with Fortunoff goes through.
 THE NEWS Bad news for retailers: consumer spending slowed in December, according to the latest figures from the federal government.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic growth. In December, it rose by an anemic 0.2 percent, and was flat when adjusted for inflation. The Commerce Department's numbers reinforced both disappointing holiday sales figures and fears of a significant downturn in spending as consumers grapple with record-high oil and food prices.Over all, prices in December were 3.5 percent higher than they were a year ago, above the Federal Reserve's ''comfort zone'' of 1 to 2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES
DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JEFF ZELEVANSKY/GETTY IMAGES
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DAVID PAUL MORRIS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (87%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (83%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (87%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (83%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



76 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: New York's Newest Citizens Hungry to Cast Their Votes

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; John Eligon contributed reporting.

 BODY:
They know whom they will vote for, though some are a little uncertain about how to vote (they are hoping someone at the polling station will explain it to them). They come from Mumbai, India; Port-au-Prince, Haiti; and Georgetown, Guyana, and their political opinions and insights on the eve of New York State's presidential primary on Tuesday have been little noticed by polls and pundits.
 Zeenat Ikramullah, 33, is an accountant from Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, who is voting Tuesday for the first time since becoming a United States citizen two years ago. She is supporting Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, in part because of her plan for health care but also, she said, because Mrs. Clinton is a strong woman who handled the scandal involving her husband and Monica Lewinsky with courage and grace.
 ''For her to sit there and be supportive during that time, when she was humiliated in front of the whole world, she must have a spine that's made out of steel, or else it would have cracked under all that pressure,'' said Ms. Ikramullah, who lives in East Harlem. 
 Like Ms. Ikramullah, Maria Elena Granada, 54, a housekeeper from Cali, Colombia, will be a first-timer on Tuesday. She registered to vote at her swearing-in ceremony in Brooklyn in January 2007. She took an unusual path to citizenship: she used some of the $1,000 she won in a contest on a Spanish-language radio station, WSKQ, known as La Mega, to pay the filing fee for her citizenship application. 
 Ms. Granada already knows her polling station (Newtown High School, near her home in Elmhurst, Queens) and the time it opens (6 a.m.). She, too, is voting for Mrs. Clinton. 
 ''Look at Argentina,'' Ms. Granada said, referring to the election of Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, the first woman chosen as president there.
 Tuesday's primaries in New York and other states will be a decisive moment for the Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns. But on a much more personal scale, New York's primary will be a momentous occasion for New York City's first-time immigrant voters.
 Some registered to vote the day they officially became citizens, and others waited months or even years. Some have followed the campaigns as closely as any American-born blogger, and have formed nuanced opinions about the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law, the impact of the Kennedy family's support of Senator Barack Obama and the decline in President Bush's approval rating. For many, the simple act of voting, even in a primary, is a thrill, marking their status as bona fide Americans.
 ''It's like doing my First Communion,'' said Oscar Escobar, 52, a maintenance worker from Medellin, Colombia, who lives in Rockaway Park, Queens, and is voting for the first time this week in the United States. ''It's a day that you don't forget.''
 In this immigrant city, about 37 percent of the population, or 3 million people, are foreign-born. A sampling of immigrant voters in recent days illustrated the excitement this hotly contested presidential race has generated among a number of ethnic groups and the varied, off-the-cuff views many have of the candidates. 
 Mrs. Clinton has earned wide support in several disparate communities, including among Guyanese in Richmond Hill, Queens; Indians and Bangladeshis in Jackson Heights, Queens; and Haitians in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. 
 Immigrants in those neighborhoods described President Clinton's years in the White House as a peaceful, prosperous time for America, and they felt that a vote for Mrs. Clinton would recapture some of that.
 ''I don't know Obama,'' said Mohammed Ali, 57, a fire safety director who lives in South Richmond Hill, Queens, and is casting his ballot for the first time this week after becoming a citizen in 2005. He is originally from Ogle, Guyana. ''I know Bill Clinton. I came to this country when he was president, and I know what he has done. For that reason I give Hillary a nod over Obama.''
 Achala Tejpaul, who is from Mumbai, India, runs a jewelry store with her husband on 74th Street in Jackson Heights. She is considering voting for Mrs. Clinton, whom she affectionately described as a ''back seater'' in her husband's administration. ''She knows what to say and what to do,'' Mrs. Tejpaul said. ''It's nothing new for her. She's been there.''
 Mrs. Tejpaul's store, Global Jewelers, is a short walk from Roti Boti Shaheen, a Pakistani, Indian and Bangladeshi restaurant that has a blue ''Hillary'' campaign poster taped to the window. 
 In nearby Woodside, four Colombian immigrants, including Ms. Granada and Mr. Escobar, gathered one recent evening at the offices of Make the Road New York, a nonprofit community services group. All four had taken citizenship classes there, and all four -- including 83-year-old Matilde Ospina -- plan on backing Mrs. Clinton when they vote for the first time in the New York primary.
 But Mrs. Clinton does not have a lock on immigrant voters. Nash Khan, 51, a friend of Mr. Ali's and a day laborer from Georgetown, Guyana, is casting his ballot -- his first -- for Mr. Obama, who he felt would bring a new energy to the White House. ''I just see him as a young guy,'' Mr. Khan said. ''He's new. Even though he may not have the years of experience, he still has a good agenda he's working with.''
 Among the immigrants interviewed, the slowing economy seemed their main concern, and several of them mentioned their fears of a recession more often than they mentioned the debate over immigration.
 Rabindranauth Koobial, 51, comes from the town of Cromarty, Guyana, and owns a West Indian restaurant called Kaieteur Express Restaurant on Liberty Avenue in Ozone Park, Queens. One afternoon, Mr. Koobial swiveled back and forth on a stool, staring at the empty tables and chairs in his restaurant. After 20 minutes, three people came in, and all ordered the same $8.99 dish: spicy chicken fried rice.
 ''Nobody wants to spend money,'' Mr. Koobial said. ''Everybody's holding back.''
 Mr. Koobial, a registered Republican, planned to vote for Senator John McCain. ''He's a guy who reaches across the aisle to work with the other side,'' he said. In four of the past five presidential general elections, he has supported the Democratic candidate, explaining that his vote ''swings either way.''
 Indeed, it remains unclear what role immigrant voters will play in the primary.
 John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center at the City University of New York, said roughly 30 percent of voters in the city are foreign-born, a bloc whose political leanings are increasingly hard to decipher. 
 One study, directed by a political scientist at Barnard College, found that first-time immigrant voters in New York City defied traditional voting patterns in the November 2004 election, with more than 18 percent of the new voters choosing President Bush compared with 15 percent of native-born voters. 
 ''Immigrants are a very diverse group, just like the native-born electorate is very diverse,'' said Mr. Mollenkopf, a political science professor. ''Russians and Dominicans are not going to be voting the same way, any more than Puerto Ricans and the Irish are going to be voting the same way.''
 On one wall of the Benoit Barber Shop, a three-chair establishment in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, there are large framed photographs of Nelson Mandela and Malcolm X. One day in 2004, the owner, Sylvain Benoit, clipped the front page of The Daily News and taped it to the wall below Malcolm X, where it has remained ever since. The clipping shows President Clinton with his wife at the Democratic convention and the headline reads: ''Bill and Hil Wow 'Em.''
 Mr. Benoit, 61, a soft-spoken father of seven and grandfather of seven from Port-au-Prince, Haiti, said he had nothing against Mr. Obama, but he had been a longtime supporter of the Clintons, and so Mrs. Clinton would get his vote. 
 In the evenings, after Mr. Benoit closes his shop at 8, his friends and customers linger, talking politics and sports in Creole and playing checkers on an old board that the players rest on their knees. On Thursday evening, however, there was little chatting: the Democratic debate was on television.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sylvain Benoit, who immigrated from Haiti, owns a barbershop in Brooklyn and said Hillary Rodham Clinton would get his vote on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A23)
 At a community agency in Woodside, Matilde Ospina, second from left, and Oscar Escobar discussed the primary on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); WOMEN (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NATURALIZATION (75%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); SCANDALS (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); INDIA (92%); GUYANA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



77 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE CHATTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words

 BODY:
''There is not a minidress to be found, not a platform shoe in sight.''
 The clothing designer Michael Kors, whose fall collection, along with others', is paying homage to the stability and prosperity of the late '50s and early '60s. 
 ''It's lost its momand- pop, homeaway- from-home feel.''
 Aga Machauf, a Starbucks customer in Kansas City, Mo. Starbucks is struggling nationwide as it faces slowing sales growth and increased competition.
 ''You would have to agree that the consumer is in a recession.''
 Howard D. Schultz, Starbucks' chairman and chief executive, who warned that the coming year would be difficult because of a company reorganization and a weakening economy.
 ''We're going to see higher prices.''
 Dong Tao, a Credit Suisse economist, on the global effect of inflation in China.
 ''These names will pay for themselves within two years.''
 Xavier Buck, a businessman who spent $150,000 for 15 domain names, including 7th.com, chaptereleven.com and computersystems.com, at a live auction in Los Angeles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); AUCTIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SALES FIGURES (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (53%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (70%) MISSOURI, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) CHINA (72%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



78 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: As Primary Nears, Voters Critique Field

BYLINE: By DAVID McKAY WILSON

DATELINE: FAIRFIELD 

 BODY:
 AFTER dropping their daughters off for afternoon ballet lessons, four Fairfield mothers settled in for a snack and a bottle of spring water at the Chef's Table downtown, chatting about what lay ahead for their preschool daughters. 
 But on this winter day, the conversation quickly turned from children's birthday parties and child development to politics and the presidential primary on Tuesday, the same day that 21 other states will also be holding their primaries or caucuses.
 The conversation around their table mirrored talk elsewhere in the state, where many people are torn about whom to support, or even which party they want in the White House come November. Some were concerned about the economy, while others worried about the war in Iraq. Yet others tempered their enthusiasm about a primary favorite, concerned about that candidate's electability in November.
 Independent-minded Connecticut voters have been going against the national grain since the party began holding statewide primaries in 1980. That year, Republican voters picked George H. W. Bush over the eventual nominee, Ronald W. Reagan, and Democrats chose Senator Edward M. Kennedy over Jimmy Carter, who went on to win the party's nomination. 
 This time around, several Republicans interviewed over the last few weeks said they were dissatisfied with all the Republican candidates, and were looking forward to November, when they could vote Democratic. 
 At the Chef's Table, some of the women had decided on a candidate; others said they were still mulling over their choices, as are many voters across the country, who still call themselves undecided. 
 ''I'm still wishy-washy,'' said one of the women, Lauren G. Price, 39, a Republican. ''I still have time to decide.''
 But during this compressed election season, as the earlier-than-usual primaries are taking place in quick succession, Ms. Price has seen her preferences fall by the wayside.
 Initially, Ms. Price had been backing Fred D. Thompson, the actor and former senator from Tennessee, because she believed he voted his conscience. Since Mr. Thompson dropped out of the race last month after he failed to attract many votes in Iowa and New Hampshire, Ms. Price said last week that she was torn between Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, and Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor. That was then; the day after the Florida primary, when Mr. Giuliani placed a distant third, behind Mr. McCain, the winner, and Mr. Romney, Ms. Price had fewer Republicans from which to choose. Mr. Giuliani took himself out of the running.
 Her friend, Amy G. Cooke, 36, also a Republican, said she wanted to see Senator John McCain in the Oval Office.
 ''He's an honest, hardworking guy I can believe in,'' said Mrs. Cooke. 
 Their friend Lisa E. Stamboulidis, 46, who was sitting by a huge poster of the Fairfield-born rock star, John Mayer, said she was surprised that among the four, she was the only one who backed Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mrs. Stamboulidis, a registered Democrat, said it was about time the nation had a woman at the helm. And, she said she believes that Mrs. Clinton would revive the economy, much like her husband, Bill, did while he was president.
 ''Those Clinton years were good years,'' she said. ''It has been a rough time with the Republicans in place. Maybe with Hillary, we can get back to where we were.''
 That left Cathy A. Antista, 40, an unaffiliated voter who will not be able to participate on Tuesday unless she enrolls. Connecticut voters have until noon on Monday to declare or change their affiliation at local registrar of voters' offices at town or city halls. (About 42 percent of voters in Connecticut are unaffiliated.)
 The women conversing at the Chef's Table were among two dozen people who were interviewed late last month in downtown Fairfield, a town of 58,000 that was named the best place to live in the Northeastern United States by Money Magazine in 2006. The primary is scheduled earlier than usual in Connecticut this year, turning it into a contest that will matter more in the national election picture.
 By the time of Connecticut's 2004 primary, Senator John Kerry had already emerged as the clear Democratic front-runner and the turnout was below 20 percent. This year, with Connecticut's primary so much earlier, officials hope to match or surpass the 43 percent turnout in the 2006 Democratic primary for the United States Senate seat sought by Ned M. Lamont and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman. 
 ''Every delegate matters with the contests unfolding the way they are in both parties,'' said Professor Gary L. Rose, chairman of the Department of Government and Politics at Sacred Heart University in Fairfield. ''Feb. 5 is a big day, and Connecticut is right in the middle of it.''
 The stakes loom largest for the winner of Connecticut's Republican primary, who will get all 30 delegates. The Democrats apportion delegates based on the percentage of votes each candidate gets.
 The candidates have been conducting their Connecticut campaigns with small rallies, phone banks and other efforts springing up across the state. In Fairfield, voters could have seen television campaign ads for Senator Barack Obama that emphasized his national health plan. In late January, Mrs. Clinton ran a 30-second television ad explaining her plan to revive the economy by halting home foreclosures, providing tax rebates for the middle class and creating new jobs. 
 The Fairfield Republican Town Committee is sponsoring a candidates' forum at 8 p.m. Monday at the Riverfield School. Steve Elworthy, the committee chairman, who has remained neutral in the race so far, said that the heated contest has been healthy for the democratic process.
 ''It's nice to have politics be fun again,'' he said. 
 Along Post Road in downtown Fairfield's commercial district, with its bronze statue of Mark Twain sitting on a bench across the street from chain stores like Borders, Victoria's Secret and Banana Republic, voters expressed widely divergent opinions about whom they wanted in the White House. 
 There was broad disagreement among Republicans, several of whom said they preferred the Democratic candidates over their own party's, while others had yet to settle on a favorite. Karen M. McGann, 52, of Bridgeport, a job recruiter for Associates of Westport, said she needed to learn more about the candidates before she voted. 
 Mary Kainetski, 83, of Bridgeport, said that she preferred someone with military experience to deal with the conflict in Iraq. She and her husband, Alex, 86, are backing John McCain. 
 ''He's honest, and he's a war hero,'' said Mrs. Kainetski, a retiree who was reading a cookbook in the cafe at Borders. ''We need someone with that kind of experience.''
 At the Las Vetas Lounge coffee shop, Nancy W. Tse, 61, of Redding, was sipping hot cider with her husband, Christopher. Now retired, they said they had spent several years living in Hong Kong, where Mrs. Tse was executive director of a trade association of chemical companies that do business in China. They returned to Fairfield County two years ago, and said they were upset with what they see as the United States' declining esteem in the world community since the Iraq war began. 
 A registered Republican, Mr. Tse said she will be sitting out the primary because not one of the Republicans appeals to her. She said that in the general election, she plans to vote for Mrs. Clinton. 
 ''The world works best when countries cooperate,'' said Mrs. Tse. ''I think Hillary has a good world view. I have a lot of faith in her, and identify with her. She's about my age, and I kind of grew up with her.''
 While Mrs. Tse said she felt connected to Mrs. Clinton, two recent college graduates sitting nearby, Andrew R. Seal and Matthew Bamberg-Johnson, both of New Haven, said they felt inspired by Mr. Obama's campaign. Mr. Seal, who works for an Internet marketing company, said that in 2004, while he was a student at Dartmouth College, he worked as a volunteer in the campaign of Howard B. Dean, who was seeking the Democratic nomination. He said that he saw in Mr. Dean a chance for fresh leadership in the party, and he said his hopes have been renewed with Mr. Obama's message of hope and reconciliation. 
 ''There has been such a sea change with Obama,'' said Mr. Seal, who volunteered at an Obama phone bank in New Haven. ''I'm seeing something worthwhile in political engagement.''
 Others, though, wondered whether the country would back a black man. 
 ''I just don't think Obama can win,'' said Myron H. Schlesinger, 76, of Trumbull, a retired school teacher. ''Our country is still racist.''
 Mr. Schlesigner said he is backing Mrs. Clinton, both because he likes her health proposals and because he thinks Senator Obama cannot win.
 Polls, which have been wrong about some early primaries this year, are showing Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain with double-digit leads in their respective Connecticut races. A poll released on Jan. 20 by the University of Connecticut Center for Survey Research and Analysis showed that among Democrats, Mrs. Clinton led with 41 percent, compared with 27 percent for Mr. Obama and 9 percent for Mr. Edwards, and 21 percent undecided. 
 Mr. McCain led the Republicans with 39 percent, followed by Mr. Giuliani, at 16 percent; Mr. Romney, at 11 percent; former Gov. Mike D. Huckabee of Arkansas, at 8 percent; Mr. Thompson, at 6 percent; Representative Ron E. Paul, of Texas, at 2 percent; and 17 percent undecided. The survey of 403 likely Democratic voters and 401 likely Republican voters, which was conducted by phone from Jan. 9 to 17, has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points, so differences of less than that amount are statistically insignificant. 
 Fairfield's top elected officials had also been divided about whom to support. Until Mr. Giuliani bowed out of the contest last week, John P. McKinney, a Republican and state Senate minority leader, had been heading his campaign here, while Representative Christopher Shays, the Bridgeport Republican who represents Fairfield and 15 other southeastern Connecticut municipalities, is co-chairman of Mr. McCain's campaign with Senator Lieberman, the former Democrat who left the party in 2006 and ran successfully as an independent. 
 Mr. Shays recalled that Mr. McCain won Connecticut in the 2000 primary against George W. Bush, despite the fact that Mr. Bush's grandfather, Prescott, had represented Connecticut in the United States Senate. 
 ''Connecticut is a centrist moderate state, and we respect independence a great deal,'' said Mr. Shays, who backed Mr. Bush in 2000. ''Voters here like straight shooters, and John McCain is a straight shooter.''
 Town Democrats are split too, especially after a favorite son, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, withdrew from the Democratic contest last month. State Representative Thomas J. Drew is backing Mrs. Clinton, while State Representatives Kim Fawcett and Tom Christiano and First Selectman Kenneth A. Flatto are backing Mr. Obama. 
 ''I'm already an inspired person, and he inspires me to a new level,'' said Mrs. Fawcett, 38, who is in her first term. ''I listen to his speeches on YouTube, and he makes me feel like I want to get up and be a better mom, a better state representative and a better activist in my community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DECIDED: Unlike some voters who were still mulling over choices, Myron H. Schlesinger of Trumbull, a retired school teacher, says he is backing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
WEIGHING IN: Above, from left, Lauren G. Price with her 3-year-old daughter, Caroline, and Cathy A. Antista. Middle, from left, Nancy W. Tse
 Ms. Antista and Lisa E. Stamboulidis. Below, from left, Andrew R. Seal and Matthew Bamberg-Johnson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY P. C. VEY)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOTTLED WATER (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BALLET (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); CHILDREN (72%); MAYORS (68%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (76%); MITT ROMNEY (76%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); TED KENNEDY (56%); GEORGE H W BUSH (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



79 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Feel the Lure of Celebrity Cash

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER; Griff Palmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
They make their fortunes engineering the world's biggest deals or making hearts swoon in movie houses and concert halls. But inside their storied prewar East Side town houses and palatial downtown lofts, members of the city's power elite are grappling with the same question as the rest of the nation: Who should next occupy the White House?
 Of course, the rivers of money that flow from Wall Street and Hollywood mean they can offer far more than a single vote. 
 Through the end of last year, the metropolitan region contributed more than $80 million to presidential aspirants. New York's singers, actors, literary lights and plutocrats wrote checks across party lines, in some cases covering their bets by running the table of candidates. 
 The movie heartthrob Mark Ruffalo threw some of his indie cred -- and $1,000 -- to two candidates who never made it to the mainstream, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio and former Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska. Jay McInerney, famed novelist of '80s excesses, favored the native crowd: He and his wife, the heiress Anne Hearst McInerney, gave to the campaigns of both former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 From his new Frank Gehry-designed building in Chelsea, Barry Diller, chief executive of IAC/InterActiveCorp, gave to the campaigns of Senator Barack Obama, Mrs. Clinton, Senator John McCain and Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.
 This election year, Manhattan's cultural elite has opened its pocketbooks, and homes, to the men and woman they hope to send to Washington.
 Though the metropolitan area accounts for roughly 6 percent of the nation's population, its residents have so far served up contributions that total 20 percent of the money raised by all presidential candidates, according to federal campaign contribution records. It's because of those sorts of numbers that the city is known in politics more for dollars than delegates.
 ''You come here because there is more money on any stretch of Park Avenue from 59th Street to 96th Street than there is in most countries in the world,'' said the political consultant Hank Sheinkopf. ''In two hours you can assemble people in one room of one apartment from every major sector of the economy and the cultural world, all of whom have interest in what occurs in government.''
 Democrats have raised a slightly larger portion of their total take from the area. But the second-place medal is still gold plated: Republicans raised $28.4 million here, more than the party's total in 31 states. Democrats have raised $52.3 million.
 Contributions from donors in finance, insurance and real estate accounted for nearly half of the money presidential candidates collected through September in the metropolitan region, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan campaign finance research group based in Washington. 
 The list includes icons of finance including Carl C. Icahn, a Giuliani donor, and Henry R. Kravis, who gave to Mr. McCain's campaign. 
 With contribution limits of $4,600 to each candidate, many metro households can match the donation prowess of the city's titanic earners. A public school teacher from Baldwin, on Long Island, donated $2,300 to Mr. Obama's campaign -- more than the $2,100 contribution to the Obama campaign made by George Soros, the legendary financier and billionaire.
 But those limits also make it easy for the extremely wealthy to avoid betting on just one candidate -- or even party.
 Lawrence A. Sucharow, a lawyer who specializes in large securities class-action cases, has given a total of $10,150 to the campaigns of six candidates from both parties: Fred D. Thompson, John Edwards, Gov. Bill Richardson, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Mr. Biden and Mrs. Clinton.
 David S. Mack, a New Jersey real estate developer and vice chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, gave to five candidates: $4,600 each to Mr. Biden and Mrs. Clinton, and $2,300 each to Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Thompson and Mitt Romney.
 Giving to four candidates across party lines has become almost ordinary among the limousine set. John Catsimatidis, who owns the Gristedes supermarket chain, gave to the Biden, Dodd, Clinton and Giuliani campaigns. Richard S. Fuld Jr., chairman and chief executive of Lehman Brothers, gave to the Dodd, McCain, Clinton and Obama campaigns.
 Then there are the hedge fund managers, men with wealth and power enough to blow around the currencies of a small country. Paul Tudor Jones, one of the world's wealthiest hedge fund managers, gave to the Giuliani, McCain, Romney and Obama organizations.
 Donald Trump gave $600 to the Clinton campaign. But his son Donald Jr. gave to both Mrs. Clinton and to Mr. Giuliani, as did his wife, the model Melania Trump. 
 Others hew closely to a single party, while still spreading their wealth. 
 Agnes Gund, president emerita of the Museum of Modern Art, gave to the Edwards, Richardson, Clinton and Obama campaigns, as did the actress and former talk show host Rosie O'Donnell.
 On the Republican side, Jay Cross, president of the New York Jets, donated to the campaigns of Mr. McCain, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney. So did Donald M. Kendall, the retired chairman and chief executive of PepsiCo.
 Mr. Sheinkopf said people across the country who give to multiple campaigns often hope for special protection of their business interests, or for heightened access, or for favors later. 
 But, in his experience, Mr. Sheinkopf said, for a few well-heeled New Yorkers, the check writing is almost a sport.
 ''That is unique to New York,'' Mr. Sheinkopf said. ''You have a whole group of people who write checks and for whom that is the significant act.''
 Given the presence of a woman, an African-American and a Mormon among the candidates, the pull of what is often called identity politics may be stronger in this election.
 The film actors Morgan Freeman and Eddie Murphy, along with the Broadway actress LaChanze, have all supported Mr. Obama's campaign. Lisa Hopkins, a singer who was a member of the Tony award-winning cast of ''La Boheme'' and was raised a Mormon, contributed to Mr. Romney's campaign.
 Letty Cottin Pogrebin, a prominent feminist, author and co-founder of Ms. Magazine, and her daughter Abigail, a writer who often speaks in public with her mother, are starkly divided between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama.
 The mother sees Mrs. Clinton's candidacy as a seminal moment in the nation's history, with a woman of integrity, ability and seasoning ready to steer the nation toward a period of redemption. The daughter doesn't quibble with that assessment, but she has seen in Mr. Obama a ''clarity and authenticity'' that led her to get involved in politics for the first time in her 42 years. 
 Abigail Pogrebin found the breach with her mother more difficult that she would have expected, but she believes so deeply in her choice that she continues to ask acquaintances for money, something she never imagined herself doing before.
 ''I don't feel like it's a hard phone call to make or a hard e-mail to write, because I really believe in him,'' Ms. Pogrebin said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: NEW YORK BANKROLLS PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS: New York is one of the deepest wells for presidential campaign donations, and the city's rich and famous have been active in financing the candidates. (Source: Federal Election Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); CELEBRITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (88%); POLITICS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MAYORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); WRITERS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (67%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (67%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); MIKE GRAVEL (55%); FRANK GEHRY (50%); BARRY DILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



80 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: As Primary Nears, Voters Critique Field

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES

 BODY:
NEVER mind that the race for the presidential nomination in both parties was still as rich and compelling -- not to mention wide open -- as it has been in memory. Never mind that the field of candidates was deep and diverse and that voters interviewed here in Union County would be called upon to cast their lot for one of them earlier in the race than ever before.
 When Greg Kail -- a registered Democrat who voted for George W. Bush in the last two elections -- was asked on a recent weekday in Elizabeth whom he was throwing his support behind, he folded his arms and grimaced like a toddler who had been offered liver for dessert. Then, Mr. Kail, 57, took a sip from a Diet Coke and said: ''I'm waiting. I just haven't heard anything that makes anyone stand out from the crowd.''
 Putting off making a firm commitment to any candidate until the last minute was a running theme during interviews with more than two dozen Union County voters in Elizabeth, the county's largest city, with mostly Democratic voters, and in Summit, an affluent suburb about a half-hour's drive west, where registered Republicans outnumber registered Democrats. 
 ''Our voters are notoriously late deciders,'' said Ingrid W. Reed, of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. ''What you're finding is similar to what people are seeing at the national level: Unless you're committed to a particular candidate because of your affiliation, a lot of people are saying, 'I'll wait.' '' 
 But with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina giving up their bids for their party nominations last week, some New Jersey voters have found that their tough decisions have largely been made for them. 
 In Summit, a bedroom suburb for many people who work on Wall Street, Mr. Giuliani enjoyed strong support among Republican voters, according to Mary Ogden, chairwoman of the Summit Republican City Committee. 
 ''This was Giuliani country,'' she said on the day after the Florida primary where Mr. Giuliani's poor showing led him to end his bid for the Republican presidential nomination. 
 Although Mr. Giuliani has thrown his support to Senator John McCain of Arizona, Ms. Ogden said she wasn't sure if Mr. Giuliani's supporters would easily line up behind Mr. McCain. 
 ''That has yet to be seen,'' she said. ''I know that there is a strong segment of people who like McCain, but it is too early to tell.''
 She said that even though Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, hasn't given much attention to the area, he might gain some support now. ''It is going to be very interesting to see what happens in New Jersey,'' she said.
 But some former Giuliani supporters in Summit, like Suzanne J. Currie, 56, a managing director at the Wall Street firm Dominick & Dominick, had already identified her Plan B candidate. ''McCain,'' she said. ''I'm not one of those trendies that say vote for the person. I vote for the Republican ideals.''
 Ms. Currie said she belonged to ''the A.B.C. crowd.'' 
 ''Anyone but Clinton,'' she explained.
 While some of the voters interviewed said they were still undecided, they did acknowledge leaning toward a particular candidate when nudged. 
 Mary Nicoson, 65, a Democrat from Elizabeth who voted with the party in the last two presidential elections, said of her decision for Tuesday: ''It's really a toss-up. I don't think anything is set in concrete.'' 
 Looking up from a local paper she was reading while having lunch at a diner in Elizabeth, Ms. Nicoson said that she was leaning toward supporting Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, largely because of her outlook on overhauling health insurance.
 She said that she was also impressed with Mrs. Clinton's attitude. That said, she added that she would consider voting Republican in November, if Mr. McCain was the nominee. 
 ''They have strong personalities, you know?'' Ms. Nicoson said. ''This job, it's not for the faint-hearted.''
 While many of the voters interviewed focused on the candidates' character, they also raised concerns about two of the main issues -- the war on terrorism and the mortgage crisis that has shaken the economy. These are concerns that resonate deeply in New Jersey, where so many cities and towns lost residents in the Sept. 11 attacks and where homeowners pay, on average, the highest property taxes in the nation.
 Union County is, in many ways, a snapshot of much of New Jersey and all its cultural, social, economic and political variety. Elizabeth, with a population of 120,000, is an archetype of the state's large cities; Summit, the smallest city in the county, is Elizabeth's civic doppelganger -- but with a greater number of manicured lawns. 
 Elizabeth's working-class mind-set is a byproduct of the Elizabeth Marine Terminal just off Newark Bay, which is the dominant industry in the city. Nearly half of its residents cited Hispanic ancestry in the last census, and the per capita income of $15,000 -- which is $6,000 below the national average -- ranks Elizabeth among the poorest cities in the state. As in most New Jersey cities, Democrats have a decided edge in the number of registered voters, outnumbering Republicans by nearly 10 to 1.
 Summit, 16 miles and a world removed from Elizabeth, could be any number of suburban towns with sturdy Colonials and maple tree-lined streets. Nearly 90 percent of its 21,000 residents are white, the per capita income of $63,000 is about $40,000 more than the national average and it has more registered Republicans (3,100) than Democrats (2,300).
 But for all their differences, the residents who live and work in the communities share many of the same hopes, anxieties and indecision as Super Tuesday approaches.
 At the Summit Diner, Ed Schwarz and Rick Staenberg proposed bridging the Clinton-Obama divide by putting them on the same ticket. 
 ''That's our dream ticket,'' said Mr. Staenberg, 59, who is an Independent, as he sat in a booth with Mr. Schwarz, who is a Democrat. ''Our society is almost ready for it.''
 Tony Rivera, another patron at the Summit Diner, is looking for a different kind of change. Mr. Rivera, who is 40 and describes himself as a conservative Republican, said that none of the Republican candidates appealed to him and that he was looking for a throwback to emerge. 
 ''I'm hoping for another Ronald Reagan,'' he said. 
 Mr. Kail, the diet soda-sipping Democrat at Martin's Diner in Elizabeth, said that he might not make up his mind until the last minute. Yet he acknowledged that he was leaning toward supporting Senator Barack Obama of Illinois. 
 He said he was drawn to Mr. Obama's message of hope but, like Ms. Nicoson, he also admired Mr. McCain. He said that the would have a hard time in November choosing between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain in a general election. 
 ''I like them because they don't pull any punches and they both have a message of hope,'' Mr. Kail said.
 Sitting at the diner's counter, Joe Anderson, another Elizabeth Democrat, said he had narrowed his choices to Senators Clinton and Obama but was leaning toward Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Anderson, who is 53 and voted for President Bush in the last two elections, said the deciding factor might be which candidate offered a shift from what he sees as business as usual in Washington. 
 ''It's about change, period,'' said Mr. Anderson, who works at the Sheraton Hotel in Elizabeth. ''If Obama got in there, it wouldn't be politics as usual.''
 All the discussion of health care and the economy wears a bit on Joyce Chiu, the manager at Martin's Diner, who said that political talk seemed to dominate discussion here lately and that the opinions were as varied as the menu.
 A regular patron, Christina Horne, who is 33, lives in Elizabeth and works for the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission, said she was firmly behind her chosen candidate.
 ''Clinton,'' said Ms. Horne, setting aside an Avon catalog. ''She's got a lot of good plans, in general. And she's a woman. I think more women need to be noticed.''
 Ms. Horne said her vote would be as much a statement for her gender as anything else. But, she added, Mrs. Clinton had experience that none of the other candidates had, having already lived in the White House.
 ''She's got a good record,'' she said, making clear that she counted President Clinton's accomplishments as Senator Clinton's. 
 In Summit, Andrew Smith, a Republican, said that he believed that Mr. McCain is the most electable candidate in the Republican field.
 ''I think he's the best candidate and the most courageous,'' said Mr. Smith, who is 33 and works as a lawyer. ''And when I say he has courage, I'm not just talking about P.O.W. courage. He also has political courage.''
 Still other Republicans in Summit continue to press for their candidates, including Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor. 
 Last Tuesday night, Peter Kane, a manager at a Manhattan bank, was on his cellphone talking about a presentation he was about to make in Monmouth County on behalf of Mr. Huckabee. He said that he was so impressed with him that he volunteered to help the campaign.
 ''What I'm going to say to them is that Governor Huckabee has strong moral leadership,'' Mr. Kane said. ''He's strong and he is sincere and he'll tell you what he believes -- whether it's something you agree with or not.''
 But in a race where even nationally known figures like Mr. Giuliani have been forced out, Mr. Kane acknowledged that Mr. Huckabee had more than his share of work ahead of him to gain significant traction. He said, however, that the number of Republicans who had yet to commit to a candidate -- particularly in light of Mr. Giuliani's withdrawal -- could create an opening for Mr. Huckabee.
 Should Mr. Huckabee come up short, Mr. Kane said that he, too, would join the ranks of undecided voters who populate New Jersey -- but only briefly.
 ''I'm a good Republican,'' he said. ''I'm going to stand behind the party.''
 If only all the decisions could be that simple come Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CASTING HIS LOT: Tony Rivera of Garfield, a guitar teacher and performer.
HAVING THEIR SAY: Above, in Martin's Diner, Joe Anderson, an Elizabeth Democrat. Middle from left, Greg Kail, a registered Democrat
 Ed Schwarz, at left, and Rick Staenberg, outside the Summit Diner. Below, Christina Horne, who lives in Elizabeth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY IVY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY P. C. VEY)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



81 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GROUND LEVEL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: From Irrelevance to Influence Under New Voting Calendar

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
With the wash comes the election.
 Such is the trade-off at the Suds N Spin Laundromat, wedged into a nondescript strip mall in Garfield, a dense northern New Jersey suburb of about 30,000 named for the slain 20th president. 
 Amid the thumping machines, Cathy Hoffmann, 51, who works the desk, was pepped up because her state was about to emerge from political invisibility. ''This year, maybe I'm going to make a difference,'' Ms. Hoffmann said, even as many washer-stuffing customers seemed blase about being integral to a potentially transformative election.
 In New Jersey, presidential primaries used to arrive in June as useless afterthoughts and affirmations of the obvious, except in 1980, when the Democratic choice was Senator Edward M. Kennedy over Jimmy Carter. That was one of those striking interludes when the state actually seemed to matter. This year, New Jersey -- along with Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts -- will figure more actively in choosing a winner between the remaining Democratic and Republican candidates. 
 As it happens, though, many residents were in a fog about the date change. ''I just found out on Channel 12 news not long ago that we didn't count before,'' Ms. Hoffmann said. ''That's ridiculous. You assume you vote, you count.'' 
 She felt retroactively cheated. 
 She said the vote on Tuesday was important to her because of the ''stupid, useless war'' and health insurance, of which she had none. She lost her Medicaid benefit when she received a pay raise. She had heart problems but stopped two medications because she said she could not afford them. 
 Despite the pugilistic races in both the Democratic and Republican primaries -- Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and John McCain were leading the latest state polls but there were plenty of insults to go -- the amplitude of excitement in Garfield seemed inconsistent and often muted. When a news program appeared on the laundromat's ceiling-mounted television, people were hardly transfixed by the torrent of political chatter. 
 ''I hear comments like, 'Whoever wins, I'm going to lose.' Or stuff like, 'He's got a big mouth, she's got a big mouth,' '' Ms. Hoffmann said.
 Ms. Hoffmann's daughter, Kayla, 16, and her son, Dustin, 25, are politically listless. ''They're like, 'What do we care?' '' she said. 
 Dustin works at the Dunkin' Donuts and won some provisional fame for thwarting a recent robbery by clobbering the thief with a ceramic cup. ''And yet, he's like, 'I can't change anything,' '' Ms. Hoffmann said.
 Not far away at the Sportsman's Tavern, all the bar stools were occupied, and no one wanted to talk about the election; too much of a downer. But Philip Hitchuk, 59, who was leaving the A&P with his Sunday groceries, was of a different mind: ''This is an important election. Somebody is going to have to pick up the reins and make this country go again.'' 
 In the small village of Owego in upstate New York, where ribbons of ice sparkled in the Susquehanna River and the wind was whipping around, it seemed a good idea to consult the Old Coot.
 He answered his door at 351 Front St., a lanky man with a beard and a soft smile, 65. Retired from marketing work with the local utility company, he writes a column called Old Coot for the local newspaper. He has postulated on ladders leaning against houses, how squirrels can swim and how ''Duh'' is the most useful three-letter word in the English language. He drives the community ambulance twice a week. 
 His name is Merlin William Lessler, and, yes, indeed, he was engaged by the state's delegate-rich election. 
 ''I've been watching it very closely,'' Mr. Lessler said. ''Though I've watched no debates. I was in marketing too long. I know what professional lying is about.''
 Independent-minded in an area thick with Republicans, Mr. Lessler is merrily unsure who will collect his vote. 
 ''I'm a pocketbook guy,'' he said. ''I'm looking for someone who will say he'll veto every bill and not raise taxes and enact no new regulations and leave me alone and just be a cheerleader.''
 Around him, opinions swirled and reconfigured, many unsettled votes. One daughter wants Mrs. Clinton. His sister hates Mrs. Clinton. His wife, in the other room, refused to utter a word. 
 ''Across the street, there was a Hillary sign on the lawn last week,'' Mr. Lessler said. ''Now there's an Obama sign.''
 Tioga County, which surrounds the village, went heavily for George W. Bush in the last two elections, but Democrats are basking, confident of glory. On Tuesday, local Democrats will assemble at the Tioga Trails Cafe to study the election returns on a 15-foot screen adjacent to the area where contredanses are held. A promotional flier implores: ''Vote or liberty is history.'' 
 George and April Swaney own the place. ''I've got a shrine to Hillary in our home,'' Mrs. Swaney said, cautioning that she likes Senator Barack Obama, too.
 John Edwards had been Mr. Swaney's choice, he said. His wife shot him a piercing stare: ''I thought you were an Obama fan? This is news.''
 Across the street, Tom O'Hara, 62, was sullen. He was getting ready to open his bar, O'Hara's, and was pondering his irrelevance, a Republican man pummeled by a Republican backlash.
 ''Did the Republicans do too many wrong things?'' Mr. O'Hara said. ''Oh yes, they did. I'm upset with George Bush. He gave away more money than the Democrats. I'm very concerned about immigration. Don't tell me everyone should come in here and pick my fruits.''
 He said he did not know if he would even bother to vote. None of the candidates stir him. ''They don't have the fight,'' he said.
 Anyway, he said he thought the race was sewn up. ''We think we know who will win: Bill and Hillary, and Bill will be in charge of the White House. I'm very unhappy about that. And I feel powerless.'' 
 In the throat of Manhattan, election interest was much more palpable on a stroll through the Empire State Building, teeming with compressed-space businesses. On the 33rd floor, inside the European School of Economics, Carla Visser, the director of career services, said, ''I used to be very bored with the elections. It was same-o, same-o, so what.'' But she said that Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton had invigorated her and left her torn ''going down to the wire'' on whom to pick. 
 ''We're living in historical times, and I'm overwhelmed by it,'' Ms. Visser said. ''In the past, I paid more attention to what was happening in France than I did here.'' 
 Down the hall, Lewis Okser, 60, who operates ZLNX, a business consulting firm focused on China, was talking up Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Okser had raised money for her in his Brooklyn home. ''The candidates on the Republican side don't have any new ideas,'' he said. 
 Mr. Okser is often in Shanghai. ''In restaurants and offices there, you see pictures of the Clintons,'' he said. ''They're very respected.'' 
 The big day nears, and people will be galvanized to pull a lever and try to shape history by issues large and minute -- the war, immigration, gay rights, automobile air fresheners. 
 The owner of Jenray Products, Raymond D'Urso, 45, makes odor maskers for cars in a compact factory in Yonkers. Not the pine tree ones -- the dreaded competition -- but some with smiley faces and slogans like Proud to be Italian and Support Our Troops. There are more than 250 freshener renditions, and it has to be moderately irksome that his wife hangs an American flag version void of scent, because, well, smells get to her.
 The economy worries Mr. D'Urso, whose car-freshener revenues are in retreat. The bulk of his sales are through car washes, and when the economy slackens people wash their Explorers less often and thus, no exposure. As Mr. D'Urso put it, ''Nobody says, 'Oh man, I need an air freshener for the car.' ''
 And so of course, he said, he and his wife were stirred up about the election. He is Republican-leaning but was not yet sure of his candidate. ''I want the right person there, and the one I can trust the most,'' he said. ''It's hard to trust any politician. I care what's going to happen to me. I'm one of the few people manufacturing anything in this country anymore.''
 Thinking out loud, Mr. D'Urso said maybe he would go with John McCain. He rolled that notion around to see how it fit. Yes, he said, John McCain might be the one with the big vision the country needs to keep our cars smelling sweet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Front Street in Owego, N.Y., reflected in the window of a store with a poster for a book about Belva Lockwood, an advocate for women's rights who was born in upstate New York.
Merlin William Lessler writes a column called Old Coot for the local newspaper in Owego, N.Y.
Carla Visser, who works in New York, said she was torn between Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
Raymond D'Urso, whose company in Yonkers makes air fresheners for cars, is worried about the sluggish economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) INFOBOX: DELEGATES AT STAKE: CONNECTICUT
MASSACHUSETTS
NEW JERSEY
 NEW YORK (INFOBOX BY CATE DOTY AND KATIE ZEZIMA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICAID (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ROBBERY (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (61%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (61%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (61%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



82 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
The Education of Ben Bernanke
 Roger Lowenstein's article (Jan. 20) was extremely informative about the evolution of Ben Bernanke's philosophical and scientific approach to Fed policy. Lowenstein says that when Bernanke took over as Fed chairman, he ''knew more about central banking than any economist alive.'' A troubling contradiction arises, however, when Lowenstein asserts that, although Bernanke ''knew the experience of the 1930s in his sleep, he was, in truth, unfamiliar with the exotic mortgage instruments that were failing now.''
 The Fed chairman claims to have ''failed to foresee that the sudden rise in homeowner defaults . . . would have such far-reaching effects.'' 
 But to believe that Bernanke, with access to exponentially more insider information than most of us, as well as a deep knowledge of history, failed to see that they could have far-reaching effects seems unlikely. 
 The real question is why he didn't say anything. By remaining silent, he allowed a bad situation to get much, much worse. It's possible the investment banks were not forthcoming about the extent of their practice of bundling subprime junk with more secure prime loans into exotic derivatives instruments, expanding the damage even further. If Bernanke was misled in that regard, he has good reason to be mad and should be condemning the lack of fiduciary responsibility of everyone involved and arguing for long-overdue regulation of a derivatives market run amok. Instead, he is bailing the gamblers out as much as he can, with more cheap money, to help them pay for their shenanigans. Perhaps because he knows the Fed is also partly to blame. JOSEPH URLA
 New York
 Lowenstein's article was superb, but I have a caution about the suggestion that the Taylor Rule ''has downsized'' the chairman's job to some extent. In real time, using the Taylor Rule requires estimating a statistic that is purely conjectural -- the current value of the ''output gap'' between actual and potential gross domestic product. In real time, we have a pretty good estimate of actual G.D.P., but the level and rate of growth of potential G.D.P. are projections. 
 The main reason the economy performed so well in the late 1990s was that the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, mistrusted the consensus estimates of potential output and determined that higher growth and lower unemployment rates than the consensus predicted could be achieved without causing a rise in inflation. Using the Taylor Rule requires deep insight into productivity and labor and product markets. It's not a downsized job.
 CORNELIA STRAWSER
 Washington
 A Cutting Tradition
 The seven images that accompany Sara Corbett's article (Jan. 20) depict a culturally sanctioned practice in Indonesia of female genital mutilation. Aside from the single photo of the child in severe pain, the pictures show female attendants preparing to deform young girls in an environment of care and concern, mothers trying to soothe their fearful daughters and, finally, the face of a serene-looking child, who has apparently recovered from her acute pain and is accepting of her mutilation. 
 The message seems to be that the non-Islamic world must not judge female genital mutilation. Has cultural relativism brought us to this point? Had a photo been shown of the girl's mutilated genitalia, instead of her tears, the essay would have been harder to tolerate. JUDY BLOCK
 Westport, Conn.
 Thank you for publishing these photographs. It is one thing to read about female genital mutilation, but the pictures really helped to convey the banality of this ongoing evil.
 KRISTEN LEWIS
 South Windsor, Conn.
 Of all the crimes against women, this may be the worst -- inflicted by other women, in a place of learning, with a backdrop of prayer, for the sole purpose of taming normal human function by mutilation. It is no comfort to learn that doctors have shunned the surgery, when armies of lay people are permitted to carry out the brutal cutting in public ceremonies. LOUISE PHILLIPS
 Staten Island
 Corbett's article, which deals with female genital mutilation in Indonesia, refers repeatedly to these inhumane acts as ''female circumcision.'' Until we stop using euphemistic expressions like this to describe torture that takes away women's sexuality, this practice can go on unbridled. JANN MATLOCK
 Paris
 ''Circumcision,'' or cutting around, describes the exact opposite of the cutting off of sexual organs described in the article. You are validating this practice by relating it to male circumcision. PAUL VINGER
 New York
 At the end of the article, it is suggested that we not judge too harshly the mothers who continue to perpetuate this practice on their daughters as a part of their cultural heritage. I agree. The men in these cultures, however, should get no such consideration. It has long been clear that female genital mutilation is about male reproductive and sexual control, and men have been successful for centuries at brainwashing their wives and daughters into thinking this is a positive practice.
 THE REV. DR. JOHN YOEGEL
 New Fairfield, Conn.
 Art in the Age of Franchising
 Virginia Heffernan's column (The Medium, Jan. 20) suggests that the critically acclaimed ''Friday Night Lights'' receives poor ratings because the series doesn't lend itself to franchising, but she's confusing cause and effect. Great ratings lead to spinoff properties, they don't follow them; if the show were a hit, NBC would certainly look for ways to capitalize on that. TED CHIANG
 Bellevue, Wash.
 Consumer Man
 I could relate to Paul Mecurio's Lives column (Jan. 13). I was ''consumer woman'' before my daughter changed my life. 
 It all started with a visit to a computer store, where we had been told on several occasions that we were at the top of the list to receive a back-ordered laptop. We discovered that the laptops were still back-ordered and that we were not even on the list. My daughter reacted with understanding (''it happens''); she smiled and spoke calmly. Unbelievably, as we were leaving, the manager called us back, having just ''found'' a laptop in the stockroom. I am positive that the only reason he ''found'' the laptop was because of my daughter's attitude. 
 Armed with this evidence, I decided to follow my daughter's example. I don't always get better service -- but I always feel really good, even when I am not treated the way I think I should be.
 GAIL BOGOSSIAN
 West Hartford, Conn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIGEL PARRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



83 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: Back-Room Choices

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Billionaires, Bloggers and the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

 BODY:
This Tuesday was designed to be the day when it all gets decided for Democrats and Republicans, the moment when more than 20 states weigh in at once on the chaotic presidential campaigns. In the Democratic field, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are each hoping to pile up a decisive number of delegates and end in one night what has been a protracted and increasingly unkind competition. If the Democratic voters defy the designs of the party, though, and neither candidate can achieve a clear verdict, the battle will then enter a rare and little-understood phase: the scramble for superdelegates. These are the roughly 800 Democratic Party insiders -- elected officials, state chairmen, national committee members -- who will make up about a fifth of the total delegate count at the convention and who can vote for any candidate they want, regardless of what the voters in primaries and caucuses have said. Superdelegates were invented by the Democrats after the 1980 election in the expectation that in any future close nomination race, they would line up behind the establishment candidate and head off the possibility of a ruinous floor fight at the convention. 
 I recently got a short history lesson about this from Gary Hart, who pointed out what he called ''eerie parallels'' between his near-upset of Walter Mondale in 1984 and Obama's campaign against Clinton. Not least among them was that Clinton had actually gone back and unearthed Mondale's signature line: ''Where's the beef?'' (It came from a Wendy's commercial that was all the rage at the time, but it's doubtful that anyone under 30 had any idea what she was talking about.) Hart reminded me that by beating Mondale in the California primary, just weeks before the convention, he denied the former vice president the delegates he needed for the nomination. Had it not been for the existence of the superdelegates, who lined up behind Mondale, Hart could actually have swiped the nomination.
 ''Lee and I called every one of the superdelegates personally,'' Hart recalled, referring to his wife. ''She talked to a woman in Kentucky who said: 'I want to vote for your husband, but my husband works for the state highway department. And I was told that if I didn't vote for Mondale, he would lose his job.' It was hardball at that point.''
 If a similar drama unfolds this year, though, the outcome might not be the foregone conclusion that it was then. All of American society, including our politics, has changed in the last 24 years, with the continued decline of centralized institutions. Blind loyalty to organizations has been replaced by a kind of skeptical free agency. If you needed an insurance policy in 1984, you probably called the agent who had been with your family for years; now, as with so much else, you go online and find the lowest price in the time it would take to file your nails. As Obama found out in Nevada, where he won the endorsement of the Culinary Workers Union but lost a lot of its members' votes, even union workers, once considered a monolithic bloc, no longer blindly follow their leaders' dictates, preferring instead to choose for themselves. 
 In this new world, who is to say that the party's superdelegates would still vote as the reliable instruments of the Democratic establishment? And even if they did, who is to say that other Democrats would tolerate a nomination brokered by a bunch of insiders? In the blog age, such events would likely turn the party upside down.
 There is a more fundamental way in which the comparison with 1984 underscores a transition taking place in American life. Hart, who was 47 then, was one of the first politicians reared in the years after the Great Depression to come pounding on the clubhouse door of an entrenched generation. Having been born almost a decade before American soldiers returned from Italy and Iwo Jima, Hart wasn't technically a baby boomer, but he had been shaped more by Selma and Saigon than by Pearl Harbor, and his were the voters raised on ''Abbey Road.'' The shorting-out of his electrifying campaign against the party establishment -- along with its brief but tragic sequel four years later, ended by allegations of adultery -- presaged all that came next in American politics: trivialization and scandal, the politicizing of personal lives, the hardening of cultural divisions that had their origins on campuses like Berkeley and Kent State.
 Win or lose, Obama represents the next generational incursion. He is, by definition, a late boomer, having made the cutoff by about three years, but temperamentally he belongs to what the writer Douglas Coupland branded Generation X, the first wave of Americans to come of age politically after Watergate. He was 6 when Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert Kennedy were assassinated; 14 when ''Saturday Night Live'' first came on the air; 19 when Ronald Reagan was elected president. For those of us Obama's age and younger, the formative events of the 1960s, the enmities and shared experiences that defined the next 40 years of American politics, are as much a part of history as the Treaty of Versailles; we weren't shaped by this constant sense of political Armageddon. (Perhaps this is the underlying reason that Obama's recent comments about Reagan as a transformational president -- comments similar to those once made by Bill Clinton himself -- proved so easily exploited by the Clinton camp; Obama wasn't around, politically, for that era, and this lack of shared experience very likely bothers a lot of older Democrats more than his lack of actual governing experience.)
 Obama's emergence as a serious contender for the nomination has been framed, in historic terms, as a racial marker, but it also signals the beginning of the end of what history may record as a fruitless political era. We may have another boomer president in 2009, and maybe even another after that. (Four years after Hart first ran, after all, the country elected the last of the World War II veterans, George H. W. Bush.) But from here on out, as it did after Hart's campaign, the balance will shift until ultimately the ''Top Gun'' generation has pushed aside the boomer establishment. Viewed through this prism, the talk about superdelegates has an almost poetic cadence to it. How fitting it would be if 24 years after Mondale called in his party chits to hold off the onslaught of younger Democrats, the Clintons were compelled to do the same.
 Perhaps this sense of valediction explains why the Democratic candidates have spent so much time looking back to where their journey began. For a week after the New Hampshire primary, the party's leading candidates and some of their most important constituencies bickered over who was more responsible for civil rights legislation: Martin Luther King Jr. or Lyndon Johnson. The argument over who did what in 1964, however, was on a deeper level about how you effect broad societal change -- and why this generation of Democrats has found it so elusive. In the 40 years since Johnson left office, Democrats in Congress and the White House have repeatedly tried to build on the sweeping accomplishments of his Great Society and have, with few exceptions, been thwarted. Given the political climate in the country, the next president, if he or she is a Democrat, could inherit the best opportunity since Johnson to pass landmark legislation, and the foremost issue in the campaign is how to prevent that chance from slipping away once more. 
 The debate echoes the inside-outside conflict that so many '60s-era activists ultimately had to confront in their own careers. Clinton has argued throughout the winter that the only way to at last realize the ambitions of her generation is to work at the system feverishly and from the inside, to pull all the knobs and levers of government with Johnsonian expertise. John Edwards, whose campaign seemed to lose its viability after a distant third-place finish in the Nevada caucuses, took up the classic outsider's stance, insisting that a president had to confront corporate America and obstructionist forces in Washington. And then there's Obama, who says the answer lies not in how you work the system but in how thoroughly you transform the stale culture surrounding it -- in this idea that the boomers failed to redeem their promise because they could never really see their way past the quarrels of their youth.
 The same generational indictment could certainly be leveled against the Republicans as well. These candidates -- who are, minus the aged John McCain, boomers or near-boomers -- promise a return to the heyday of the '80s with such single-minded persistence that no less a Reagan worshiper than Newt Gingrich finds it exasperating. ''Can you imagine Ronald Reagan in 1980 campaigning on the promise to restore Dwight Eisenhower?'' Gingrich asked me when I spoke with him recently. In a new book, ''Real Change,'' Gingrich argues that both parties are mired in a pre-Internet mind-set. ''What really has to happen,'' he told me, ''is that someone has to come along who intuits the necessary requirements for success in this generation and who articulates it with the language and technology of this generation.'' 
 In a way, it is precisely this lingering adherence to Reaganism that makes the Republican candidates so implausible to many of the party's own voters. Reagan's ideology, after all, was devised at a time when Republicans hardly governed anything; it was the basis for a movement, not a majority. Over the last two decades, as Republicans have enjoyed far greater electoral success, they have also run up against the limits of modern conservative theory, the practical barriers to enacting a rigid ideological solution. It is little wonder that Mike Huckabee finds himself assailed now for raising taxes, or that Rudy Giuliani has to answer for his mayoral spending, or that Mitt Romney had to change his positions on gay rights and other issues. These Republicans actually had to govern, and what they found is that successful governing doesn't lend itself to the inflexible theologies of a cause. (Reagan himself experienced the same thing, resorting to tax hikes as governor of California.) We are witnessing, in a sense, the closing act of those middle-aged Republicans who swooned for Goldwater and deified Reagan; they are left now to survey the sprawling wreckage of the conservative governing model, powerless to defend their own concessions to reality or to articulate any notion of how to adapt.
 None of us know where politics is headed after this campaign, as one American moment passes and another begins. John Kennedy ushered in the generation of American leaders born after 1900, and his short presidency made possible a prolonged progressive era and, ultimately, the Reaganesque reaction to it. Gary Hart imploded, but his generational rebellion against liberal orthodoxy and his embrace of a modern economy -- Hart and his brethren were known as the ''Atari Democrats'' -- led directly to Clintonism. Similarly, even should Obama fail, he will be followed by reinforcements in both parties, an invading army of Gen-Xers who grew up amid the bitterness and polarity of boomer politics but who never quite understood why. It may take four years, or another four after that, but the door is now ajar. And history tells you that all the delegates in the world -- super or not -- won't be able to slam it shut. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH GIBSON)
 CHART: GENERATION GAP: Ages of the major-party presidential candidates, 1984-2004 (CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); SUPERDELEGATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



84 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart: The New Washington

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
OBAMA, Clinton, McCain, Romney ... Wal-Mart?
 The nation's largest private employer sure sounds like it's running for president these days. 
 It's making sweeping commitments to reduce America's energy use and improve its health care system. It's obsessively polling voters, boasting of a higher favorability rating than Congress. It's even touting an ''economic stimulus plan for American shoppers'' in the form of steep price cuts made last week. (Four 12-packs of Pepsi? $10.)
 That last one may be slightly tongue in cheek -- even discount retailers have a sense of humor -- but the bigger message is not: after years of running afoul of the United States government on labor and environmental issues, Wal-Mart now aspires to be like the government, bursting through political logjams and offering big-picture solutions to intractable problems. 
 As the federal government debates how to wean the country from its addiction to oil, Wal-Mart just announced it would require suppliers to make major appliances that use 25 percent less energy within the next three years. 
 While Congress wrings its hands over higher health care costs, Wal-Mart vowed to save companies $100 million this year by processing their prescription drug claims. (It already sells generic versions of prescription drugs for just $4, well below the national average.)
 Sounding like a politician, the chief executive of Wal-Mart, H. Lee Scott Jr., said in an address to employees two weeks ago, ''We live in a time when people are losing confidence in the ability of government to solve problems.'' But Wal-Mart, he said, ''does not wait for someone else to solve problems.''
 In Wal-Mart we trust? After years of criticism that it was a poor corporate citizen and miserly employer, maybe.
 The company's transformation from a laggard to a leader on issues like health care and the environment can arguably be traced to two epiphanies. The first was that a wave of negative publicity threatened to alienate consumers and block the opening of new stores. 
 For decades, Wal-Mart was associated with low wages, skimpy health insurance coverage and poor treatment of workers -- and not without reason. An internal memorandum in 2005 showed that though Wal-Mart earned $10 billion a year, 46 percent of its workers' children were uninsured or on Medicaid. 
 (There is even progress on that front: a new, more affordable Wal-Mart health plan has persuaded half of its 1.4 million workers to sign up for coverage in 2008, up from 45 percent several years ago.) 
 The second epiphany? Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, discovered that doing good was, in fact, good for business. That was the lesson of Hurricane Katrina. Wal-Mart's rapid response -- truckloads of water and food, much of it reaching residents before federal supplies -- won it widespread admiration.
 All of this encouraged Wal-Mart to think bigger. If the company was such an effective problem solver -- more effective, at times, than the federal government -- why not tackle the big issues of the day?
 ''With their unique combination of scale and speed they are able to leave any government agency in the dust,'' said Amory Lovins, chairman and chief scientist at the Rocky Mountain Institute, an energy research group. 
 Certainly, Wal-Mart's efforts are savvy business decisions with a profit motive -- it's making money on the health care services it markets and green products it sells, for instance. But that is not considered such a bad thing. 
 ''You wouldn't expect that Wal-Mart's business objectives are perfectly coincident with what the government should do,'' Mr. Lovins said, ''but there are large areas of overlap.''
 In some ways, Wal-Mart has begun to assume a role once played by General Motors, whose large size, healthy profits and corporate generosity inspired the slogan, ''What's good for General Motors is good for America.''
 ''Wal-Mart is trying to assume the responsibility that their size confers on them,'' said Len Nichols, health economist at the New America Foundation, which supports universal health coverage. ''It's a challenge to the government to step up to the plate.''
 Not everyone, however, is convinced that what's good for Wal-Mart is good for America. Critics still contend that, because of its enormous size, the retailer's low-price business model has depressed wages and exported manufacturing jobs overseas, hurting Americans as much as helping them.
 Even some of those who applaud Wal-Mart's progress say it is not enough, particularly in employee health care. ''They have taken the first steps, but they are nowhere near the finish line,'' said Andrew L. Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union. 
 Still, it's hard to argue with results. Take the case of electricity-sipping compact fluorescent light bulbs. Since Wal-Mart began heavily marketing them two years ago, it has sold 145 million bulbs, saving enough electricity, it says, to forestall the need for three coal-fired power plants in the United States.
 No wonder, then, that the giant company now sees itself -- and at times talks about itself -- as if it were a government. Last week, when it announced price cuts on a range of products, it playfully likened the plan to Congress's latest economic stimulus package. Then there are those polling numbers.
 In a recent presentation to Wal-Mart store managers, Wal-Mart's executive vice president for corporate affairs, Leslie Dach, explained that 90 percent of Americans shop at Wal-Mart and that, among them, Wal-Mart's ''favorability ratings'' are 91 percent. 
 He attributed those numbers, in part, to progress on big issues like health care and environmental sustainability. ''Any politician in America would trade their soul for these numbers,'' he said. 
 Again inviting comparisons to the government, Mr. Dach added that the President Bush's approval rating is 35 percent and Congress's 25 percent.
 ''As they see their elected leaders doing less to solve problems they care about,'' said Mr. Dach, ''people are looking to businesses to step up.''
 Wal-Mart's next big challenge? Finding a running mate.

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY THOMAS POROSTOCKY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); MEDICAID (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (76%); GENERIC DRUGS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (76%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (76%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (76%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); H LEE SCOTT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



85 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET MAKER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Yes, a Giant Can Sprint

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
FOR investors, the idea that a German industrial giant could also be a nimble stock market star might seem far-fetched, if not outright delusional. Indeed, the very concept of anything nimble and industrial might seem an oxymoron, whether Teutonic or American.
 But Siemens, the 161-year-old conglomerate based in Munich, has been disproving the skeptics in the last 12 months, while vastly outperforming the shares of its American archrival General Electric as well as the broader market indexes. 
 Despite a recent drop amid the global stock market swoon, the shares of Siemens traded in the United States are up 34 percent since January 2007. And over the last five years, the stock has nearly tripled.
 Of course, Siemens has a lot of catching up to do. Like G.E. before John F. Welch Jr. took over more than two decades ago and remade it, Siemens was always respected for its industrial expertise but dogged by bloated payrolls and thin profit margins. 
 Simply put, investors regarded it as too big a battleship to turn around. And resistance in Germany from powerful unions as well as political leaders made the kind of job cuts that Mr. Welch made at G.E. in the 1980s virtually impossible. 
 But a restructuring effort by top executives in the past two years has been gathering steam, raising profit margins even as demand for Siemens's industrial products and medical diagnostic systems has stayed strong.
 ''Siemens has decided it wants to focus on three areas: energy, health care, and automation and industrial systems,'' says Simon Smith, an analyst at Citigroup in London. 
 At the same time, Mr. Smith says, the company simplified its management structure while exiting lower-margin businesses like automobile components. ''I think they're moving to a leaner, more flexible business model,'' he adds. 
 In a strange twist, investors are also benefiting from a management shakeup last year brought on by allegations by German authorities that Siemens paid nearly $2 billion in bribes to win contracts around the world. (The company has settled part of the German case and is working to settle a related one in the United States.)
 As a result of the flap, Siemens brought in a new chairman, Gerhard Cromme, as well as a new chief executive, Peter Loscher, to clean up its reputation and its too-cozy way of doing business.
 It also marked the first time in the history of the company that the chairman and chief executive were both outsiders, ''and they had no legacy to defend,'' says Joe Kaeser, the chief financial officer and a member of the company's managing board. ''That's never been the case before.''
 MR. LOSCHER, in fact, is putting his money where his mouth is. On Jan. 28, Siemens announced that he had purchased 50,000 Siemens shares with his own cash. The rest of the company's top management also bought shares.
 While it's practically expected in the United States that the top brass own stock, the move was ''unique in German corporate history,'' Mr. Kaeser said. ''It's a sign that the board really believes in its strategy,'' he added.
 Mr. Loscher took over in July and outlined in November his plan to bolster margins and profits, a plan that has won praise from analysts. That latest restructuring program ''has made the unthinkable believable,'' Mr. Smith raved in a recent report. ''It has long been discussed what Siemens could become if it were to achieve profitability comparable to its best-in-class competitors, but this may soon become a reality.'' He rates the stock a buy. 
 Last year, global sales of Siemens totaled $96.6 billion, with its United States operations contributing $19.8 billion of that. 
 One of the company's strongest divisions is its automation unit. Customers for these systems include big automotive and mining companies and food and beverage makers, as well as chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturers, all seeking to improve efficiency via automation. 
 In fact, equipment bought from Siemens processes 90 percent of letter mail in the United States for the Postal Service.
 The biggest risk to the company's shares would be a global recession, especially if emerging markets like China, India and Brazil followed the lead of the slowing American economy. But with the company trading at only about 11 times estimated 2009 earnings, according to Andreas Willi of JPMorgan, its relatively reasonable valuation should offer some downside protection.
 Mr. Willi, whose price target on Siemens is 40 percent higher than the stock's current level, says investors are eager for April, when Siemens plans to announce further cost cuts.
 ''These conglomerates need a radical catalyst to change,'' he says. ''Ironically, they needed this corruption issue to accelerate the change, and it has. We've had more change in governance and structure in the last 12 months than in the last 20 years.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Loscher, the new Siemens chief, has turned the company around. He outlined how to bolster margins at Siemens, whose shares are already outperforming those of General Electric. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHIAS SCHRADER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (64%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (94%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (94%); SIE (LSE) (94%); SIE (FRA) (94%); SIE (BIT) (94%); SI (NYSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: PETER LOESCHER (77%); JACK WELCH (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



86 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1949 words

HEADLINE: As Primary Nears, Voters Critique Field

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
FORGET the issues.
 As they approach the New York State primary on Tuesday, Democratic and Republican voters in the suburbs of New York City appeared during recent interviews to be more focused on the character and personal histories of the candidates, even if the views of those candidates were sharply at odds with their own. 
 Take Myra Jaffe of Hastings-on-Hudson, a pianist and grandmother who was taking her morning speed-walk through The Westchester, the upscale mall in White Plains. She said the war in Iraq had made her heartsick and even though Senator Barack Obama opposed the American invasion, she said she was voting for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who supported it. She said she also realized that Mr. Obama had pledged to get combat troops out on a faster schedule. 
 ''But it's not enough to switch me over,'' Ms. Jaffe said about her commitment to Senator Clinton's candidacy. ''I have more confidence in her that she'll get us out. I feel he's young and hasn't been seasoned. I wonder about his interaction with foreign leaders and how much experience he's had.'' 
 In interviews with almost two dozen residents of Westchester and Long Island in diners and shopping malls, likability, trust and experience seemed to trump concerns about the Iraq war, the economy, immigration, health insurance and the other serious issues that have dominated the debates. It's as if all those issues are pointillist details to fill out the bigger canvas of who projects the aura of leadership to run the government. 
 Almost all of the Republicans who expressed support for Senator John McCain said they resented the loss of lives in Iraq and agonized over his advocacy of a measured rather than speedy pullout. Still Doris Gannon, 70, a retired phone-systems designer who was shopping with her daughter and granddaughter at Roosevelt Field in Garden City, on Long Island, said she intended to support Mr. McCain because he showed his devotion to this country as a prisoner of war in Vietnam and he seemed more presidential.
 ''He's an honest person, he has a little backbone,'' she said. ''I want to know how they're going to reduce taxes, how they're going to control the borders, reduce who's coming into the country -- but a person's personality enters into how they make decisions.''
 Mr. Obama received compliments from both supporters and opponents for honesty. Mrs. Clinton won admiration for competence and Mr. McCain was praised for his strength and, before he dropped out of the race, Rudolph W. Giuliani for his resolve. By contrast, policy issues repeatedly played a more enigmatic role, with many of those buttonholed unsure of the differences between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton on health insurance, or Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani on immigration.
 Conversely, voters who expressed distaste for some candidates disparaged them not for their political views but for what they perceived as other flaws. In Mrs. Clinton's case, for example, concern was raised over what was described as a calculating style. Voters brought up questions about Mr. McCain's age, and Mr. Obama's seasoning. 
 ''I don't think he is experienced enough,'' said Bea Aparo, 58, a fur shop manager from Bronxville, as she argued playfully with a younger colleague backing Mr. Obama. 
 The emphasis that voters are placing on character over policy is not a surprise in a primary in which rivals' proposals are often similar. Maurice Carroll, director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said that in the general election the contrasts on policy approaches between a Republican and Democrat are likely to be more stark. But in primary contests ''ideologically you can't tell what the difference is,'' he said. 
 Speaking just of the Democratic primary, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat who has represented parts of Westchester since 1983, said ''issues of character and temperament'' matter more.
 ''What's dominating this race has been an extraordinary and fairly unprecedented contest between two dramatically different visions of presidential leadership complicated by gender and race,'' he said. ''Hillary stands for experience, intelligence and competence, and Barack stands for transformation and unity.'' 
 In the Democratic primary, 232 of New York's 281 convention delegates are at stake, with 151 allotted proportionately. Accounting for 16.3 percent of the state's registered Democrats, Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties can be crucial in determining the winner. That's even truer for the winner-take-all Republican primary: The three counties are bedrooms for 28 percent of the state's Republicans.
 Democrats have a large registration edge in Westchester, and the Republicans lead in Nassau and Suffolk, but all that will not matter on Tuesday, when voters can cast ballots only in the primary of the party they named at registration. (As of Dec. 21, Westchester had 271,601 registered Democrats and 166,060 Republicans; Nassau had 350,224 Republicans and 329,259 Democrats; and Suffolk had 323,007 Republicans and 274,928 Democrats.)
 A poll by Quinnipiac released on Jan. 22 -- before Mr. Giuliani dropped out of the race and backed Senator McCain last Wednesday -- found that among Republicans, Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani were tied with 30 percent of likely voters while other candidates were far behind. Among Democrats who said they were likely to vote in the primary, 51 percent said they supported Mrs. Clinton and 25 percent said they supported Mr. Obama. Former Senator John Edwards, who also dropped out of the race on Wednesday, trailed behind with 11 percent of the vote. The sample was not large enough to predict voting by counties. The poll reported a margin of error of plus or minus 5.4 percentage points for Republicans and 4.2 percentage points for Democrats.
 Many of the voters approached on Long Island and in Westchester said that they had not yet made up their minds. One first-time voter shopping in Westchester, Heather Lande, 19, of New Rochelle, a student at the University of Maryland, described herself as a liberal Republican and said she was leaning toward Mr. McCain. And she did cite some issues.
 ''I want to vote for whoever is best qualified and can get our economy back on track because it's kind of gone off the deep end,'' she said. 
 ''I think McCain meets the criteria of what we know as a president. If you're going to be the leader of the strongest nation in the world, you have to have the character to make decisions and get people to support you.'' 
 Mr. Giuliani's decline in the New York polls to deadlock status -- in the days before he dropped out of the race -- was a startling surprise in a state where he was mayor of the largest city and earned a reputation for reining in crime and exuding a masterful poise in the aftermath of the twin towers attack. That regard for him was shared by many commuters from Westchester and Long Island. 
 But Mr. Carroll of the Quinnipiac polling institute said he thought that Mr. Giuliani had strayed into a publicity Siberia by skipping the early primaries and the free news coverage they provided. Mr. McCain, on the other hand, reversed his own fortunes by winning New Hampshire and seeing the violence in Iraq abate as a result of the so-called surge of troops he supported. 
 Several of the women and African-American voters interviewed said they were excited by the idea of being able to cast a ballot for the first time for either a viable female or black presidential candidate. The Quinnipiac poll found that Mr. Obama led Mrs. Clinton, 45 percent to 37 percent, among black voters, while Mrs. Clinton led among white voters, 52 to 21, and among women, 54 to 20. 
 ''I was born in 1964 during the civil rights era, and it's an opportunity to show we're equal,'' said an Obama supporter, Carol Bagley, 43, of White Plains, a secretary who was lunching with her husband at the White Plains Coach Diner. ''As an African-American you feel you have to have twice as much experience. You ask about Obama's experience. With Hillary, where is her experience?''
 Keith Elder, 25, of Bronxville, who is also African-American, said he preferred Mr. Obama, but did not cite race as his motivation. ''Barack Obama was the only one who stood up and said the Iraq war was not a good idea,'' Mr. Elder said. 
 While that sounded like an issue-based preference, Mr. Elder repeatedly cited personal traits as well. For example, he said he was struck in a recent debate by Mr. Obama's willingness to admit that his health plan would not cover 12 million illegal immigrants. The other candidates muddied their response, Mr. Elder said, because they did not want to alienate Latino voters. But Mr. Obama ''stands behind what he says and is clear about what he says,'' Mr. Elder said. 
 Democratic women seemed just as keen about Mrs. Clinton's candidacy.
 ''It would be a great thing for an African-American to win, but it would be great for a woman to win also,'' said Mrs. Jaffe.
 But the way Mrs. Clinton has acted as the woman with the first genuine chance of becoming president repelled some male interviewees. Mr. Elder said he was put off by Mrs. Clinton's emotional display in a question-and-answer session with voters in New Hampshire after her loss in the Iowa caucuses. 
 ''If you cry because you lost a primary, what are you going to do when the big stuff happens?'' he asked.
 Victor Gojcaj, 25, a Bedford restaurateur with a shaved scalp and a beard who was also having lunch at the White Plains diner, said he could not support Mrs. Clinton because women don't ''have the heart of a man'' when it comes to making military decisions.
 ''A woman wants to protect children,'' he said. ''A man would say do it. I don't think Hillary is mean enough.''
 Those evaluating Mrs. Clinton often mentioned the Clinton marriage, both as a plus and a minus. Ms. Aparo, manager of Steven Corn Furs in the Westchester, said Bill Clinton's supporting role in his wife's possible presidency means she ''has good back-up, she has someone to lean on.''
 Alirio Bravo, 66, a retired encyclopedia distributor from Roslyn Heights, was sitting on a sofa in the Roosevelt Field mall, reading a newspaper -- something more cerebral than his daily mainstay of tennis.
 ''I like Hillary, and she has Bill,'' he said. ''If she wins, you know who's going to be president. Everybody likes Bill. The economy was all the way up before Bush made a U-turn. Everything was perfect.''
 To detractors, however, Mr. Clinton's high-profile role in the campaign only raised concerns about another four years of both Clintons in the White House.
 ''Clinton disgraced the office of the president, and she is a product of his politics,'' said Fred Bostrom of Floral Park, a retired partner in a Wall Street investment firm who said he liked Mr. Edwards before he left the race. ''Mrs. Clinton is a very smart woman, but I don't trust her.''
 Mr. Obama is inexperienced, said Mr. Bostrom, who is registered as a Democrat, but has not ruled out voting for a Republican in November.
 ''I do like McCain, but his age is a problem,'' Mr. Bostrom said. ''He's 71. I'm 73, and I know how I feel. I don't think he'll have enough energy and health for the long term.''
 Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, is ''too much of a businessman who stepped on a lot of people,'' Mr. Bostrom said.
 He said that in choosing among the candidates the most important determinant for him is character.
 ''I think the word I'm looking for is integrity,'' Mr. Bostrom said, ''and I feel most of these people don't have that integrity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNDECIDED Fred Bostrom, below, a Democrat from Floral Park at the Roosevelt Field mall, favored John Edwards before he dropped out of the race, and was uncertain which of his party's candidates he would support in the primary. But he was considering voting Republican in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES: Bea Aparo, above, and Keith Elder, who work at a fur shop in The Westchester mall in White Plains, differ on the race for president: She backs Senator Hillary Clinton and he supports Senator Barack Obama. A shopper at The Westchester, Heather Lande, top left in photos at right, was leaning toward Senator John McCain. Clockwise from top right: At the White Plains Diner, Carol Bagley was enthusiastic about Mr. Obama and Victor Gojcaj was skeptical about Mrs. Clinton
 and at the Roosevelt Field mall in Garden City, N.Y., Alirio Bravo, said he liked Mrs. Clinton and her husband. (pg. 7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY P. C. VEY)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SUBURBS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GRANDPARENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); RETAILERS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); VIET NAM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



87 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN-BOX; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 574 words

 BODY:
A Senator Fumbles
 To the Sports Editor:
 ''Evidence of Discontent'' (Feb. 1) underscores Senator Arlen Specter's legitimate interest in the N.F.L.'s destruction of the New England Patriots' Spygate videotapes.
 But for the senator to equate the league's action to the C.I.A. destruction of tapes is beneath the dignity of Specter, the ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee. Even on the Friday before the Super Bowl, no public official should compare protecting the integrity of N.F.L. games with protecting the integrity of the Constitution. Allan Margolin 
 New York
 Tenuous Steroids Link
 To the Sports Editor: 
 Re ''A Voice of Skepticism on the Impact of Steroids,'' Jan 27: Eric Walker uses selective statistics that fail to demonstrate a link between steroids and baseball performance. That doesn't mean no link exists. His comparison of Hank Aaron's late-career performance with Barry Bonds's is particularly misleading. 
 Although Aaron realized a power surge in his late 30s, it was limited to home runs, as his batting average dropped as expected at that age. Other older players have demonstrated this pattern. In Aaron's case, this could be attributed in some measure to league expansion and moving to a smaller park at a higher altitude. In contrast, virtually all of Bonds's offensive numbers peaked: home runs, and a batting average 50 points above his career figure. This was unprecedented in baseball history. 
 There are statistics suggesting a link between performance and steroids, including the number of Most Valuable Player and Cy Young awards in suspected drug users in the steroid era. Players and fans are not fools -- they can see too. 
 Cory Franklin, M.D.
 Wilmette, Ill.
 Folly of Djokovic's Serve
 To the Sports Editor:
 Re ''Beating Federer, Djokovic Has Look of Champion,'' Jan. 26: Novak Djokovic is at an unfair advantage because of his method of serving. He is an outstanding tennis player, but he has an annoying habit of bouncing the ball many times and taking up to 10 seconds before serving. That should not be tolerated in tournament tennis. 
 How about absolutely no more than three bounces and no more than five seconds before service?
 Mary Farrar Bonotto
 Princeton, N. J.
 Money Not Well Spent
 To the Sports Editor:
 I would like to see an economic stimulus package financed with the entire budget of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The drama of whether Roger Clemens and other baseball players used steroids is mildly entertaining. But in these troubled times, spending even 5 cents of tax money trying to uncover an answer is an outrage. Doyle Avant
 San Antonio
 Masked Men and Women?
 To the Sports Editor: 
 Re ''Olympic Teams Vying to Defeat Beijing's Smog,'' Jan. 24: Regarding the possibility that United States athletes will wear masks to protect their lungs from the miasmic Chinese air, Randy Wilber, an exercise physiologist based at the Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs, said it would be a ''huge political issue and an embarrassment to the Chinese people and the I.O.C.''
 He added, ''If that image was beamed around the world on TV, it would cause nothing but problems.'' 
 Actually, it could cause change. The Olympics could smoke out China's pollution problem, even if Beijing wants it otherwise. Olympians in gas masks could make for a defining avatar of the destruction we have wreaked on our planet. Avery Jolly
 Reserve, La.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEROIDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (89%); OLYMPICS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (66%); BUDGETS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (58%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (88%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



88 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1935 words

HEADLINE: As Primary Nears, Voters Critique Field

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
FORGET the issues.
 As they approach the New York State primary on Tuesday, Democratic and Republican voters in the suburbs of New York City appeared during recent interviews to be more focused on the character and personal histories of the candidates, even if the views of those candidates were sharply at odds with their own. 
 Take Myra Jaffe of Hastings-on-Hudson, a pianist and grandmother who was taking her morning speed-walk through The Westchester, the upscale mall in White Plains. She said the war in Iraq had made her heartsick and even though Senator Barack Obama opposed the American invasion, she said she was voting for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who supported it. She said she also realized that Mr. Obama had pledged to get combat troops out on a faster schedule. 
 ''But it's not enough to switch me over,'' Ms. Jaffe said about her commitment to Senator Clinton's candidacy. ''I have more confidence in her that she'll get us out. I feel he's young and hasn't been seasoned. I wonder about his interaction with foreign leaders and how much experience he's had.'' 
 In interviews with almost two dozen residents of Westchester and Long Island in diners and shopping malls, likability, trust and experience seemed to trump concerns about the Iraq war, the economy, immigration, health insurance and the other serious issues that have dominated the debates. It's as if all those issues are pointillist details to fill out the bigger canvas of who projects the aura of leadership to run the government. 
 Almost all of the Republicans who expressed support for Senator John McCain said they resented the loss of lives in Iraq and agonized over his advocacy of a measured rather than speedy pullout. Still Doris Gannon, 70, a retired phone-systems designer who was shopping with her daughter and granddaughter at Roosevelt Field in Garden City, on Long Island, said she intended to support Mr. McCain because he showed his devotion to this country as a prisoner of war in Vietnam and he seemed more presidential.
 ''He's an honest person, he has a little backbone,'' she said. ''I want to know how they're going to reduce taxes, how they're going to control the borders, reduce who's coming into the country -- but a person's personality enters into how they make decisions.''
 Mr. Obama received compliments from both supporters and opponents for honesty. Mrs. Clinton won admiration for competence and Mr. McCain was praised for his strength and, before he dropped out of the race, Rudolph W. Giuliani for his resolve. By contrast, policy issues repeatedly played a more enigmatic role, with many of those buttonholed unsure of the differences between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton on health insurance, or Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani on immigration.
 Conversely, voters who expressed distaste for some candidates disparaged them not for their political views but for what they perceived as other flaws. In Mrs. Clinton's case, for example, concern was raised over what was described as a calculating style. Voters brought up questions about Mr. McCain's age, and Mr. Obama's seasoning. 
 ''I don't think he is experienced enough,'' said Bea Aparo, 58, a fur shop manager from Bronxville, as she argued playfully with a younger colleague backing Mr. Obama. 
 The emphasis that voters are placing on character over policy is not a surprise in a primary in which rivals' proposals are often similar. Maurice Carroll, director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said that in the general election the contrasts on policy approaches between a Republican and Democrat are likely to be more stark. But in primary contests ''ideologically you can't tell what the difference is,'' he said. 
 Speaking just of the Democratic primary, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat who has represented parts of Westchester since 1983, said ''issues of character and temperament'' matter more.
 ''What's dominating this race has been an extraordinary and fairly unprecedented contest between two dramatically different visions of presidential leadership complicated by gender and race,'' he said. ''Hillary stands for experience, intelligence and competence, and Barack stands for transformation and unity.'' 
 In the Democratic primary, 232 of New York's 281 convention delegates are at stake, with 151 allotted proportionately. Accounting for 16.3 percent of the state's registered Democrats, Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties can be crucial in determining the winner. That's even truer for the winner-take-all Republican primary: The three counties are bedrooms for 28 percent of the state's Republicans.
 Democrats have a large registration edge in Westchester, and the Republicans lead in Nassau and Suffolk, but all that will not matter on Tuesday, when voters can cast ballots only in the primary of the party they named at registration. (As of Dec. 21, Westchester had 271,601 registered Democrats and 166,060 Republicans; Nassau had 350,224 Republicans and 329,259 Democrats; and Suffolk had 323,007 Republicans and 274,928 Democrats.)
 A poll by Quinnipiac released on Jan. 22 -- before Mr. Giuliani dropped out of the race and backed Senator McCain last Wednesday -- found that among Republicans, Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani were tied with 30 percent of likely voters while other candidates were far behind. Among Democrats who said they were likely to vote in the primary, 51 percent said they supported Mrs. Clinton and 25 percent said they supported Mr. Obama. Former Senator John Edwards, who also dropped out of the race on Wednesday, trailed behind with 11 percent of the vote. The sample was not large enough to predict voting by counties. The poll reported a margin of error of plus or minus 5.4 percentage points for Republicans and 4.2 percentage points for Democrats.
 Many of the voters approached on Long Island and in Westchester said that they had not yet made up their minds. One first-time voter shopping in Westchester, Heather Lande, 19, of New Rochelle, a student at the University of Maryland, described herself as a liberal Republican and said she was leaning toward Mr. McCain. And she did cite some issues.
 ''I want to vote for whoever is best qualified and can get our economy back on track because it's kind of gone off the deep end,'' she said. 
 ''I think McCain meets the criteria of what we know as a president. If you're going to be the leader of the strongest nation in the world, you have to have the character to make decisions and get people to support you.'' 
 Mr. Giuliani's decline in the New York polls to deadlock status -- in the days before he dropped out of the race -- was a startling surprise in a state where he was mayor of the largest city and earned a reputation for reining in crime and exuding a masterful poise in the aftermath of the twin towers attack. But Mr. Carroll of the Quinnipiac polling institute said he thought that Mr. Giuliani had strayed into a publicity Siberia by skipping the early primaries and the free news coverage they provided. Mr. McCain, on the other hand, reversed his own fortunes by winning New Hampshire and seeing the violence in Iraq abate as a result of the so-called surge of troops he supported. 
 Several of the women and African-American voters interviewed said they were excited by the idea of being able to cast a ballot for the first time for either a viable female or black presidential candidate. The Quinnipiac poll found that Mr. Obama led Mrs. Clinton, 45 percent to 37 percent, among black voters, while Mrs. Clinton led among white voters, 52 to 21, and among women, 54 to 20. 
 ''I was born in 1964 during the civil rights era, and it's an opportunity to show we're equal,'' said an Obama supporter, Carol Bagley, 43, of White Plains, a secretary who was lunching with her husband at the White Plains Coach Diner. ''As an African-American you feel you have to have twice as much experience. You ask about Obama's experience. With Hillary, where is her experience?''
 Keith Elder, 25, of Bronxville, who is also African-American, said he preferred Mr. Obama, but did not cite race as his motivation. ''Barack Obama was the only one who stood up and said the Iraq war was not a good idea,'' Mr. Elder said. 
 While that sounded like an issue-based preference, Mr. Elder repeatedly cited personal traits as well. For example, he said he was struck in a recent debate by Mr. Obama's willingness to admit that his health plan would not cover 12 million illegal immigrants. The other candidates muddied their response, Mr. Elder said, because they did not want to alienate Latino voters. But Mr. Obama ''stands behind what he says and is clear about what he says,'' Mr. Elder said. 
 Democratic women seemed just as keen about Mrs. Clinton's candidacy.
 ''It would be a great thing for an African-American to win, but it would be great for a woman to win also,'' said Mrs. Jaffe.
 But the way Mrs. Clinton has acted as the woman with the first genuine chance of becoming president repelled some male interviewees. Mr. Elder said he was put off by Mrs. Clinton's emotional display in a question-and-answer session with voters in New Hampshire after her loss in the Iowa caucuses. 
 ''If you cry because you lost a primary, what are you going to do when the big stuff happens?'' he asked.
 Victor Gojcaj, 25, a Bedford restaurateur with a shaved scalp and a beard who was also having lunch at the White Plains diner, said he could not support Mrs. Clinton because women don't ''have the heart of a man'' when it comes to making military decisions.
 ''A woman wants to protect children,'' he said. ''A man would say do it. I don't think Hillary is mean enough.''
 Those evaluating Mrs. Clinton often mentioned the Clinton marriage, both as a plus and a minus. Ms. Aparo, manager of Steven Corn Furs in the Westchester, said Bill Clinton's supporting role in his wife's possible presidency means she ''has good back-up, she has someone to lean on.''
 Alirio Bravo, 66, a retired encyclopedia distributor from Roslyn Heights, was sitting on a sofa in the Roosevelt Field mall, reading a newspaper -- something more cerebral than his daily mainstay of tennis.
 ''I like Hillary, and she has Bill,'' he said. ''If she wins, you know who's going to be president. Everybody likes Bill. The economy was all the way up before Bush made a U-turn. Everything was perfect.''
 To detractors, however, Mr. Clinton's high-profile role in the campaign only raised concerns about another four years of both Clintons in the White House.
 ''Clinton disgraced the office of the president, and she is a product of his politics,'' said Fred Bostrom of Floral Park, a retired partner in a Wall Street investment firm who said he liked Mr. Edwards before he left the race. ''Mrs. Clinton is a very smart woman, but I don't trust her.''
 Mr. Obama is inexperienced, said Mr. Bostrom, who is registered as a Democrat, but has not ruled out voting for a Republican in November.
 ''I do like McCain, but his age is a problem,'' Mr. Bostrom said. ''He's 71. I'm 73, and I know how I feel. I don't think he'll have enough energy and health for the long term.''
 Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, is ''too much of a businessman who stepped on a lot of people,'' Mr. Bostrom said.
 He said that in choosing among the candidates the most important determinant for him is character.
 ''I think the word I'm looking for is integrity,'' Mr. Bostrom said, ''and I feel most of these people don't have that integrity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNDECIDED: Fred Bostrom, below, a Democrat from Floral Park at the Roosevelt Field mall, favored John Edwards before he dropped out of the race, and was uncertain which of his party's candidates he would support in the primary. But he was considering voting Republican in November.
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES: Bea Aparo, above, and Keith Elder, who work at a fur shop in The Westchester mall in White Plains, differ on the race for president: She backs Senator Hillary Clinton and he supports Senator Barack Obama. A shopper at The Westchester, Heather Lande, top left in photos at right, was leaning toward Senator John McCain. Clockwise from top right: At the White Plains Diner, Carol Bagley was enthusiastic about Mr. Obama and Victor Gojcaj was skeptical about Mrs. Clinton
 and at the Roosevelt Field mall in Garden City, N.Y., Alirio Bravo, said he liked Mrs. Clinton and her husband. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY P. C. VEY)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SUBURBS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GRANDPARENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); RETAILERS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); VIET NAM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



89 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; TILL TUESDAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2627 words

HEADLINE: The Party Animal Either Plays Well Or Fights Well

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES. 
Michael Oreskes is editor of The International Herald Tribune and author, with Eric Lane, of ''The Genius of America: How the Constitution Saved Our Country -- and Why It Can Again.''

 BODY:
SOMETIMES the simplest of arguments can reveal the deepest of divisions. Take the dispute between Senator Barack Obama and the Clintons over the legacy of Ronald Reagan. The episode began in Reno, Nev., you will recall, when Mr. Obama told an editorial board that Mr. Reagan was a president of ideas who had moved the country's politics. His ideas weren't necessarily good ideas, as Mr. Obama framed it, but they were transformative. 
 That may sound like a straightforward statement of history. But the Clintons pounced on Mr. Obama for presenting the icon of the red team in a positive light. Mr. Obama struck back with what has to be one of the more unusual attack ads in the history of American presidential politics. For two days, he criticized Senator Hillary Clinton on the air because she had denounced him for, as the ad put it, having expressed ''a few kind words about Ronald Reagan.''
 ''You're not even allowed to say a Republican had an idea,'' Mr. Obama mourned on Tuesday night. 
 It all might have sounded like a parody of our constricted political discourse had the controversy not been so revealing of a profound split that is now quite apparent in both parties on the eve of the largest day of delegate selection ever (half of all the Democratic delegates and better than 40 percent of the Republican delegates to their respective nominating conventions will be picked on Tuesday).
 Call it a split between whether politics should be a pursuit of consensus or an effort to enact a party's fundamental ideas, its core orthodoxy. Each party's nominating fight boiled down last week to a choice between two candidates: one who argues for a politics that reaches across party lines and looks to identify common ground within the broader electorate; and one who states his or her first principle as representing the traditional party base by drawing firm ideological lines.
 Mr. Obama versus Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic campaign. 
 John McCain versus Mitt Romney for the Republicans.
 This split has deep roots in American political history, and each side can claim a long, noble and successful tradition. For many years after World War II, under the unifying pressure of the cold war, consensus ruled as presidents of both parties, starting with Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower, governed in stable if not always perfect alliance with partners of the other party. Hard as it is to imagine now, comity really was, at least sometimes, more important than seizing the last inch of ideological territory. This manner of politics was so prevalent that in 1965 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. wrote in his journal that President Lyndon B. Johnson, who had come of political age in the postwar Senate, ''has no idea of his own but consensus.'' Mr. Schlesinger was deriding this as a pitiable lack of political vision. But it was precisely Mr. Johnson's gift for legislative compromise that produced landmark accomplishments, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
 The long postwar consensus collapsed in the fires of the 1960s, as racial unrest, Vietnam and, finally, Watergate polarized the nation. From those ashes emerged Reagan, the modern archetype of a president committed to a distinctly conservative orthodoxy; that is, a few strongly held ideas -- opposing Communism, limiting government, encouraging free enterprise -- from which he never deviated.
 Ever since, as the Republican debate on Wednesday night reminded us, Reaganism has been Republican orthodoxy -- ''mainstream Republicanism,'' in Mr. Romney's phrase. It has also been the dominant political force in the country, forcing even Bill Clinton as president to tack in that direction in order to govern effectively. This is what Mr. Obama was acknowledging in the remarks the Clintons seized upon.
 Now the 2008 election seems likely to signal a final transition from the Reagan era. A simple view is that orthodox Reaganism has come crashing down in the troubled presidency of George W. Bush. But that would be to miss several larger tides of politics and opinion. For one thing, there is the difference between Mr. Reagan himself and some of his successors. Mr. Reagan, for all the clarity of his beliefs, was also a pragmatist, usually willing to negotiate (whether the man on the other side of the table was Tip O'Neill or Mikhail Gorbachev). Some of his political followers -- Mr. McCain is not a bad example -- adopted his ideology and his pragmatism. But others took the ideology without Mr. Reagan's flexibility, or his charm, an approach captured by the title of Tom DeLay's memoir, ''No Retreat, No Surrender.''
 So in the 1990s the partisan warfare deepened. The central political figures of that era were, of course, the Clintons themselves. They are both masters of political combat, and Mrs. Clinton, even more than her husband, has made clear that she believes there are orthodox Democratic positions that need to be fought for. She seemed almost exasperated on this point after losing in South Carolina to Mr. Obama and his promise to unite the country around a common purpose. ''Of course, I believe very strongly in finding common ground; that's what I've done in the Senate,'' she said. ''But I also believe in standing our ground against some of the very poorly thought out and ill-conceived policies and ideas that we've had to fight against.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton cited health care as a place to draw a line and insist on mandatory coverage. ''It is so important that as Democrats we carry the banner of universal health care,'' she said. Mr. Obama's plan, she suggested, was perhaps too much the product of consensus. ''So it's not that he is against mandatory provisions,'' she said, ''it's that he doesn't think it would be politically acceptable to require that for everyone.'' 
 The implicit choice facing voters today in both parties is whether the next president should govern from an orthodox ideological position or more in the manner of the postwar presidents who led through bipartisan consensus.
 Certainly Americans have learned that the manner of campaigning does not guarantee the manner of governing. Mr. Bush ran on the promise that he would be a uniter, not a divider. But if the nature of a campaign is any signal, the current ones show clear distinctions on this question of partisanship.
 The divide is visible in all sorts of ways. Just as Mrs. Clinton pilloried Mr. Obama for indiscreetly suggesting that Mr. Reagan had ideas, Mr. Romney attacked Mr. McCain because the 2004 Democratic presidential candidate, John Kerry, considered inviting Mr. McCain to be his running mate. What was Mr. McCain's mistake, according to Mr. Romney? ''He gave that some thought.'' A mistake Mr. Romney says he would never have made: ''Had someone asked me that question,'' which as far as we know no Democratic candidate ever has, ''there would not have been a nanosecond of thought about it.''
 So there it was. Even thinking about working with the other team, let alone praising its ideas, can be a grievous political sin (which Republican loyalists feel Mr. McCain has committed any number of times on any number of issues, as Mr. Romney well knew and hoped to reinforce just before the primary in Florida). 
 The sincerity of Mr. Romney's own commitment to Republican orthodoxy has been challenged, but with the zealotry of a convert, he has stepped up the pressure on Mr. McCain since Florida. He describes the race with Mr. McCain as ''this battle for the heart of the Republican Party'' and is ever ready with a list of issues on which Mr. McCain has strayed from Republican orthodoxy -- immigration, campaign finance, tax reduction, same-sex marriage.
 American politics has been so polarized for so long now that it is hardly surprising that veteran politicians like Mr. Romney and Mrs. Clinton fall back on standard political tools (like casting doubt on their opponents' partisan bona fides) to motivate the party base, particularly in what is, after all, still a party nominating fight, not a general election. Mr. Obama spoke last week of bad political ''habits'' of divisiveness and partisanship, which he said were not the fault of any one campaign. In their political careers these candidates have never really seen much else. 
 WHAT is perhaps more revealing is that for all their experience Mr. Romney and Mrs. Clinton are campaigning as if they had missed the extraordinary shift in national mood. 
 Not so Mr. Obama or, to a considerable extent, Mr. McCain. Mr. Obama's campaign has clearly been tapping a pervasive disenchantment with the nation's condition and its politics. And Mr. McCain has been running against the conservative establishment, the seat of its orthodoxy. 
 ''I don't know that we have seen in the last 50 years two candidates who have so openly tried to move beyond their party base before the nomination as Obama and McCain,'' said Meenekshi Bose, professor of presidential studies at Hofstra University.
 Indeed, for much of last year Mr. McCain tried to mute the ways he differed with the base of the Republican Party, and his campaign foundered. But more recently his ''Straight Talk Express'' has picked up steam as he has been more explicit in acknowledging those differences. In Wednesday night's debate, Mr. Romney accused Mr. McCain of holding views ''outside the mainstream of Republican conservative thought.'' Mr. McCain replied that he was proud of his conservative record. ''It's one of reaching across the aisle to get things done for the American people.''
 Much was made last week of the comparison between Mr. Obama and John F Kennedy and his 1960 campaign for president. Certainly, Mr. Obama's allure to younger and independent voters comes in large measure from his promise of a politics akin to the politics not only of John F. Kennedy but also of his brother Robert, whose campaign in 1968 excited talk of a ''new politics'' that would energize younger voters. Whichever Kennedy Mr. Obama more resembles, the mood of the country today is clearly more than a little like the mood of America in 1968.
 ''Of course, the war cannot bear responsibility for all our other ills. It has contributed to them by draining off resources and energies and, most of all, by blunting our sense of moral purpose. But to a large extent it has only catalyzed an awareness of more profound problems.'' 
 That sounds as if it was written last week about Iraq and America's national disillusionment. But in fact it was written just as 1968 ended by Richard Goodwin, who had been a speechwriter for Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, to capture a year that began with the insurgency of Eugene McCarthy, was shattered by the assassinations of both Robert F. Kennedy and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and ended with the election of Richard Nixon. All the while the war raged on in Vietnam, but the national unhappiness was rooted in deep societal alienation, Mr. Goodwin argued, brought on by everything from suburbanization to the dawn of the computer age.
 The sources are different today. But alienation again fuels frustration and disenchantment. Government seems distant and ineffective to many voters. Even a government as powerful as America's seems inadequate to crucial challenges -- from the physical threat of terrorism to the economic wrenching of globalization. The political world, to many, seems out of joint.
 ''It is too easy -- and too partisan -- to simply place the blame on the policies of President George W. Bush,'' wrote a man who could hardly be blamed if he did, Al Gore. In a book published last summer, Mr. Gore captured part of the mood when he wrote that ''American democracy is now in danger'' because public debate has been hollowed out by a vicious cycle of partisanship and shallow media. ''It is simply no longer possible to ignore the strangeness of our public discourse,'' Mr. Gore wrote.
 Across the political spectrum Americans say they feel that something is wrong. For many years, poll takers have been asking Americans the standard question of whether they think the country is going in the right or wrong direction. The numbers this winter are about as bad as they have ever been. Nearly 7 in 10 of those surveyed say the country is on the wrong track. Indeed, says the poll taker Peter D. Hart, the country has gone through Vietnam, Watergate and impeachment without a period of sustained negativity that equals this. 
 Writing this from the other side of the Atlantic, I'm well aware that the disenchantment is not limited to the United States. Western democracies in general are facing a crisis of confidence, says Stein Ringen, professor of social science at Oxford University. Professor Ringen has studied the major Western democracies, the ones usually thought of as the most robust, and concluded that ''citizens are turning away; they care less for democracy, believe less in it, participate less in it and have less trust in its governance.''
 Robert Reich, President Clinton's labor secretary, contends that economic globalization has undercut the ability of voters to feel they can influence events through their government even as the same forces have strengthened the hands of consumers and investors (who, to some extent at least, can be the same people).
 These are the winds of disenchantment that have been lifting Senators Obama and McCain with their promise of a different kind of politics. But a groundswell for change, even a soaring promise of change, does not by itself produce change. The candidates still must triumph in the very political system they are criticizing.
 ''The real split, it seems to me,'' said the historian and Thomas Dewey biographer Richard Norton Smith, ''is between those Americans, a majority in my opinion, who at least say they want to see politicians trying to work across the aisle and the political system as it has actually evolved, with gerrymandered districts and talk radio and much of the media coverage reinforcing the tyranny of the base.''
 It would be easy in the current political climate to presume that the bipartisans are the good guys and the party fundamentalists the bad. But that would be to assume that what is politically attractive at the moment will also be politically effective or even right. 
 Mr. Smith picked his words precisely. Americans say they want to see politicians working across party lines. But do they really mean it? One voter's consensus is another's fatal compromise. Are you actually willing to give up some cherished goal, or part of it, to achieve more unity?
 Mr. Hart, the poll taker, notes that while voters agree that the American house needs repair, half want to shore up the floorboards and the others want to fix the roof. They may all want to unite, but unite around what?
 Indeed, you could look at Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Romney as the realists. They confront politics as it is, rather than engaging in flights of fancy about what it might be. They aren't just pandering to the base because they need core party voters to win the nomination. They are fighting for principles that separate their side from the other.
 There is a strong cadre around Mrs. Clinton who believe that this is the moment for Democrats to do what the Republicans did so well for nearly 30 years: seize the high ground of ideas, offer strong proposals and push them through. In other words, the goal, as Sidney Blumenthal, a Clinton adviser, put it in a recent interview with The New Yorker, is not transcending partisanship but ''fulfilling it.'' 
 With the tide running for the Democrats this year, the campaign season will show whether it is the misfortune of partisan Democrats that their moment has arrived just as the country has had it with partisanship.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in some editions last Sunday about orthodoxy and consensus in presidential politics misidentified the Republican politician who The Hill newspaper said once considered changing parties. The report concerned John McCain, not Mitt Romney.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHANNELING OPPOSITE ARCHETYPES: Barack Obama seeks the Democratic nomination, and Mitt Romney the Republican. Different parties and different models. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD PERRY)
WHOSE WAY? Hillary Clinton and John McCain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK6) ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY JAMES VICTORE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COLD WAR (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (65%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK PERRY (71%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (73%) NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



90 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SILICON VALLEY MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Deal Is Big, but Is It the Next Big Thing?

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In moving to buy Yahoo, Microsoft may be firing the final shot of yesterday's war.
 That one was over Internet search advertising, a booming category in which both Microsoft and Yahoo were humble and distant also-rans behind Google.
 Microsoft may see Yahoo as its last best chance to catch up. But for all its size and ambition, the bid has not been greeted with enthusiasm. That may be because Silicon Valley favors bottom-up innovation instead of growth by acquisition. The region's investment money and brain power are tuned to start-ups that can anticipate the next big thing rather than chase the last one.
 And what will touch off the next battle? Maybe it will be a low-power microprocessor, code-named Silverthorne, that Intel plans to announce Monday. It is designed for a new wave of hand-held wireless devices that Silicon Valley hopes will touch off the next wave of software innovation.
 Or maybe it will be something else entirely. 
 No one really knows, of course, but gambling on the future is the essence of Silicon Valley. Everyone chases the next big thing, knowing it could very well be the wrong thing. And those who guess wrong risk their survival.
 That is why, in this silicon-centric economy, front-runners do not stay front-runners for long.
 Many big names of the 1980s -- Commodore, Tandem, Digital Equipment and MicroPro -- are in a graveyard shared by the highfliers of the 1990s -- the At Home Network, Netscape and Infoseek, to name a few.
 Now Yahoo, founded by Stanford graduate students who became media darlings and instant billionaires after an exhilarating initial public offering of stock, may be the next to disappear. 
 And Yahoo, which is based in Sunnyvale, Calif., is only 13 years old. Microsoft wants to buy the company for $44.6 billion as its way to compete with Google, the hot company of this decade, which was also founded by Stanford graduate students who became media darlings and instant billionaires after an exhilarating initial public offering.
 ''This is the very nature of the Valley,'' said Jim Breyerof the venture capital firm Accel Partners. ''After very strong growth, businesses by definition start to slow as competition increases and young creative start-ups begin to attack the incumbents.''
 The economist Joseph Alois Schumpeter had a name for this principle of capitalism: creative destruction. Perhaps nowhere does it play out more dramatically -- and more rapidly -- than in Silicon Valley, where innovation unleashes a force that creates and destroys, over and over.
 Microsoft, at the still-young age of 32, is making its largest acquisition because it, too, is affected by this force. Founded in 1975, Microsoft has had a longer run than most tech companies largely because it became very good at chasing the next big thing: an operating system, point-and-click computing, software for servers, Web services, video games, and, most recently, Internet search and online advertising.
 Technological innovation may not have always been what gave Microsoft the edge. It has been frequently criticized for me-tooism and for getting it right the third time. Sometimes, marketing skill and bullying seemed also to be keys to its success. (To be fair, the creative use of those skills can also be regarded as a form of innovation.)
 Microsoft won huge business battles, starting with its domination of personal-computer software against Apple during the 1980s. A decade later, it made quick work of Netscape Communications, which popularized Web browsing in the mid-1990s.
 While Microsoft remains very profitable because of its lock on desktop software, its efforts to dislodge the Valley's leading third-generation Internet company, Google, have so far failed. 
 Google's central innovation, Internet search, has confounded Microsoft, despite investing billions in both technology development and numerous smaller acquisitions. Internet technology has overtaken the PC desktop as the center of the action, as people increasingly view the computer as merely a doorway to their virtual world. Google calls this phenomenon ''cloud computing.''
 Google, based in Mountain View, Calif., has been setting up giant data centers around the globe. It benefited from the software innovations of hundreds of nimble garage start-ups to develop programs that reach millions of users over the Web.
 It has unleashed the power of free -- not a new idea for the Valley -- to endear itself to a new generation of computer users with services they find they cannot live without, like e-mail, digital video and social networking.
 Now Microsoft is trying to make up ground by buying what it has not been able to build. To many technologists and entrepreneurs here, the deal does not indicate any imminent threat to the Valley's start-up culture or suggest that the region might go the way of Detroit; it underscores the health of the heartland that has produced waves of ever-more powerful technologies for more than half a century.
 There is a sense here among investors that Microsoft, as a more effective counterweight to Google, might actually serve to spur innovation in the Valley.
 ''When Microsoft was in the ascendancy, there were whole areas of investment that were of less interest to investors,'' said William R. Hearst III, an affiliated partner with the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. ''Now you could enter a new area and people will think that maybe one of the two colossuses will be interested in acquiring your start-up.''
 Innovation has been the driving force of Silicon Valley, and the results over the last quarter-century have been stunning. More than a billion personal computers are in use around the world. Cellphones are in the hands of three billion people. The next generation of mobile computers appears destined to reach another two billion people in just six more years.
 The productivity gains from these devices have driven the world's economy to faster economic growth and a higher standard of living for an ever-widening swath of the world's population.
 If Microsoft acquires Yahoo, some executives said, the question is whether it will shake its obsession with catching Google and instead look to the next generation of the Internet, even if it threatens Microsoft's dominant position in PC software.
 The bid for Yahoo ''underscores how Microsoft's hold on the personal computer desktop is meaning less,'' said Nicholas Carr, author of ''The Big Switch,'' which describes the consequences of Internet computing.
 In that sense, Microsoft may in a situation identical to the one faced by I.B.M. in the early 1980s. Dominant in the mainframe business and threatened by PCs, I.B.M. responded by quickly becoming the largest PC vendor.
 However, despite all of its manufacturing proficiency, the PC business was far less profitable and I.B.M. was unable to make that business work. It took a wrenching cultural change and the shedding of its management and tens of thousands of employees to regain its footing.
 Ultimately, Microsoft's challenge in making its new acquisition work will be a cultural one. Can the giant software maker -- which, incidentally, is based in Redmond, Wash., about 850 miles from Silicon Valley -- use a huge acquisition to tap into what makes the Valley tick? Will it force Microsoft to look forward instead of backward?
 To many, these questions frame the challenge that Microsoft confronts.
 ''To a large degree, it's the willingness to move on and abandon something,'' said David Liddle, a venture capitalist at U.S. Venture Partners. ''It's that ability to let something go and move on to the next big thing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (58%); INTEL CORP (56%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (52%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



91 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Earl L. Butz, 98; Secretary Felled by Remark

DATELINE: WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

 BODY:
Former Agriculture Secretary Earl L. Butz, who was forced from office in 1976 after making a racial joke and was once a dean at Purdue University, died Saturday. He was 98. 
 Mr. Butz had been in poor health recently and died during a family visit at his son's home in Washington, said Randy Woodson, dean of the College of Agriculture at Purdue.
 Mr. Butz, a farm economist and free-market advocate, had a relaxed and earthy style that won him acclaim as an after-dinner speaker but caused problems in his public life. Controversy began swirling around him after President Nixon appointed him secretary of agriculture in 1971. He figured in public disputes on issues like foreign grain sales and high meat prices.
 Mr. Butz was forced to resign in October 1976 after telling a joke that was derogatory to blacks. The slur was overheard by John W. Dean III, the White House counsel to Nixon who was jailed in the Watergate scandal, and Mr. Dean's report on it was published in Rolling Stone magazine.
 Two years earlier, Mr. Butz apologized to the Vatican after criticizing the Roman Catholic Church's stand on birth control by using a mock Italian accent while referring to the pope.
 ''Let's be honest, I'm controversial,'' he said at the time. ''I don't hesitate to speak my mind.''
 Earl Lauer Butz was raised on a 160-acre livestock farm in northeastern Indiana. He earned Purdue's first doctorate in agricultural economics, and later joined the school's agricultural economics faculty, eventually becoming head of the department.
 Mr. Butz was assistant secretary of agriculture from 1954 to 1957, during the Eisenhower administration. He then returned to Purdue and was dean of the School of Agriculture for the next 10 years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Earl L. Butz in 1976, the year he resigned as agriculture secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALLY FONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (83%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (68%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (54%)

COMPANY: ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); HOLY SEE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



92 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Other People's Money

BYLINE: By JONATHAN CHAIT. 
Jonathan Chait is a senior editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:
FREE LUNCH 
 How the Wealthiest Americans Enrich Themselves at Government Expense (and Stick You With the Bill). 
 By David Cay Johnston. 
 323 pp. Portfolio. $24.95. 
 Eight years ago, American liberalism split sharply in two over the Clinton economic record. The larger, more moderate faction deemed the departing administration to have done an exemplary job -- or at least a credible effort with a weak political hand -- shepherding economic growth and social justice. But a smaller, more populist faction recoiled at policies that sat comfortably with corporate America and allowed the very rich to pull farther away from the middle class. Ultimately, that populist critique became the basis of Ralph Nader's 2000 presidential campaign, which polled in the mid- to high single digits before settling at a lower, but still decisive, 2.74 percent of the vote.
 Seven years of George W. Bush has brought liberals together. The next Democratic program is already agreed upon. (Rescind the portion of the Bush tax cuts that benefit only the very rich, reform health care and take action to stem global warming.) The main arguments center on political style rather than first principles. 
 And yet ''Free Lunch,'' by David Cay Johnston, a reporter for The New York Times and the author of ''Perfectly Legal,'' reminds us that while left-wing populism has mostly receded into the background during the Bush years, it has not disappeared. Indeed, the movement is likely to return spitting mad if Democrats regain the White House.
 ''Free Lunch'' consists of 26 chapters, each a case study of a corporation enriching itself through lax or solicitous government: beggar-thy-neighbor state and local tax breaks to lure businesses, government subsidies for sports stadium construction, electricity deregulation and so on. The material comes from Johnston's journalism over the last three decades, supplemented by the contributions of several reporters he hired to help research the book (and the presence of all these hands may explain its choppy feel). The stories, generally convincing, are rendered in an unremitting tone of blunt, you're-getting-shafted outrage.
 The weakness of the book is its sudden leaps from tight-focus reporting to broad generalizations. The government, in Johnston's telling, is a tool of the rich: ''The net effect of our policies, the evidence for which is overwhelming, is that we are redistributing income up.'' In fact, the government's taxation disproportionately falls on the rich, and its spending disproportionately benefits the nonrich. Johnston documents many of the exceptions -- ways in which the rich gain special benefits or shirk their burdens -- and considers them the rule. 
 Both the style and the worldview of ''Free Lunch'' are unmistakably Naderite. The heroes are intrepid small-business owners, investigative reporters, plaintiffs and their lawyers, and, of course, Nader himself and his grass-roots organizations. While litigiousness has fallen out of fashion in most precincts of the left, Johnston embraces it as an instrument for social change, quite possibly overestimating the popular appeal of legal fantasies. (''Is there an American, feeling the sting of injustice,'' he writes, ''who has not vowed to fight all the way to the Supreme Court?'' Well, I haven't, and I suspect I'm not alone.) 
 Johnston portrays deregulation as evil almost as a matter of principle. (He even assails trucking deregulation, initiated under Jimmy Carter, which liberals up to and including such New Deal social democrats as Robert Kuttner have judged a success.) He regards corporations not as necessary entities that sometimes work at cross-purposes to the public interest but as inherently malevolent ones. The true visionaries, he suggests, believe that ''business is at all times engaged in a conspiracy against the public that ought not to be aided by government policies.'' 
 Of course, such views do not exactly predominate within the Democratic Party. ''The real split on Capitol Hill is not between the D's and the R's,'' Johnston writes, but between ''corporatists'' (the vast majority) and ''peoplists.'' His two examples of peoplists are the socialist Bernie Sanders and the libertarian Ron Paul -- and if you're surprised that the author would find common ground with a libertarian like Paul, keep in mind Johnston's view of government as a tool of the rich.
 The Bush years have offered a reminder that the difference between Republicans and the ''corporatist'' Democrats who previously inhabited the White House is fairly stark. But it's entirely possible that beginning in 2009 the political agenda will again be set by Democrats, and they won't be attacking American business writ large as engaged in a conspiracy against the public. Democrats might have more success holding together their coalition than they did from 1993 through 2000. ''Free Lunch'' demonstrates, however, that the left-wing populists haven't gone away and won't be satisfied with half-measures.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters outside the Chicago offices of Halliburton/KBR, 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TAX LAW (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); WRITERS (70%); JOURNALISM (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (67%); DEREGULATION (67%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (67%); CASE STUDIES (63%); ENERGY REGULATION (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008



93 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP PRECOLLEGE PROGRAMS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: In Summer, Hitting the Books, Not Just the Beach

BYLINE: By ROGER MUMMERT

 BODY:
WHEN Jeremy Grant of Roslyn, N.Y., was 16, he decided not to return for another summer of sleep-away camp, opting instead for a precollege program at U.C.L.A. In the mornings he took courses in SAT prep and public speaking; in the afternoons he hopped on a van to the beach, a museum, or a TV game show. 
 ''It was the best summer of my life,'' recalled Mr. Grant, now a sophomore at the University of Pennsylvania. ''It boosted my confidence to learn that I could get along on my own.''
At winter fairs in high schools around the country, precollege summer programs are now being pitched to teens and parents, many of whom see these ''taste-of-college-life'' programs as a vital part of the college planning process. Recession or not, interest in these programs, which can run as high as $7,800 for six weeks (excluding airfare), is intense, with many programs fully booked by early spring. 
 When it started offering precollege programs in 1986, Summer Discovery, which organized Mr. Grant's trip, sent just 170 students to U.C.L.A. Last year, the Long Island-based company had programs at 10 universities (three overseas), with more than 2,000 high school students participating. 
 Another company, Summer Study Programs of Melville, N.Y., sent 150 students to Penn State University when it began a precollege program there in 1992; this past year 600 attended the program, which includes college courses taught by accredited professors, Kaplan SAT prep classes and organized leisure activities. The company also has added programs in Paris and Boulder, Colo. Precollege programs let students choose classes that, in some cases, give them college credits -- and dress up a college admissions application. Students stay in dorms, use college gyms and dining halls. Perhaps best of all, to hear teens tell it, they live and travel without parents or camp counselors lording it over them. 
 ''We let 15- and 16-year-olds operate more like young adults,'' said Bob Musiker, executive director of Summer Discovery (888-878-6637; www.summerfun.com), adding that the responsibilities involved in a precollege program (picking courses, doing laundry) and the diverse mix of participants in the programs (like a ''mini-United Nations'') widen students' horizons.
 ''This is college but college on training wheels,'' said Jason Lubar, executive director of American Collegiate Adventures (800-509-7867; www.acasummer.com) of Chicago, which offers a precollege program at the University of Wisconsin in Madison that starts at $2,795 for two weeks and goes up to $6,795 for six weeks. While students may choose courses taught by university professors and mingle with college students on a big campus in a colorful college town, there is still a higher level of supervision to ensure safety.
 Precollege programs also benefit the university at a time when the college is open for summer session but when facilities are underutilized, said David Black, academic program manager at the University of Wisconsin. ''These programs showcase Wisconsin as a first-class university,'' he said. He added that they may also generate admissions applications from out-of-staters.
 Language and cultural immersion is another theme of summer programs. Summer Study Programs (800-666-2556; www.summerstudy.com) offers programs of three weeks ($5,195) or five weeks ($7,195) at the Sorbonne in Paris, with housing in an all-suites hotel near the university. Summer Discovery has a four-week program in Spain ($7,299) that includes stays at hotels in Madrid and Barcelona and on a college campus in Valencia.
 One of the newest trends in teen study programs is community service. Many high schools now have a community service requirement for graduation, and having spent a summer helping others may differentiate a college applicant or provide a fertile subject for an admissions essay. Rein Teen Tours of Wayne, N.J. (800-831-1313; www.reincommunityservice.com), which has offered teen tours for 23 years, created a community service division last year to meet a growing desire for helping others while on summer break.
 ''Kids who have done teen tours really want a unique experience where they give back,'' said Norman Rein, the company's owner. Rein's four-week Project California program ($5,899) is based at the University of California at Santa Barbara. Participants earn 80 hours of community service by working with children or animals, the environment, or at a food bank each morning. In the afternoon, they take elective classes that include photography, cooking, golf, tennis, surfing or SAT prep. Weekend excursions are to Hollywood studios and a water park in Palm Springs. 
 Another program offered by the company, called Project Hawaii, teaches participants about what Mr. Rein calls the ''nonexotic side'' of life in Hawaii. By day, students staff a day camp for underprivileged kids or work at an animal sanctuary located in a rain forest. By night, they have immersion activities in Hawaiian culture. Weekends are for fun and travel, Mr. Rein added; participants learn to snorkel in Maui and surf in Honolulu. The cost of this four-week program is $6,299.
 Students seeking still more exotic locales can find programs in South and Central America, South Pacific islands and Southeast Asia. Rustic Pathways (800-321-4353; www.rusticpathways.com) of Willoughby, Ohio, for instance, caters to the adventuresome -- and the socially conscious. In one new 24-day program, students work at an orphanage for children of a displaced ethnic minority in a hill tribe village in northern Thailand, near the border of Myanmar. On another program, participants bring one change of clothes and with $50 buy three weeks' worth of clothing at local markets before doing community service work in three hill tribe villages in Thailand. 
 ''This is not your typical tour-bus-type trip where you take some pictures and get back on board,'' said Jamie Spates, a director of the program, which costs $2,995 plus $85 for internal airfare. He explained that students sleep in a bamboo hut and take bucket showers. The program's motto: ''Come with nothing, go home rich.''
 Visions Service Adventures (800-813-9283; www.visionsserviceadventures.com) of Newport, Pa., operates three domestic service programs in addition to those around the globe. Domestic programs are three or four weeks long and range in price from $3,200 to $4,400. One work and residence program is in Turkey Creek, a neighborhood in Gulfport, Miss., that was settled by emancipated African-American slaves and which still is recovering from Hurricane Katrina. Another program offers interchange with spiritual leaders and naturalists on Plains Indian reservations in Montana. A third is in Alaska, where participants recently built a teen center in an Athabaskan village. 
 ''A lot of listening happens because we minimize iPods and cellphones,'' said Joanne Pinaire, a Visions program director.
 A ''get your hands dirty'' philosophy is embraced by Global Works of Boulder, Colo. (800-784-6362; www.globalworkstravel.com). Their summer work and travel projects have included renovating a school in Costa Rica, building nurses' stations in Fiji and helping with a reforestation project in Ecuador. ''When you travel the world, you're introduced to different areas like marine biology or politics,'' said Fritz Moriarty, a Global Works director. ''Kids come back passionate about something for the first time in their lives.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students taking a painting and drawing class in Florence, Italy, in a program offered by Summer Discovery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); ACCREDITATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); STUDENT HOUSING (70%); AIR FARES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (76%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



94 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Mormons Pay Their Respects To Leader

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY 

 BODY:
Most of the time, this city succeeds in projecting the secular, cosmopolitan image that its leaders and residents have polished over the years: the ski capital, the economic engine, the desert metropolis of wide streets and mountain vistas. 
 But at times like this, with a president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints lying in state in Temple Square, the old roots show, and the impulses that led to the city's founding as a religious capital in the 1840s are revealed again as if the frontier were new.
On Saturday, if only for a day, in saying goodbye to the Mormon church's 15th president, Gordon B. Hinckley, who died last weekend at age 97, Utah was Zion all over again, and all roads, at least for the faithful, led here. 
 Twenty-one thousand people packed the Latter-day Saints Conference Center, with broadcasts in 69 languages around the world to Mormon converts. Tens of thousands more had come earlier in the week to view Mr. Hinckley's remains, and many were still here. The Mormon Tabernacle Choir was in full-throated glory, singing several hymns with words by Mr. Hinckley himself.
 Mormon dignitaries lined the front rows, including former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, the Republican presidential hopeful, who arrived here on Friday night with two of his sons and his wife, Ann. The Romneys sat near Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, and Utah's Republican governor, Jon Huntsman Jr. Utah's two Republican senators, Bob Bennett and Orrin G. Hatch, rounded out the V.I.P. section.
 But the eulogies were simple, in keeping, perhaps, with Mr. Hinckley himself, who was described as self-effacing and always ready to poke fun at pretension, as he did some years back in walking into a meeting of senior church leaders in their dark suits, white shirts and conservative ties and telling them, by way of hello, that they all looked like penguins. People talked about how, in his 90s, urged to use a cane for balance, he instead adopted it as a prop -- waving it around, usually, to the dismay of his doctors and the delight of those who loved him.
 ''We have watched you grow old on stage,'' said one of the funeral orators, Earl C. Tingey, a senior church leader. ''We are better because of you.''
 Some of the ''talks,'' as the eulogies are called, described the deep personal connections that Mr. Hinckley, who had led the 13-million-member church since 1995, was able to make with many people beyond the faithful through his writing and his folksy, avuncular style.
 Mr. Hinckley sat for an interview with ''60 Minutes'' and wrote a book in 2000 called ''Standing for Something'' about ''neglected virtues that can heal our hearts and homes,'' which made The New York Times best-seller list in the advice and how-to category. He was the most traveled president in church history, visiting more than 60 countries and establishing dozens of temples to support the church's global missionary program.
 He had dreamed of being a journalist, according to a biography on the church's Web site, but after serving as a missionary in England in the 1930s, was asked to help write a new package of publicity materials so that missionaries could better explain the religion to potential converts. In many ways, he kept up that assignment the rest of his life, becoming one of the most visible church leaders in Mormon history. 
 One of the speakers, Boyd K. Packer, told the story of one of Mr. Hinckley's first days in his new assignment, how he had gone to the church office supply room and asked for a full ream of paper, 500 sheets.
 ''What do you suppose you're going to do with 500 sheets of paper?'' the incredulous supply clerk asked, as quoted by Mr. Packer.
 ''I am going to write on them one sheet at a time,'' Mr. Hinckley responded. 
 Missionary work -- Mormonism's face to people all over the world, through the conservatively dressed young men dispatched in pairs -- exploded under Mr. Hinckley's leadership. Over 400,000 were sent forth, about 40 percent of the total ever called. Almost one third of the current church membership joined under his presidency.
 Mr. Hinckley's passing comes at an awkward time for many Mormons, who have said in recent months that they feel themselves to be under a microscope as national attention focuses on Mr. Romney and his bid for the Presidency. The scrutiny, from magazine-cover discussions of what Mormons believe to national opinion polls about whether people would vote for a Mormon for president, has evoked a mix of feelings, from pride to consternation over the misconceptions the world shares about them.
 The public display of mourning for Mr. Hinckley this weekend -- downtown parking lots and restaurants full, streets near Temple Square streaming with families -- evoked an older array of emotions. The Mormons, after the church's founding in the early 1800s in upstate New York, came west in 1847, fleeing persecution but also carrying a heavy burden of destiny -- critics, then and now, have called it arrogance -- that they had found the one true Christian faith.
 In the voices of many mourners, that rock-ribbed certainty was the dominant expression.
 ''President Hinckley still lives,'' said Thomas S. Monson, who under church seniority rules is next in line to succeed Mr. Hinckley, and who gave the final talk. ''He is on a heavenly mission to others who await his influence and testimony.''
 But the funeral also underlined how recent the connections are to Utah's early settlement. Mr. Hinckley was only one generation removed from Utah's founding as a territory. His father was an 11-month-old baby in 1850 on the pioneer journey of converts. Big families have long been a hallmark of the Mormon culture. And the gathering of believers here this weekend reflected how deeply those old roots run as well, not even counting Mr. Hinckley's 25 grandchildren and 62 great-grandchildren.
 By 5 p.m. on Friday, for example, 20,000 people had streamed by to view Mr. Hinckley's body, and Brendo Simko's family was not unusual in the throng.
 ''I want to teach my children who the prophet was,'' said Ms. Simko, 38, who was standing in line on Friday afternoon with her five children, ages 1 to 12. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RELIGION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SKIING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (90%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (57%); ROBERT BENNETT (56%); JON HUNTSMAN (54%); ORRIN HATCH (54%); HARRY REID (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



95 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Letters: A Saudi City Is Born

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''The Construction Site Called Saudi Arabia'' (Jan. 20), which described the Saudis' huge investment in building new cities, underscored an essential front in the war on terror: economic development in the Middle East. 
 For decades, many of the kingdom's youth have floundered in a society that is one of the richest on earth. It is relief to see that the kingdom's rulers have chosen to use much of the proceeds from the recent rise in oil prices for the kinds of projects that will benefit ordinary Saudi citizens. This is precisely the kind of policy that the United States government should support in Middle Eastern nations, especially those it counts as close allies.
 This front in the war on terror that may well end up saving American lives and strengthening the United States economy through development of overseas markets and investment opportunities. Brandon Neblett
 Baltimore, Jan. 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



96 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Flood States With Ads as Tuesday Nears

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton have unleashed advertisements in nearly all the 22 states that have Democratic presidential nominating contests on Tuesday, a combined $19 million expenditure that is the most ambitious and geographically expansive television effort in a presidential primary.
 On the Republican side, Senator John McCain and Mitt Romney have a far more restrained advertising effort that started just this weekend and is focusing on a handful of states and national cable television.
Faced with the challenge of getting their messages out to nearly half the country for a single day of voting, the candidates are taking to the airwaves in a concentrated burst of advertising that includes individual advertisements tailored to specific concerns of different parts of the country. The sweep of advertising has put their strategies out in the open and has highlighted the diverging financial fortunes of the two parties.
 The complexity of the delegate allocation rules has prompted the campaigns to make decisions about advertising that are unlike what would be made in a general election. And the sheer number of contests has ruled out the retail politicking the candidates practiced in Iowa and New Hampshire. That has forced the candidates to choose between paying for advertising or relying on the kindness of free news coverage, as Mr. McCain has done. 
 The advertisements are striking in that they are devoid of any overt attacks on opponents. (Though Mr. Romney has reprised an advertisement in which he attacks Mrs. Clinton.) After weeks in which the race in both parties has featured flashes of intense personal animosity, the candidates all seem to have decided that they need to introduce and define themselves for a broad swath of the country in positive terms, especially since the compressed calendar gives them no time for a second chance.
 Mr. Obama, of Illinois, has run advertisements in 21 of the 22 states that will hold Democratic primaries or caucuses. Mrs. Clinton, of New York, has run advertisements in 16 of those states. His campaign has aimed advertisements on different issues at particular cities in an effort to tailor his message to the concerns of voters.
 Voters in Hartford and Fargo, for example, are watching advertisements for Mr. Obama decrying Wall Street abuses and talking about tax cuts. The advertisements seek to address the economic anxiety that polls suggest is rife in those parts of the country. (''Stock markets in turmoil, jobs in jeopardy, fear of recession,'' the announcer says.)
 In Minneapolis and Albuquerque, audiences are seeing advertisements that include battle scenes from the Iraq war, reflecting Mr. Obama's effort to emphasize his early opposition to the war in a part of the country where antiwar sentiment appears high. ''We can end a war,'' reads the message on the screen, over a backdrop of Mr. Obama talking and rousing rock music playing. ''We can save a planet.''
 Most of Mrs. Clinton's advertisements are keyed to economic anxiety, a subject she has increasingly addressed. Voters across the country are seeing what has become her signature advertisement on the economy: a man dropped from a plane and hurtling toward the ground -- an image intended to capture an economy in free fall -- until his parachute engages, presumably suggesting what a second Clinton presidency might do for the economy. 
 But she, too, has aimed specific advertisements at specific states or groups. In California, for example, she has run advertisements about the environment and energy. ''We have to get serious about ending our dependence on foreign oil,'' she says in that spot. And on Saturday, an advertisement featuring Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who is supporting her, will begin running in Massachusetts and New York -- seeking to counter Obama advertisements that feature Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of former President John F. Kennedy, who have endorsed Mr. Obama and campaigned for him.
 The advertising strategies reflect strategic calculations by the candidates as they navigate the different Republican and Democratic delegate rules.
 In many states for Republicans, the candidate who wins the popular vote captures all the delegates. But for Democrats, delegates are awarded proportionally by Congressional district, so it makes sense for a candidate to advertise in selective areas in hopes of winning a share of the delegates -- which is what Mr. Obama is doing.
 ''We are in a world in which delegates matter,'' said Ken Goldstein, a political science professor and the director of the Wisconsin Advertising Project at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, which just completed a study of campaign expenditures to date. ''Obama's got money, and there's a different definition of competitiveness. General election competitiveness is, Can you win? Primary competitiveness is, Can you come close and win delegates?''
 Mr. Obama has spent $10.9 million on advertisements in the states voting on Tuesday; his first expenditure was Jan. 12, according to officials from both campaigns. Mrs. Clinton has spent about $8 million, starting on Jan. 17 in California. Between them, they have spent at least $1.3 million a day for the last week on television advertising in the states voting on Tuesday, said Evan Tracey, chief operating officer of the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising. 
 Most of this money has been expended in just two weeks. By comparison, all the presidential candidates spent a total of $43 million in Iowa and $32 million in New Hampshire, according to a report from the Wisconsin Advertising Project. In those states, advertising ran for months before the votes.
 Illinois, Mr. Obama's home state, is the one place where neither Mrs. Clinton nor Mr. Obama is advertising. Of the five other states where Mrs. Clinton is not advertising, four -- Alaska, Colorado, Kansas and Minnesota -- have caucuses, the kind of competition that aides to both candidates believe gives an edge to Mr. Obama. In the fifth state, Georgia, Mr. Obama is looking to do well, in part because of the state's large black population.
 Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain began their television effort on Friday; there were no specific figures available on their spending, though it appeared to be about $2 million for Mr. Romney and about $1 million for Mr. McCain. Mr. Romney, again reaching into his own pockets, bought television advertisements across California and on national cable television, a venue rarely used in a primary campaign. 
 That is a significant drop-off in spending by Mr. Romney over earlier in the primary season, a decision his advisers said reflected the paucity of Mr. McCain's efforts and the different demands of competing across the country. 
 Mr. Romney reprised an old advertisement asserting that his background as governor of Massachusetts and chief executive of the 2002 Winter Olympics gave him the experience to be president. Mr. McCain's advertisement suggested that he was more intent on addressing concerns about him among conservatives than the challenge of Mr. Romney. Speaking to the camera, he invokes Ronald Reagan and describes himself as ''a proud social conservative who will never waver.''
 The advertisements by Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton offered insights into their strategic decisions and challenges. Mrs. Clinton has shown a decided edge among women over Mr. Obama this year; Mr. Obama's advertisements are filled with images of women, including several that feature elected officials who have endorsed him, including Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas and Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona. 
 Mr. Obama uses these endorsers to offer an implicit criticism of Mrs. Clinton, something he is not doing himself. For example, Ms. Napolitano says, ''Barack Obama doesn't just tell people what they want to hear.''
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are running Spanish-language advertisements, mostly in California, testimony to the importance of Hispanic voters in so many states. In one, Mr. Obama is introduced in Spanish and speaks in English in a clear effort to deal with the reluctance of some Hispanic voters to rally behind a black candidate.
 ''Hope is what led me here today,'' he says, his words translated into Spanish subtitles. ''With a father from Kenya, a mother from Kansas and a story that can only happen in the United States of America.'' 
 Both campaigns use their candidates as the main star. Mrs. Clinton is shown talking to the camera or to small groups of voters, which has been a strength for her. Mr. Obama is repeatedly shown talking to big, energized -- and young -- crowds that often roar their approval.
 Aides to both campaigns said that the decisions had been complicated given the varying rules. Mr. Obama has put more of his resources into states with caucuses, which tend to draw the party's most committed voters. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama started advertising early in California not just because of its size, but because the state allows people to begin casting votes early.
 ''There's a little bit of a chess game with the ads,'' said Mr. Tracey of the Campaign Media Analysis Group. ''When all is said and done, there will be a lot of re-examining of all these decisions. This one will get plowed over pretty hard.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney, above left, with Senator Orrin G. Hatch, took a break from the race Saturday for the funeral of Gordon B. Hinckley, the Mormon leader. Meanwhile, Senator John McCain, above right, campaigned in Nashville
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton was in Los Angeles with Magic Johnson
and Senator Barack Obama was in Boise, Idaho, where a youngster showed his support. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
An advertisement for Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign suggests the economy in free fall, rescued by a Clinton parachute.
 Barack Obama is advertising in all 22 states with Democratic contests on Tuesday except his home state, Illinois. (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); IRAQ WAR (60%); POP & ROCK (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); ORRIN HATCH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



97 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4504 words

HEADLINE: 16 Ways of Looking at a Female Voter

BYLINE: By LINDA HIRSHMAN. 
Linda Hirshman is the author of ''Get to Work: A Manifesto for Women of the World.'' This is her first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
 1. The Female Thing
FOR MONTHS before the presidential primaries began, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton was widely held to lead among women voters. That she would naturally appeal to her own sex accounted in no small part for her front-runner status. By the end of last year, national polls showed not only that Clinton was ahead but also that women supported her by 8 points more than men did.
 But in the Iowa caucus her lead turned out, to use a Clinton phrase, to be more talk than action: 35 percent of female Iowa Democrats went for Senator Barack Obama while only 30 percent stood up for Hillary -- and Obama won. Was Iowa an isolated case? Or had women voters turned their backs on Hillary? 
 Various explanations surfaced. A WNBC television reporter suggested that ''somewhere along the line she lost the narrative of the first female president as a huge change.'' A blogger on The Huffington Post decided that what women needed wasn't change; it was the whole truth and nothing but the truth: ''Women are too smart, informed and astute at reading between the lines to back a presidential candidate who isn't being straight with them -- especially when she is a woman.'' The snarky Washington-based blog Wonkette proposed that maybe Hillary lacked a certain something and that Barack Obama, well, had it. ''I think Chris Matthews said,'' the post read, ''that we're all voting for Obama because we want to date him, but they were showing a picture of Obama at the time, and I heard birds singing and bells ringing and missed it.''
 Then in New Hampshire, things suddenly changed: 46 percent of women in the Democratic primary voted for Hillary compared with 34 percent for Obama, giving Clinton the victory. Was it the welling up? Was it the specter, three days earlier, of those male candidates piling up on her during a debate? Was it because the debate's moderator questioned how likable she was? The Times columnist Gail Collins briefly summed up the theories for Hillary's victory -- ''Do women Obama's age look at him and see the popular boy who never talked to them in high school? Did they relate to Clinton's strategy of constantly reminding her audiences that she's been working for reform for 35 years?'' -- and then added her own. Hillary, she wrote, ''was a stand-in for every woman who has overdosed on multitasking.'' As Collins saw it, women simply wanted to get their own back: ''They grabbed at the opportunity to have kids/go back to school/start a business/become a lawyer. But there are days when they can't meet everybody's needs, and the men in their lives -- loved ones and otherwise -- make them feel like failures or towers of self-involvement. And the deal is that they can either suck it up or look like a baby.'' 
 There was one thing the commentators seemed to agree on. Women in Iowa and New Hampshire -- whether they voted for or against Hillary -- were doing so for the same reason: because she was a woman. 
 2. Mind the Gender Gap
 IN 1920, just as American women got the vote, the New York League of Women Voters tried to defeat a sitting senator, James Wadsworth Jr. The league didn't beat Wadsworth that year, but his ally Gov. Nathan Miller nonetheless later denounced the league as a ''menace'' to ''our free institutions.'' There is no more need for a League of Women Voters, he declared, than for a League of Men Voters. He need not have worried -- women didn't begin to vote as often as men or differently from men for decades. 
 It wasn't until Ronald Reagan's victory in 1980 that observers first noticed the ''gender gap'': men supported Reagan by 8 percentage points more than women did. Of course, more women supported the incumbent, President Jimmy Carter, than did men. And ever since, women have been more likely than men to favor Democrats. Both parties have tried a variety of strategies to open or close the gender gap: nominating a woman for vice president (Geraldine Ferraro), pretending there was no difference, collecting women into smaller subgroups (soccer moms, security moms), emphasizing feminist issues (equal opportunity, reproductive rights), emphasizing economics (health, welfare, child care). A host of feminist institutions -- the Democratic pro-choice political action committee Emily's List; the nonpartisan White House Project, which promotes political activity among women -- have arisen to try to drive up the numbers and harness the power of the women's vote.
 Despite these efforts, the gender gap has neither widened nor narrowed much. It spiked in 1996, when women supported Bill Clinton by 11 percentage points more than men did, and again in 2000, when women favored Al Gore by 12 points. But because the gap describes the difference between how many men and women vote for a single party's candidate, it doesn't necessarily tell us whether women themselves are split. In the election 28 years ago that first pointed to the existence of a so-called gender gap, women still preferred Reagan by 46 percent to Carter's 45 percent. More women may have voted for Carter than men did, but even more voted for Reagan. 
 3. Race Matters--and Class, Too
 RACE FACTORS into the gender gap in two important ways. In 2004, for example, the nonwhite female vote was 12 percent of the electorate; the nonwhite male vote was 10 percent. So when polled, women as a group were less ''white'' than men were -- and nonwhite women are more likely to vote Democratic than white women are. Second, nonwhite women are more likely to vote Democratic than nonwhite men (75 percent to 67 percent in 2004). In other words, nonwhite women make ''women'' more Democratic than the nonwhite men make ''men'' Democratic. In 2004, 55 percent of white women actually favored George Bush.
 And as it does for men, economic status can affect how women vote. In a recent national poll of Democrats and Democratic-leaning voters by the Pew Research Center, Hillary Clinton led Barack Obama among women in every category but two: self-described liberals and college graduates. Among college graduates, he is 3 points ahead. And whereas among women with incomes of more than $50,000, Clinton leads Obama by a mere 5 percentage points, among those who earn less, she leads by 36 points.
 4. Winning Women Isn't the Same as Winning
 WITH THE possible exception of 1996, women have never voted a candidate into the White House when men thought the other guy should win. (Bill Clinton's so-called gender-based victory depended on splitting the male vote with Bob Dole. In other words, women did not have to overcome fierce resistance in order to prevail.) In the 2004 election, there was a gender gap in virtually every demographic -- among old folks, married people, single people, squirrel hunters -- but the gender gap still did not offset the robust men's vote. If men are Republican enough, the Republicans need not care whether the women are less enthusiastic about them than men are.
 5. Besides, Women Keep an Open Mind
 STILL, THERE are ways in which women, as a group, behave differently than men. According to the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University, women in 2004 made up a higher percentage of undecided and swing voters than men. In an independent survey conducted in October 2004, women accounted for 60 percent of undecided likely voters. 
 Just before the primary season began last month, the Norman Lear Center at the University of Southern California and Zogby International released their ''National Survey on Politics and Entertainment,'' which juxtaposes Americans' cultural lives and their political views. They found that 62 percent of the ''moderates'' -- those with middling and flexible positions on the issues -- were women. Pollsters grouped respondents according to how they indicated their degree of agreement with certain statements. The Lear subjects clustered into three clear groups: blue, or liberal; red, or conservative; and purple, or moderate, who were 24 percent of those surveyed. Although no one was very surprised when the liberal group turned out to be 57 percent female, Johanna Blakley, deputy director of the Lear Center and a lead researcher on the project, said she found it ''absolutely unbelievable'' that 62 percent of the moderates were female. She had always thought of moderates as male independents, alienated from politics. 
 When asked to identify their party, the female moderates, it turned out, were actually more Democratic than Republican, but like most women, they voted only somewhat more for John Kerry than for George Bush in the 2004 presidential election. ''They don't see the political world as legible, especially in the media,'' Blakley suggested. ''That's why they misidentify themselves, these words don't make sense to them, they don't have a value and a weight that makes sense to them, a narrative for politics.'' 
 6. What About the Middle Ground?
 WHEN IT comes to politics, it's not just that women are ambivalent; it's that, as a group, they are less interested than men are -- not all women, naturally, but on average. In a 2006 University of Michigan survey, 42 percent of men responded that they were ''very interested'' in government and public affairs, compared with 34 percent of women. At the uninterested end, women were more likely to say that they were only ''somewhat interested'' -- 60 percent of female respondents compared with 54 percent of male respondents. 
 These differences -- give or take a few percentage points -- have persisted for at least 20 years. Studies have turned up many explanations for the difference -- education, partisanship, sex-role socialization -- but the interest-gap remains. The only area where the gap narrows is in local politics, where women score close to men. Not surprisingly, less interest translates into less knowledge.
 In their 1996 study of Americans' political knowledge, ''What Americans Know About Politics and Why It Matters,'' Scott Keeter, director of survey research at the Pew organization, and his co-author, Michael X. Delli Carpini, dean of the University of Pennsylvania's Annenberg School of Communication, reported that on average, men outscored women by more than 9 percentage points on all political questions; by 15 points when asked to name their governor; by 10 on the identity of either of their senators. (It is true that women sometimes say that don't know when they do, but this accounts for only about a quarter of the knowledge gap.) 
 In a separate survey done before the current election cycle, Pew asked men and women which of the Democratic candidates is Hispanic, what Mitt Romney's religion is, the name of the current speaker of the House, what position Robert Gates holds, which party has the House majority and how many U.S. troops have died in Iraq. The men outscored the women on every question, with the widest gap being the name of the secretary of defense (there was an 18 point difference between the number of men who answered correctly and the number of women who did) and the smallest that Mitt Romney is a Mormon (2 points). Many more men (13 points) knew the rough number of U.S. troop casualties in Iraq and that Nancy Pelosi is speaker of the House (6 points). 
 7. The Gap That Matters
 THE PEW Research Center for the People and the Press has been following the gender divide in news consumption in great detail for years. This is what that gap looks like: 
 POLITICAL INTERESTS MEN WOMEN
 International affairs 63% 37%
 News about Washington 59 41
 Local government 55 45
 While men are more likely to follow international, national and local politics, women are more likely to attend to religion, health and entertainment, community, culture and the arts, crime and the weather. Men are significantly more likely than women to be regular consumers of ''hard news'' (32 percent of men versus 22 percent of women), and to turn to the Internet, radio news, talk radio, newspapers, political comedy shows and political talk shows. Women, by contrast, are more likely to get their news from the morning news broadcasts and network news programs. Although morning shows do offer news, they tend toward true crime, entertainment and lifestyle, and they regularly put a human-interest spin on government and foreign affairs. 
 Even if you factor in all the ways in which people gather news -- women supposedly also get political information from the groups they join and from the people they know -- and control for political affiliations, race and class, men still know more about politics than women do. The audiences for programs like ''The Daily Show'' and ''The Rush Limbaugh Show,'' those on National Public Radio and the Web sites of national newspapers all scored significantly higher on political knowledge -- defined as familiarity with public figures and political policies -- than those surveyed who were not part of those audiences. Of all of these outlets, only NPR has an audience that's roughly half female. 
 Of course, a quick glance at the numbers confirms that a lot of people, of both sexes, are hardly following the news at all. Most voters aren't policy wonks. It may well be that there's a base line of information that is ''good enough'' for citizenship, and knowing more makes little practical difference. But there is a strong correlation between knowledge and political participation. In most aspects of political action -- candidacy, fund-raising, proselytizing, propagandizing -- men predominate.
 8. What Makes Women Tune Out
 A RECENT report assembled by the Shorenstein Center at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government suggests that the absence of women in journalism and on television news programs reduces the likelihood that women will form a significant part of the audience. Most hard-core news programs have hardly any women participants at all: a 2001 White House Project study reported that on the Sunday-morning talk shows, only 11 percent of the guests were women. A follow-up study in 2005 showed the percentage had increased by only 3 points. Similarly, a 2005 Project for Excellence in Journalism study found that only one-third of news accounts cited any female sources at all. 
 9. Pride and Prejudice
 NOT ONLY do fewer women turn to outlets with predominantly male sources for information, but studies also tie women to what scholars call the negative-media effect. Women will sometimes back a candidate because the media they distrust are backing his or her rival. 
 There was a lot of speculation after the turnaround in New Hampshire that MSNBC's ''Hardball'' host, Chris Matthews, was at least partly responsible for Clinton's surge when he gleefully declared Hillary all but dead and buried after her Iowa loss. Although there is no way to know how many women decided to vote for Clinton in response to the news media's attacks on her, Rebecca Traister, a columnist for the online magazine Salon and a self-declared anti-Hillaryite, was not alone in giving voice to the impulse. ''The torrent of ill-disguised hatred and resentment unleashed toward a briefly weakened Clinton,'' she wrote, ''made me feel something that all the hectoring from feminist elders could not: guilt for not having stood up for Hillary. I can't believe I'm saying this, but had I been a New Hampshire voter on Tuesday, I would have pulled a lever for the former first lady.''
 10. XX Marks the Spot
 HISTORICALLY, THERE is no reason to believe that women, even Democratic women, will automatically support a female candidate. As Nancy Burns, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, demonstrated in a recent article in the journal Politics and Gender, women, like men, have multiple commitments and connections, which pull their electoral loyalties in many directions. And because women's lives are intimately connected with those of men, women are a little harder to organize than, say, a segregated racial minority. Burns also maintained that ''gender consciousness,'' far from helping women to organize themselves politically, has little power to generate political action, and that its influence has ''waned over the last 30 years.''
 On the other hand, the presence of a female candidate is consistently bracing to women voters -- even if they don't end up voting for her. In their book, ''The Private Roots of Public Action,'' the political scientists Nancy Burns, Kay Lehman Schlozman and Sidney Verba found that for women, ''living in a state with a statewide female politician has a significant impact on each of the components of psychological engagement with politics: political information, interest and efficacy.'' Women are more likely, for instance, to know the name of their state's U.S. senator or Senate candidate if a woman held or was competing for the office. Seeing themselves as part of the political arena encourages women to get involved.
 Page Gardner, who founded Women's Voices Women Vote, an organization dedicated to increasing voter turnout among single women, reports that female candidates are traditionally ''very motivational'' to her constituency. (Single women vote less frequently than married women, by 13 percent.) 
 The degree to which women participated in recent primary elections suggests that a female candidate does increase turnout among women. In both the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary, 57 percent of those who voted were women, up 3 points from 2004. In Nevada, women made up nearly 60 percent of the record 116,000 Democratic caucusgoers. 
 11. When Sisterhood Is Power
 MOST OF the data on the gender gap are gathered from research collected in the general elections. In the primaries, that gap cannot be explained simply by the fact that women tend to favor Democratic over Republican policies. To a degree, the recent primaries are taking place in virgin territory. Not only is there a female candidate in the Democratic presidential race, but a robust, viable female candidate, someone with a powerful organization, a large checkbook and a legendary campaigner at her side. 
 From the beginning, Mark Penn, Hillary Clinton's chief strategist, bet that women would propel Clinton to victory. Though Penn has taken a lot of flak for this statement, it would seem a solid prediction. In the New Hampshire Democratic primary, Clinton scored 17 points higher with women than she did with men. And exit polls in Nevada showed that Clinton won the backing of 51 percent of women voters, while Obama took about 38 percent. More important, in Nevada, Hillary's support among women was large enough to offset Obama's support among men, which gave her the popular vote.
 Were women just waiting for a viable female candidate to form a bloc? 
 12. More Sense Than Sensibility
 SAMUEL L. POPKIN, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego, who has worked as a consultant to political campaigns, maintains that unless voters know how government works, they can't read the cues about their legislators' intentions and priorities and rely on ''estimates of personal character instead of their attitudes about parties and issues.'' 
 Of course, recent work, like that of Drew Westen, a psychologist and the author of ''The Political Brain,'' suggests that voters are more driven by their emotions than by any informed summing-up of their interests. (Westen's brain studies, incidentally, were done on men.) But even if voters act, as Westen says, on their feelings toward their party and its candidate more than on their understanding of the issues, they can't begin to form those feelings if they don't know something about the parties, candidates and issues. As Popkin has noted, a party is really just shorthand for a series of issue positions -- you love your party because it stands for what you stand for. 
 So, if women as a group know less, does that mean they are more or less emotional when it comes to voting? Perhaps there's another way to pose the question. Maybe, as Ann Lewis, the director of women's outreach for the Clinton campaign, told me recently, it's that men are the emotional ones, ''more likely to get swept away in abstract ideas and symbolism, '' and that women are simply more practical. ''They may not frame their decisions in terms of policy or party positions -- not use legislative jargon -- but they know what's in their family's interest,'' she said.
 Marion Just, a political science professor at Wellesley who worked on the Kennedy School's Shorenstein report, agrees. She characterizes the female agenda as focusing mainly on ''family, education, things that affect the household budget, health care.'' Which today, she adds, also means war and peace. Similarly, Page Gardner told me that for her single-women constituents, it's ''all about economic opportunity -- health, education for their children, wages, energy costs.'' 
 13. It Does Take a Village
 ''I UNDERSTOOD the networks for women's issues -- Emily's List, breast cancer,'' Ann Lewis also told me, explaining her outreach work. ''Women naturally think of working with other women in network form, talking to each other about what's important.'' The women's outreach for Hillary started with the legendary Clinton Rolodex -- Friends of Hillary -- in Washington, in New York, in Arkansas, in Chicago. Once Clinton received endorsements from female elected state officials, the network spread to the endorsers' networks. ''In my experience, all elected women at the state level have a network,'' Lewis observed, ''and they are still in touch. Our campaign talks to the women who are already engaged, and then we encourage them to reach out to the ones who are less engaged.''
 ''My goal, on Day 1,'' Lewis went on to say, ''was to have 100 women e-mailing 100 e-mails'' to their social networks, soliciting support for the candidate. The campaign has also focused on the issues they thought would attract women's support, starting with events around Equal Pay Day last spring. ''The polling confirms what common sense will tell you,'' Lewis said. ''Economics, health care, education, their own retirement.''
 14. Or a Cybervillage
 THE OBAMA campaign has also identified a woman-to-woman strategy. In addition to recruiting women through field offices, the Obama campaign signed up women on its Web site, creating ''a 20,000-woman network.'' Becky Carroll, the 36-year-old national director of Women for Obama, says that that's the most important part of how they reach out to women, but that Women for Obama is not confined to traditional networking. They have ''girls' nights out'' where ''young, professional women host cocktail parties'' and book clubs around Obama's book ''The Audacity of Hope.'' Carroll also speaks proudly of using ''new media in a very important way -- a really aggressive outreach through our own blog, crossposts on hundreds of other blogs, a campaign newsletter.'' As a result, Carroll says, women have formed a ''grass-roots movement,'' doing things on their own initiative. 
 Carroll's strategy has been to use the Internet to have voters hear directly from the Obama campaign. Certainly Obama's oratorical skill is a vivid reminder of the role of rhetoric to inspire political commitment, and he has done extremely well with young women voters, those most likely to be wired. 
 15. The Political Is Personal
 IN HIS essay ''Federalist No. 10,'' James Madison worried that small republics, where politics are conducted face to face, were necessarily unstable. The constitution solved this problem by expanding the scope of representative government so that interests would be diluted. The framework turned out to be quite functional for an expanding land-based empire with a diverse population. But the system always rested on the assumption that people would work to represent their interests. The aversion of many women to big-sphere politics would seem to weaken the system and ensure that their interests will be muffled. 
 Yet what Samuel Popkin, the political scientist at U.C., San Diego, describes as an emphasis on personality versus issues, Page Gardner frames as marginalized citizens anxiously trying to figure out how to play the political game to get what they need -- a very conventional political behavior. No less a figure than Carol Gilligan, the feminist scholar who first posited that women express themselves in a different voice, reminded me that she never said a woman's tendency to value relational connections excluded the self. ''Coming forward with their own voices is key to citizenship in a democratic republic,'' Gilligan told me. ''Women are using their emotional intelligence and relational intelligence to read the biographies to figure out if this is a trustworthy person.''
 And when women do come forward, they alter the political landscape. Scott Keeter, of the Pew organization, and Michael Delli Carpini, of the University of Pennsylvania, found that as knowledge increases, ''both single and married men become slightly more conservative, while married women move slightly in the liberal direction and single women become quite a bit more liberal.'' These changes lead to a clear gender and marriage gap on domestic-welfare issues. As Keeter and Carpini concluded in their study: ''A fully informed citizenry would have collective consequences, resulting in a public-opinion environment that is more ideologically diverse and slightly more liberal.'' It may happen sooner than we think. According to Women's Voices Women Vote, the single-female-voter demographic shifted 32 points in the five days between Iowa and New Hampshire. As their advocate Page Gardner says: ''You'd better be paying attention. Because they're up for grabs.'' 
 16. By the Numbers
 SINCE 1964, more women have voted than men have, and since 1980, they have voted at higher percentages: 54 percent of voters in the 2004 presidential election were female. If women care less about politics than men do, why do they bother? In one recent study, women said that they vote to protect their interest. Whereas men said they vote because they enjoy politics. To a campaign strategist, the female vote -- if you can get it -- must look like the Chinese market does to an entrepreneur. Only a modest percentage has to want your product, and you'll succeed beyond your wildest dreams. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2008; February 02, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Feb. 3 about women's voting patterns misidentified the legislative body of which James W. Wadsworth Jr., whom the New York League of Women Voters tried to unseat in 1920, was a member. It was the United States Senate, not the New York State Senate.
 Because of an editing error, an article on Page 38 of The Times Magazine this weekend about voting patterns among women referred incorrectly to the questions in a Norman Lear Center/Zogby International poll used to help discern those patterns. Respondents were asked to indicate their degree of agreement with certain statements; the questions were not true-or-false or open-ended. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN LEWIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. PROP STYLIST: MARK CHANDLER. STYLIST: COURTNEY WEINBLATT.) (pg.MM39, 40, 41, 42, 43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); WRITERS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



98 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Letters: The Education of Ben Bernanke

 BODY:
Roger Lowenstein's article (Jan. 20) was extremely informative about the evolution of Ben Bernanke's philosophical and scientific approach to Fed policy. Lowenstein says that when Bernanke took over as Fed chairman, he ''knew more about central banking than any economist alive.'' A troubling contradiction arises, however, when Lowenstein asserts that, although Bernanke ''knew the experience of the 1930s in his sleep, he was, in truth, unfamiliar with the exotic mortgage instruments that were failing now.'' 
 The Fed chairman claims to have ''failed to foresee that the sudden rise in homeowner defaults . . . would have such far-reaching effects.''
But to believe that Bernanke, with access to exponentially more insider information than most of us, as well as a deep knowledge of history, failed to see that they could have far-reaching effects seems unlikely. 
 The real question is why he didn't say anything. By remaining silent, he allowed a bad situation to get much, much worse. It's possible the investment banks were not forthcoming about the extent of their practice of bundling subprime junk with more secure prime loans into exotic derivatives instruments, expanding the damage even further. If Bernanke was misled in that regard, he has good reason to be mad and should be condemning the lack of fiduciary responsibility of everyone involved and arguing for long-overdue regulation of a derivatives market run amok. Instead, he is bailing the gamblers out as much as he can, with more cheap money, to help them pay for their shenanigans. Perhaps because he knows the Fed is also partly to blame.
 JOSEPH URLA
 New York
 Lowenstein's article was superb, but I have a caution about the suggestion that the Taylor Rule ''has downsized'' the chairman's job to some extent. In real time, using the Taylor Rule requires estimating a statistic that is purely conjectural -- the current value of the ''output gap'' between actual and potential gross domestic product. In real time, we have a pretty good estimate of actual G.D.P., but the level and rate of growth of potential G.D.P. are projections. 
 The main reason the economy performed so well in the late 1990s was that the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, mistrusted the consensus estimates of potential output and determined that higher growth and lower unemployment rates than the consensus predicted could be achieved without causing a rise in inflation. Using the Taylor Rule requires deep insight into productivity and labor and product markets. It's not a downsized job.
 CORNELIA STRAWSER
 Washington 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIGEL PARRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



99 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Pro-West Incumbent Wins Serbia's Presidential Runoff

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia 

 BODY:
Boris Tadic, Serbia's pro-Western incumbent, won the presidential runoff election Sunday in a closely contested race that was seen as having the potential to determine whether this poor Balkan nation would turn toward the West or revert to the nationalism and isolationism of the past.
 The state electoral commission and independent vote monitors said that Mr. Tadic, 50, a former psychology teacher who advocates closer ties with the European Union and the United States, won about 51 percent of the vote, compared with 47 percent for the nationalist Radical Party candidate, Tomislav Nikolic. The remaining ballots were ruled invalid. 
 Mr. Nikolic conceded victory to Mr. Tadic on Sunday night. Mr. Nikolic, 55, a former cemetery worker called ''the Undertaker'' by opponents, supported Slobodan Milosevic's bloody wars in the 1990s to expand Serbian power and wants Serbia to forge closer ties with Russia.
 As the polls closed Sunday evening, monitors forecast that the final turnout would reach 67 percent, compared with 61 percent in the first round two weeks ago. That would be the highest turnout since 2000, when Mr. Milosevic was ousted after more than a decade in power. 
 As the results were announced, Mr. Tadic's supporters took to the streets of Belgrade in raucous celebrations, waving Serbian and European Union flags, not far from where democracy protesters who helped remove Mr. Milosevic had once gathered.
 Mr. Tadic, who made potential European Union membership the centerpiece of his campaign, said before the vote that he was confident that Serbs would move toward the European Union and ''not return to isolation.'' 
 The European Union on Sunday welcomed the results, saying it wished to encourage the country's progress toward membership. 
 The election was a test of the European and American aim of bringing stability to the Balkans and of Moscow's goal of expanding its influence there.
 The issue of the future of Kosovo, the breakaway province that Serbs consider their medieval heartland, loomed over the vote.
 Serbia, backed by Moscow, is vehemently opposed to the independence for Kosovo, which has been under United Nations control since 1999, after NATO intervened to halt Mr. Milosevic's repression of Kosovo's majority ethnic Albanians. The European Union and the United States support independence for Kosovo and have promised to compensate Serbia by accelerating its integration into the West.
 Both candidates emphasized in their campaigns that Kosovo should remain part of Serbia. But while Mr. Tadic called for Serbs to embrace the European Union, Mr. Nikolic argued that Serbia should punish the West for its support of an independent Kosovo by turning to Russia instead.
 European Union diplomats said they were optimistic that Mr. Tadic would work to cement Serbia's ties with the union and with the United States. But they cautioned that a slim margin of victory could push him to mollify Serbian anger over Kosovo by downgrading diplomatic ties with countries that recognize the province's independence.
 Serbia's presidency is formally a ceremonial post, but it gained in importance and influence under Mr. Milosevic's autocratic leadership in the 1990s.
 Kosovo's Albanian leaders said the province would proceed with independence regardless of the vote's outcome. ''The Serb presidential election makes no difference to Kosovo's right to independence,'' said Agim Ceku, Kosovo's former prime minister. But other officials in Kosovo said the victory of the more moderate Mr. Tadic meant they could put off independence for a few more weeks.
 Analysts said the closeness of the contest showed the extent to which the Radical Party had tapped into widespread disillusionment with the country's progress since Mr. Tadic's Democratic Party helped defeat Mr. Milosevic in 2000. 
 Today, nearly one million people remain unemployed, and salaries average about $665 a month. Deprived of the open borders of their European Union neighbors, only 12 percent of Serbs have passports. Many here say they feel isolated, alienated and closed in.
 That discontent was palpable over the weekend in Pozarevac, an industrial town east of Belgrade that is also Mr. Milosevic's hometown. The former dictator was buried there in March 2006 after his body was found in his prison cell in The Hague just weeks before his war crimes trial was expected to end.
 ''The E.U. gives us too many conditions, and we will never allow Tadic to give Kosovo away,'' said Sladan, 23, a truck driver who would give only his first name. ''Most people I know are for Nikolic. He will stop our people from being taken to The Hague.'' 
 Yet supporters of Mr. Tadic in the town said they were voting for him because it would help the country finally put Mr. Milosevic and the past behind.
 Across the street from the Milosevic villa, Darko, 44, a convenience store owner who also would not give his last name, said he was voting for Mr. Tadic, even though he said Pozarevac's standard of living was no better than when Mr. Milosevic was in power. 
 ''I met Milosevic, his grandson is my neighbor, and I believe that Milosevic did his best for the country,'' he said. ''But for Serbia there is no other choice but Tadic because the only solution for Serbia is coming closer to Europe.''
 Alexandra Jancovic, 26, a Web designer, said she supported Mr. Tadic because she wanted Serbia to look outward. ''Without Tadic as president, we would be isolated, unable to travel, and we would become stupid and cut off,'' she said. If the Radicals had triumphed, she added, ''I would leave Serbia and move to Tanzania.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Boris Tadic, left, greeted supporters during his celebration after winning a second term as the leader of Serbia. His victory is seen as an indicator that many Serbs want to look outward. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO DJOKOVIC/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) SERBIA (99%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



100 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TV REVIEW 'GRAND CENTRAL'; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Crossroads of a Million Private Lives

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
The ''American Experience'' documentary ''Grand Central'' is such an entertaining wallow for New York PBS viewers that it's disconcerting to note that it was produced, as World Series champions are these days, in Boston, by the public television station WGBH. Think of it as a peace offering.
 The film, which was written and produced by Michael Epstein and has its premiere on most PBS stations on Monday night, is at its best when it sticks to its primary concerns of commerce and technology (rather than aesthetics), beginning with Cornelius Vanderbilt's construction of the original Grand Central Depot on 23 acres in what was, in the 1870s, a squalid industrial zone in the netherlands of Manhattan. 
 That European-style station, with its huge train shed serving three rail lines, helped to consolidate Vanderbilt's monopoly on train traffic into New York, but it also quickly became an eyesore, and the tracks running north at grade level through the growing city were a public menace. 
 From there the story flows: The tracks are sunk below Park Avenue into uncomfortably hot and dangerous tunnels. That leads to a horrific underground collision in 1902 in which 15 died, many killed by steam while trying to escape. That, in turn, forced the railroads to convert from steam to electric locomotives and led, along with competition from the Pennsylvania Railroad and its impressive new station on the West Side, to the building of the current Grand Central Terminal. Among the innovations were two levels of tracks and platforms, both below ground, to handle the growing traffic; and the sale of air rights above the Park Avenue tracks to finance the construction, changing the nature of the Upper East Side.
 The narrative gains some contemporary resonance because it takes place largely during the Progressive era, when publicly slamming the predatory practices of big business was a popular sport, one that we're beginning to see the faintest stirrings of in our own suddenly perilous economic times. 
 ''Grand Central'' tells its tale of business and the city briskly via the familiar, and in this case entertaining, mix of archival photos and congenial talking heads. The film's other component, which could be called the nostalgic-poetic as opposed to the historical-dramatic, is not as felicitous. 
 Apparently feeling the need to acknowledge the Grand Central-as-modern-cathedral cliches, the filmmakers stop the narrative every so often for brief testimonies, from an immigrant, a veteran, a photographer and so forth, about the terminal's place in their lives. These stories are touching but ordinary -- words like ''incredible,'' ''amazing'' and, yes, ''cathedral'' pop up -- and do little but slow down the narrative.
 Of course just about anyone can be susceptible to Grand Central's charms. The film quotes a certain New York daily newspaper -- O.K., this one -- on the occasion of the terminal's opening in 1913: ''Without exception, it is not only the greatest station in the United States, but the greatest station of any type in the world.''
 AMERICAN EXPERIENCE
 Grand Central
 On most PBS stations Monday (check local listings).
 Produced and written by Michael Epstein; Kris Liem, editor; music by Joel Goodman; Michael Chin, cinematographer; Kathryn Lord, associate producer; visual effects by Tim D'Amico; Sharon Grimberg, series producer; Mark Samels, series executive producer; produced by WGBH, Boston. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 1919 photograph of Grand Central Terminal, subject of a documentary on PBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TELEVISION (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); TRAINS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



101 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: To Be Young Again, and in a Shrunken Suit

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
All men are little boys when it comes to toggle coats. Grown-up men, even balding men, can sometimes be found in department stores fondling the horn buttons, looking at them the way they might a red sports car or Gisele Bundchen, as the outerwear antidote to a midlife crisis.
 ''This will make me look young and hot again,'' such a man may be thinking, ''like Ethan Hawke in 'Dead Poets Society.' '' 
 Last week Tim Hamilton, a rising star in American men's wear, pulled out a green cashmere toggle coat from his fall collection, which he was photographing in a studio in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. It was an example of what Mr. Hamilton, who parlayed a job selling clothes for Ralph Lauren into a design role and then started his own label, does well, which is to create weathered-looking, expensive versions of clothes you could have found in any J. Crew catalog two decades ago. 
 His racks were filled with plaid shirts, striped turtlenecks, a leather bomber jacket, a cashmere hoodie, twill pants, bow ties, little-boy jackets and a table full of mittens so precious they can be tucked into pockets at either end of a matching scarf, so you won't forget them. 
 Judging by the collections shown in New York this weekend, there may be no stronger emotional current running through men's fashion now than that offered by Mr. Hamilton: personal nostalgia, a longing for what men wore as boys. The shrunken proportion of suits, popularized by Thom Browne and now universally represented on the runways, seems to have marked the beginning of a deeper regression into the staples of a prep school or a military academy. Are men stylish only if they are playing make-believe?
 By all appearances, men are more and more interested in fashion today, and that has encouraged a renaissance in design. The problem is that many of the new collections conformed to the kiddie aesthetic to the point of being patronizing, or infantilizing, with jackets uniformly cut to waiter's length, just below the waist, as were those at Band of Outsiders. And as were those in the otherwise electrifying collections from Robert Geller, who once worked with Alexandre Plokhov on the Cloak label, now defunct, and from Patrik Ervell.
 The first exits at Mr. Geller's show were stiffly militaristic: a general's coat with a black leather harness, followed by a monochromatic black blazer and tie worn with jeans. The last ones were copiously layered knits shown on disheveled-looking models, who were wrapped in cable-knit scarves and shawls like apocalyptic versions of Stevie Nicks. During the show, an evolution seemed to take place -- from a slim and trim geeky silhouette to a tougher, pumped-up gothic monster.
 The models who closed Mr. Ervell's show, who still looked like little boys, wore parkas and hoodies made of gold foil, as if they had just completed a marathon. The suggestion, depending on your feelings about gold, was either of glittering nomads or of an Elvis comeback. Strange, then, to describe these clothes as restrained, but the cuts were simplified to the point that minimalism outweighed ostentation.
 Steven Cox, one of the designers at Duckie Brown, said before his show that the likelihood of a recession had forced designers to rethink extravagances like beading and embroidery. ''It's as if we've put our hands around our throats,'' he said. He seemed to be apologizing. But the collection, straightforward suits worn with too-short nylon zip jackets over them, turned out mostly all right -- save for a few ideas that looked like mistakes, like elbow patches sewn on the front of the sleeves instead of the back, where the, uh, elbows are.
 At an informal Band of Outsiders presentation, the designer, Scott Sternberg, showed more shrunken suits than anything else, in gray flannel or brown velvet and worn with rep ties or bow ties with tight vests. He added some plaid pants this season, and a furry trapper's hat, which looked cute but didn't exactly represent a seismic shift in fashion. 
 Likewise, the new label Shipley & Halmos, from Sam Shipley and Jeff Halmos, two former Trovata designers, offered more options for men who have recently mastered the Windsor knot, like a sharp leather bomber jacket with extra-wide ribbed cuffs.
 What has separated Rag & Bone's brand of dark and moody denim and urban tailored jackets from, say, Kenneth Cole, was at best a fine line -- that is, until its show on Friday. The designers, David Neville and Marcus Wainwright, seem to have understood that their moment would not be a long one if they didn't stand for something besides Ms. Bundchen, in the front row, looking good in their pants. How hard is that?
 This collection, playing off military dress uniforms remade in immoderate fabrics, proved that Mr. Neville and Mr. Wainwright have the ability to make some seriously daffy ideas in men's wear look commercially sane. Several models wore rings or necklaces made of what appeared to be gold-plated barbed wire, and their formal suits, in royal blue or gray (the Civil War in cashmere?) were shown with pants that were described as jodhpurs. This was evidently a reference to a slight elongation of the fly and a stylist's trick of cinching the legs around the models' ankles with bands of fabric -- fairly safe stuff, even for the Citadel. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIM HAMILTON: A padded nylon jacket, double-breasted cardigan and satin pants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DUCKIE BROWN: A nylon jacket with inner elbow patches, over a herringbone suit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SHIPLEY & HALMOS: A leather bomber jacket worn with twill trousers. BAND OF OUTSIDERS: His-and-her tartan ensembles: with an oxford shirt, vest and skinny tie for him
trousers and blouse for her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ROBERT GELLER: A shortened wool blazer over a waffle-knit hoodie, wool shorts and skinny jeans. RAG & BONE: A cropped three-piece suit in wool tweed, shown with a corduroy work shirt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE AND INSET LEFT, HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PATRIK ERVELL: A zip-front foil windbreaker worn over a hooded jacket and pleated pants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE AND BELOW, RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (78%); FASHION SHOWS (74%); HAIR LOSS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (63%)

PERSON: GISELE BUNDCHEN (57%); RALPH LAUREN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



102 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: K.G.B.-Trained Hungarian Has NATO Role

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The new chief of the Hungarian secret services, who spent six years at the K.G.B.'s academy in Moscow during the 1980s, in January became the chairman of NATO's intelligence committee, a rotating post that is held for a year.
 Some NATO diplomats, asked about the appointment, said in recent days that his background might make NATO countries less willing to share intelligence with one another. 
 Sandor Laborc, 49, was chosen by Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany of Hungary in December to become director of the country's counterintelligence National Security Office.
 The appointment followed a dispute over the issue between the governing coalition led by the Socialists -- the former Communists -- and the main opposition party, Fidesz. Mr. Laborc was trained at the Dzerzhinsky Academy of the K.G.B. from 1983 to 1989, members of the national security committee in the Hungarian Parliament said. He failed to win support from that committee, which oversees such appointments but whose vote is not binding.
 Despite that, Mr. Gyurcsany and Gyorgy Szilvasy, the minister responsible for the intelligence services, went through with the appointment.
 ''A decision by the National Security Committee has no binding effect,'' Mr. Gyurcsany's office said in a statement issued in response to several written questions about Mr. Laborc. ''Gyorgy Szilvasy had the right to make a decision in his own capacity and advise the prime minister. He justified the recommendation by introducing General Laborc as someone with unquestioned professional credentials.''
 In January, Mr. Laborc took over the chairmanship of NATO's special committee dealing with a range of intelligence issues, NATO officials confirmed Friday. It was Hungary's turn to fill the post. The committee, whose main task is to analyze and share intelligence, includes all of the secret service chiefs of NATO countries.
 Several NATO delegations, including the United States, whose ambassador was asked to comment on Mr. Laborc's appointment, declined to do so.
 James Appathurai, a NATO spokesman, said, ''We do not comment on personnel appointments or intelligence issues.''
 Some delegations said they had not been aware of Mr. Laborc's background. It came to light when Mr. Szilvasy proposed him for the top intelligence job last autumn.
 NATO diplomats who agreed to discuss the appointment insisted on anonymity because diplomacy is involved. They said that even if they had reservations about Mr. Laborc, they were in no position to block his appointment. ''NATO makes decisions on the basis of consensus,'' said a senior diplomat from an Eastern European country. ''If we had questioned this appointment, then we would have to go further up to the top, in this case the Hungarian prime minister, to ask him about Laborc's past.''
 In its statement, Mr. Gyurcsany's office said: ''Not a single ambassador protested. Through diplomatic channels we received information that our partners are satisfied with the development of interagency cooperation.''
 A diplomat from a Western country said: ''It would have taken one phone call by the U.S. ambassador to NATO to stop this appointment. It would have been a signal to other countries which might think they can still get away with this.''
 Another NATO diplomat predicted that some countries would hold back intelligence. ''Here we have a person who was trained by the K.G.B.,'' the diplomat said. ''I cannot assume that he has changed that much in his attitudes.'' The diplomat added, ''NATO, it must be said, is a very leaky organization.''
 Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic joined the alliance in 1999, and the rest of the former Warsaw Pact countries in 2004. After that expansion, military attaches from the Bulgarian delegation did not receive clearance to have access to a certain level of intelligence material.
 ''You could bet that anything we shared with Bulgaria inside NATO went straight to Moscow,'' said another senior Western European diplomat. ''The old Communist nomenklatura and secret services is still around in Romania and Bulgaria. But I must say the case of Hungary is very, very disappointing.''
 In Hungary, Mr. Laborc's appointment has deepened the mistrust and polarization between the governing Socialists and the Fidesz opposition because of the way that the prime minister bypassed Parliament's national security committee. Until 2002 when the Socialists won the parliamentary elections, any Hungarian official who had served for more than a year in Moscow could not, for security reasons, be appointed to positions higher than a department head.
 ''At stake is the fundamental regard for the rule of law,'' said Janos Martonyi, a former Hungarian foreign minister and Fidesz supporter. After a five-hour debate by the national security committee in late November, Mr. Laborc failed to win a majority of the 11 votes. 
 Fidesz contends that Mr. Gyurcsany, a former Communist youth leader turned millionaire who has close ties to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, has been politicizing the secret services for domestic reasons.
 Peter Balazs, an economics professor at Central European University in Budapest and a supporter of the government, dismissed Fidesz's criticisms.
 ''Much has changed in Hungary since Laborc's time spent in Moscow over 20 years ago,'' he said. ''This is all about internal politics. Just because someone was in Moscow during the 1980s, I don't think that we should sack anybody after 20 years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) HUNGARY (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



103 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Helping to Keep Homelessness at Bay as Foreclosures Hit More Families

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Staff Sgt. Sandra Rolon spent more than a year in Kuwait, managing food service operations at a military base as part of the 408th Personnel Service Battalion in the U.S. Army Reserve. She thought of her time there in 2004 as a way both to serve her country and to pursue a more personal goal: buying a home.
 By the summer of 2007, Ms. Rolon had put a down payment of about $3,000 on a two-story tan-brick house with a patio on a narrow street in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx. It was a home she knew she could not afford. The house was $468,000, and the monthly costs on her subprime mortgage were $4,000. She earns about $2,800 a month. The broker, she said, told her she could simply refinance the mortgage later.
 Ms. Rolon, 49, an administrative worker at an Army Reserve center on Long Island, was able to make the payments for just two months. She decided to redo the basement so she could rent out the rooms for extra income. But the men she paid $8,000 to do the work disappeared, leaving her a gutted basement with wires dangling from the ceiling and piles of wood on the floor. 
 Now, with the threat of foreclosure hanging over her, she is in limbo, fighting to keep her home as she looks after her 2-year-old grandson, unable to refinance and, for the past four months, unable to make her mortgage payments.
 She said she sometimes felt like going back overseas. ''Life was easier,'' Ms. Rolon said, wiping away tears. ''You had your camaraderie. You don't have that here. It's a dog-eat-dog world here.''
 A new program created by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund is responding to the toll taken on people like Ms. Rolon during the surge in subprime lending and foreclosures. 
 The program will help dozens of families at risk of losing their homes to foreclosure from becoming homeless by awarding grants to pay for moving costs, the first month's rent and the security deposit at their new apartments and other emergency expenses. Each eligible family can receive up to $10,000 as part of the Subprime Neediest Program.
 The grants, available to homeowners as well as tenants whose landlords face foreclosure, will be awarded to families from around the metropolitan region in the next several months. The program is being funded by $1 million from the endowment of the Neediest Cases Fund.
 Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the Neediest Cases Fund, said the initial goal was to help about 100 families. He said the foundation was seeking contributions from the public and private sectors to assist even more families and individuals. ''There are so many categories of victims here,'' Mr. Rosenthal said.
 The recipients will be selected by the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven agencies that participate in the annual Neediest Cases Fund campaign. They will first be identified for the program by the seven agencies or other housing and legal services groups. 
 Housing advocates, as well as city and state elected officials, describe the situation as nothing less than a crisis, with a growing number of New York homeowners who losing or in danger of losing their homes to foreclosure. 
 A report released in October by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, found that out of more than 364,000 outstanding subprime loans held by state homeowners, more than 20 percent would end up in foreclosure by the end of 2009.
 In some neighborhoods of the city, the numbers of foreclosure filings have more than doubled in recent years, according to housing data analyzed by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. 
 As of October, in the Jamaica and Hollis sections of Queens, there were 609 foreclosure filings for two- to four-family properties in 2007, up from 223 in all of 2004. In Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, the filings in 2007 increased to 616 as of October, from 327 in all of 2004. 
 ''We are absolutely seeing a foreclosure crisis, and a community crisis and an economic crisis,'' said Sarah Gerecke, chief executive officer of Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City, a nonprofit group that provides foreclosure counseling and other services.
 Subprime lending has grown rapidly around the region in recent years, particularly in minority neighborhoods. Subprime mortgages, made to people with poor credit ratings or low incomes, have allowed many families to buy their first homes, but have also left many others in financial ruin, after they were lured into borrowing more than they could afford or struggled with the payments on complex mortgages they did not understand.
 The situation has upended the very definition of the needy, as working-class families in tree-lined, middle-class neighborhoods go from being homeowners to homeless in a matter of months. The transition comes not only as a psychological and emotional shock, but a financial one, too. Ms. Gerecke said families at risk of foreclosure often exhausted their savings to pay their monthly mortgage costs and maxed out their credit cards to pay for everything else.
 ''I have met families who have left their homes and attempted to go to a homeless shelter because there was nowhere else to go,'' she said.
 Ms. Rolon has accumulated nearly $14,000 in credit card debt. An upstairs tenant pays $500 rent, and Ms. Rolon was hoping to rent out two rooms in the basement for $800 each before the workers disappeared. Her expenses, including her mortgage, are about $5,800 a month.
 ''It's a classic case of greed,'' said State Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Democrat who represents parts of the Bronx and Westchester County and whose office has been assisting Ms. Rolon. ''Here is someone who served her country with distinction, came back, wanted to take part in the American dream of owning a home, and she was subject to a very unscrupulous mortgage broker.''
 Stephanie De Felice, 61, moved into an apartment in a two-story house in Poughkeepsie in 2006. Her rent was about $1,000 a month, and though she had reservations about the safety of the neighborhood, her first-floor apartment was spacious and had a pretty stained-glass window.
 A few months ago, a man came to her door and handed her court documents that said a foreclosure proceeding had been filed on the house. She had no idea her landlord was in financial trouble.
 ''It's horrible,'' said Ms. De Felice, who has since moved into an apartment nearby after receiving help from Catholic Charities in Poughkeepsie. ''It's horrible. Me being alone. When you don't have family, it's even worse.''
 One recent afternoon, she returned to her old apartment on Fox Terrace to collect some of the artwork she had painted over the years. She moved around the apartment slowly; after undergoing several operations on her spine, Ms. De Felice cannot stand or walk for very long. 
 She works part time at a home in the Bronx for autistic people, making about $700 a month. With the pension from the telephone company where she worked for 21 years set to soon decrease, she worries about making ends meet. She already is behind on her utility bills to Central Hudson Gas and Electric.
 Ms. De Felice is seeing a therapist to treat depression.
 ''It's hard to be back here,'' she said, sliding her paintings into duffel bags. When she walked back outside, she passed a large ''For Sale'' sign in the grass.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephanie De Felice, an artist with a debilitating spine injury, lost her apartment in Poughkeepsie with little notice when the homeowner faced foreclosure proceedings. She needed financial assistance to help pay for utilities and other bills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 When Sandra Rolon returned from duty with the Army Reserve in Kuwait, she took out a $4,000-a-month mortgage on this home in the Bronx, which is now threatened with foreclosure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); ARMIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (88%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (88%); HOMELESSNESS (87%); ENDOWMENTS (85%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (58%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (81%); ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUWAIT (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



104 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Soaring Endowments Widen a Higher Education Gap

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Allan T. Demaree, a retired executive editor of Fortune magazine, gladly makes donations to Princeton University, his alma mater, even though he knows it has become one of the wealthiest educational institutions in the world. His son, who also went to Princeton, points to its endowment of $15.8 billion, and will not give it a penny. 
 ''Why give money to an institution that can seemingly live off its interest when other very deserving entities need money to function tomorrow?'' asked the son, Heath Demaree, a professor at Case Western Reserve University who instead donates to Virginia Tech, where he was a graduate student. 
 His question captures how the wealth amassed by elite universities like Princeton through soaring endowments over the past decade has exacerbated the divide between a small group of spectacularly wealthy universities and all others. If Harvard has $34.9 billion or Yale $22.5 billion, fewer than 400 of the roughly 4,500 colleges and universities in the United States had even $100 million in endowments in the fiscal year that ended in June. Most had less than $10 million. 
 The result is that America's already stratified system of higher education is becoming ever more so, and the chasm is creating all sorts of tensions as the less wealthy colleges try to compete. Even state universities are going into fund-raising overdrive and trying to increase endowments to catch up.
 The wealthiest colleges can tap their endowments to give substantial financial aid to families earning $180,000 or more. They can lure star professors with high salaries and hard-to-get apartments. They are starting sophisticated new research laboratories, expanding their campuses and putting up architecturally notable buildings. 
 Other campuses are fighting to retain faculty, and some, with less cachet, are charging tuition that rival Harvard's and scrambling to explain why their financial aid cannot match the most prosperous of the Ivy League. 
 ''It's a huge difference,'' said Sandy Baum, an economist at Skidmore College. ''You don't have to go very far down the food chain before you get to institutions that feel real constraints about how they spend money. Princeton can do what they want to do, but not many schools can.''
 Skidmore, in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., is not exactly poor; its endowment reached $287 million last year. But the growth alone in Harvard's endowment last year was $5.7 billion -- a sum bigger than all but 14 other universities' total endowments. 
 Higher education has always been stratified, but the disparities were never as large as today. In the early 1990s, endowment income represented a small part of revenues at most colleges and universities. In 1990 Harvard's endowment was $4.4 billion.
 The last decade brought a sea change, as sophisticated money managers hired by the universities moved their portfolios into hedge funds, private equities and other high-performing investments, and endowments skyrocketed. 
 Yale's recent decision to raise the amount of money it draws from its endowment by more than $300 million, for example, will give it $1.2 billion in revenue from the endowment alone -- roughly 45 percent of its yearly budget. Princeton is also at this level.
 Until recently, top public research universities could count on enough public subsidy to hold their own, when the taxpayer money was combined with tuition and fund-raising.
 ''Having state support was akin to having an endowment,'' said Donald E. Frey, an economics professor at Wake Forest University in North Carolina. 
 But that world is changing. 
 The University of California, Berkeley, a prestigious public institution, has a $3 billion endowment, but it is stretched across 34,000 students. And with state budget cuts looming, Robert J. Birgeneau, its chancellor, says he fears he will no longer be able to attract the best professors and students.
 ''It will cost less for a student from a family with an income of $180,000 to go to Harvard than for a student with a family income of $90,000 to go to Berkeley,'' he said, taking into account Harvard's recent decision to give more financial aid to families earning up to $180,000 annually. 
 ''I'm not criticizing Harvard,'' Dr. Birgeneau added. ''They have done a great thing. I wish we were in a position to do it.''
 His answer is to build a larger endowment. Last year, Berkeley used a $113 million gift from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation to create an endowed fund to subsidize professors' salaries and to help recruit top graduate students. (The average salary for full professors at Berkeley in 2006-2007 was $131,300, compared with $177,400 at Harvard, according to the American Association of University Professors.)Now Dr. Birgeneau wants to up the ante, with an $800 million fund for student financial aid, to help Berkeley remain affordable to low- and middle-income students. He says half could be raised from donors, and the rest could come from the state.
 Others, too, are seizing on the idea of endowments for public universities. Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York recently proposed creating a $4 billion endowment for public universities, to be paid for by selling part of the state's lottery business.
 Virginia Tech, a state institution with a $525 million endowment, is allocating nearly one-third of the money received in its current $1 billion fund-raising campaign to its endowment. 
 Even as colleges race to raise their endowments, high tuitions have caused a backlash among parents, graduates and members of Congress, criticizing them for sitting on wealth. Typically, colleges spend less than 5 percent a year from their endowments. 
 ''These institutions continue to build up their kitties,'' said Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''They say it is the schools' money. But it is not all the schools' money. Some of it is. But when a donor gives them money, he is able to give more because he is not paying taxes. So some of what they have is federal money, every student's money, every family's money.''
 ''It may be time to change tax policy,'' Mr. Tierney added.
 The Senate Finance Committee, which oversees tax policy, recently asked the nation's 136 richest colleges and universities to provide a long list of financial data for the past 10 years, to show how they have set tuition and used their endowments. 
 Some educators, too, say universities may be too timid in their spending. 
 Lawrence H. Summers, the former president of Harvard, recalls that when he returned to the university as president in 2001 after being away for a decade, part of that as secretary of the Treasury, he was struck by the $14 billion growth in the endowment, and thought some of the money should be used ''for priorities of transcendent importance.''
 He allocated money for a new Allston campus, expanded financial aid for low- and middle-income students, and created a new school of engineering and applied sciences. Harvard's endowment spending rate in several of those years was 4.8 to 5.2 percent, higher than many of its peers. 
 Dr. Summers said that when investment returns were particularly high he believed spending at wealthier universities should go higher, too. ''There is a temptation to go for what is comfortable,'' he said, ''but this would be a mistake. The universities have matchless resources that demand that they seize the moment.''
 Princeton too has begun to spend more of its endowment returns for expansion, financial aid and research. Shirley M. Tilghman, Princeton's president, said the trustees decided to expand the student body in 2001, after the endowment had undergone a few years of ''extraordinary growth,'' because they felt ''that a university that had as many resources as we did should educate as many students as it could without losing its character.'' 
 But Dr. Tilghman said universities had to keep the balance right. ''We are all forgetting that we have been through a 30-year period of a sort never been seen in this country, in terms of the creation of wealth and in terms of prosperity,'' she said. ''If we were to begin to spend more in the belief that there will be another 30 years like the last 30 years, that would be irresponsible.''
 Donors like Allan Demaree agree: ''We want make sure the people who come after us have the same advantages we did.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: While he was president of Harvard, Lawrence H. Summers used endowment returns for expansion, financial aid and research. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURENT GILLIERON) GRAPH: ENDOWED ASSETS: Endowment funds are concentrated in a small number of public and private colleges and universities, with the wealthiest 10 percent holding most of the assets. On average, however, the top 10 percent of private institutions have more than 10 times the assets of the wealthiest public institutions. (Source: College Board) Graph showing the endowed assets of the top ten percent of private institutions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



105 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: A Tiny Staff, Tracking People Across the Globe

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It has an editorial staff of one and annual advertising revenues of less than $2,000. It charges its subscribers nothing and pays most contributors the same. Mapping the settlement of Latino poultry workers is its idea of a sexy piece.
 But for a growing number of followers, it has become an important read. 
 Every moment has its magazine, and for the age of migration it is the Migration Information Source, a weekly (more or less) online journal followed worldwide by scholars, policy makers and the occasional migrant in distress. ''My soul's dying every moment,'' an Iranian asylum seeker wrote last year in an e-mail message from Greece. ''Give me an answer.''
 Many readers discover the Source simply by googling the word ''immigrant'' and finding a link to migrationinformation.org among the millions of citations. 
 At the site's helm is an American-born editor, Kirin Kalia, 32, who describes herself as ''half Dutch, half Indian, 100 percent American and total migration geek.'' Ms. Kalia thrives on hybridity -- devouring Indian-American novels and Dutch-Moroccan films -- and finds no migration topic too obscure. To know the fate of Latvian mushroom pickers in Ireland is, for her, to glimpse the world in a grain of sand.
 ''To move to a different country for whatever reason takes so much courage,'' she said, interrupting an interview to play a song by a British-Indian rapper, Panjabi MC, stored on her hard drive. ''The fact that so many people do it is just endlessly fascinating to me.''
 With conflicts rising over immigration to the United States, interest in the Source has surged. Readership has doubled in the past three years, Ms. Kalia said, to about 140,000 unique visits each month. To stroll through the archives is to see the American debate freshly, as part of a global phenomenon.
 If the Source has a unifying theme, it is that migration is a defining force nearly everywhere. There are about 200 million migrants in the world -- probably a record, demographers say, in both relative and absolute terms -- and more than 80 percent live outside the United States. 
 The Source has focused on Tajik construction workers in Russia, farmhands from Burkina Faso who pick Ghanaian crops and the Peruvians who take jobs left behind by Ecuadorean workers who have migrated to Spain.
 Other themes of the coverage include the speed with which migration has grown (Spain's immigrant population has risen nearly sixfold in 10 years) and the conflict it brings, within both nations and living rooms. Political parties rise and fall. Economic interests win and lose. Family relations change. 
 ''None of this is easy,'' Ms. Kalia said. 
 Nor is the process of tracking it, with migration studies a nascent field and data on many countries scarce. But the magazine has won praise from a roster of A-list scholars who read it, write for it and assign it to their students.
 ''It's the best online source of information on migration that I have seen worldwide,'' said Ruben G. Rumbaut, a sociologist at the University of California at Irvine and a leading authority on the children of immigrants to the United States. 
 The magazine is published by a Washington research group, the Migration Policy Institute, that was started six years ago (with assistance from the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the Ford Foundation and the J. M. Kaplan Fund) to help fill the knowledge gap.
 Does migration drive down domestic wages? Do guest worker programs always bring permanent settlement? Does ''brain drain'' hurt developing countries, or have critics overlooked indirect benefits, like the money the migrants send home?
 ''Heck! I don't believe we have a consensus on a single thing in migration,'' said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, the Migration Policy Institute's president. ''You have to build a knowledge base if you're going to make progress.'' 
 With a staff of 20, the institute reflects the mobility it studies. In addition to Mr. Papademetriou, a Greek immigrant, it includes a Moldovan demographer (Jeanne Batalova), a British analyst (Will Somerville), a Filipino-American with dual citizenship in Iceland (Dovelyn R. Agunias), and a refugee expert (Kathleen Newland, a co-director) who is American-born and married to a British journalist.
 Some critics see a loose-borders tilt to the work. ''They do some useful research,'' said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that seeks lower immigration to the United States. ''But their orientation is towards higher immigration and looser borders worldwide.''
 But admirers said the work merely reflected the reality that migration is ubiquitous. ''This is not something just going on inside the United States,'' Mr. Rumbaut said.
 One recent article charts the emergence of Tajikistan as a leading exporter of labor, with one in five Tajik adults leaving to work abroad each year. Another shows that at least 60 million migrants have left one poor country to live in another. 
 Yet another compares the incentives that draw Mexicans to the United States with those that lure Africans onto rickety boats bounds for Spain. American wages are about four times those in Mexico, a Norwegian scholar, Jorgen Carling, noted, while the wage differential between Spain and Senegal is ''a staggering 15 to one.''
 Even nonmigrants can be deeply affected by migration, at both ends of the stream. Studying a village in the Dominican Republic, Peggy Levitt of Wellesley College found that women prefer to marry men who have worked abroad ''because they want husbands who will share in the housework and take care of the children the way men who have been to the United States do.'' 
 Conflict is also a running theme, across cultures and time. The Dutch are so worried about assimilation they require migrants to pass a language test before they come. Aristede R. Zolberg of the New School, notes that Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin ''considered the German language to be the bearer of a culture incompatible with republican democracy.'' 
 Professor Zolberg resists the term ''age of migration'' (coined by the scholars Stephen Castles and Mark J. Miller) because people have been migrating since the beginning of time. Still, he sees migration growth as likely to continue, in an era of cheap travel and easy communication via cellphones and Web cams. And as incomes rise in the developing world, more people have the means to move. 
 ''What's new is it's much easier now,'' he said.
 Financially, the Source may be a victim of its own success. Its initial supporters largely consider the site a core mission of the institute, to be financed from the broader institute's $3.5 million budget. That leaves Ms. Kalia rattling the online cup for reader donations. 
 As for the difficulties that migration can bring, Ms. Kalia encountered them early when her uncle, who is Dutch and a Catholic priest, flew to California to baptize her baby brother. Her Hindu grandmother lived with the family, and locked herself in her bedroom, beside a Lord Krishna poster, until the uncle promised to desist.
 Ms. Kalia has yet to write about the episode, but she does see a lesson. ''It shows you just how difficult negotiating cultural differences can be,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kirin Kalia, editor of the Migration Information Source and ''total migration geek.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN ETHERIDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 One person in a global phenomenon, an immigrant from Africa who arrived late last month in the Canary Islands, part of Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTURO RODRIGUEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (70%); RAP MUSIC (64%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (91%); BURKINA FASO (79%); GHANA (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



106 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Military Spending Is Highest Since WWII

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Congress and the public focus on more than $600 billion already approved in supplemental budgets to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and for counterterrorism operations, the Bush administration has with little notice approached a landmark in military spending.
 The Pentagon on Monday will unveil its proposed 2009 budget of $515.4 billion. If it is approved in full, annual military spending, when adjusted for inflation, will have reached its highest level since World War II. 
 That new Defense Department budget proposal, which is to pay for the standard operations of the Pentagon and the military but does not include supplemental spending on the war efforts or on nuclear weapons, is an increase in real terms of about 5 percent over this year. 
 Overall since coming to office, the administration has increased baseline military spending by 30 percent, a figure sure to be noted in coming budget battles as the American economy seems headed downward and government social spending is strained, especially by health-care costs.
 Still, the nation's economy has grown faster than the level of military spending, and even the current colossal Pentagon budgets for regular operations and the war efforts consume a smaller portion of gross domestic product than in previous conflicts.
 About 14 percent of the national economy was spent on the military during the Korean War, and about 9 percent during the war in Vietnam. By comparison, when the current base Pentagon budget, nuclear weapons and supplemental war costs are combined, they total just over 4 percent of the current economy, according to budget experts. The base Pentagon spending alone is about 3.4 percent of gross domestic product.
 ''The Bush administration's 2009 defense request follows the continuously ascending path of military outlays the president embraced at the beginning of his tenure,'' said Loren Thompson, a budget and procurement expert at the Lexington Institute, a policy research center. ''However, the 2009 request may be the peak for defense spending.''
 Pentagon and military officials acknowledge the considerable commitment of money that will be required for continuing the missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as efforts to increase the size of the Army, Marine Corps and Special Operations forces, to replace weapons worn out in the desert and to assure ''quality of life'' for those in uniform so they will remain in the military.
 Yet those demands for money do not even include the price of refocusing the military's attention beyond the current wars to prepare for other challenges.
 Senior Pentagon civilians and the top generals and admirals do not deny the challenge of sustaining military spending, and they acknowledge that Congress and the American people may turn inward after Iraq.
 ''I believe that we need to have a broad public discussion about what we should spend on defense,'' Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Friday.
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Admiral Mullen have said military spending should not drop below 4 percent of the national economy. ''I really do believe this 4 percent floor is important,'' Admiral Mullen said. ''It's really important, given the world we're living in, given the threats that we see out there, the risks that are, in fact, global, not just in the Middle East.'' 
 Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, said Mr. Gates and the senior Pentagon leadership were well aware that the large emergency spending bills for the war, over and above the Pentagon base budget, would at some point come to an end.
 ''The secretary believes that whenever we transition away from war supplementals, the Congress should dedicate 4 percent of our G.D.P. to funding national security,'' Mr. Morrell said. ''That is what he believes to be a reasonable price to stay free and protect our interests around the world.''
 No weapons programs are canceled in the new Pentagon budget, officials said; in fact, steadily increasing base defense budgets and the large war-fighting supplemental spending packages have made it easier for the Pentagon to avoid some tough calls on where to trim.
 ''But I think it's doubtful the nation will sustain this level of defense spending,'' said Steven Kosiak, vice president for budget studies at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.
 The 2009 military spending proposal will be the 11th year of continuous increases in the base military budget, he added. 
 War-fighting supplement spending measures are outside the base Pentagon budget, an issue that has angered some in Congress. Pentagon officials have proposed a $70 billion special war budget just to carry on operations from Oct. 1, the start of the fiscal year, into the early months of the next presidency.
 Another supplemental spending proposal is expected before October, but after Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior commander in Iraq, reports to Congress on his recommendations for troop levels through the end of 2008.
 Any budget proposal is more than just a list of personnel costs and weapons to be purchased, as it lays out the building blocks of military strategy. Democrats vow to scrutinize the budget, the last by this president.
 Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who visited Iraq again last month, said that expanding the ground force as proposed in the new budget was an important step to relieve pressure on the Army and Marine Corps -- one he would support even though he said it came too late.
 Mr. Reed, a Democrat and a senior member of the Armed Services Committee, said demands of the counterinsurgency wars in Iraq and Afghanistan raised questions on whether troops were receiving sufficient training, and were instead surrendering skills across a broader range of combat missions.
 ''It's going to require a rebalancing,'' he said. ''It's going to require budget decisions that'll be very difficult.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers on patrol south of Baghdad. Supplemental military budgets are paying for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEHAD NGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); DEFENSE SPENDING (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); KOREAN WAR (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); TERRORISM (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); VIET NAM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



107 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Internet-Era Magazine Is Revived to Look at the Future

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
One of the signature publications of the first dot-com boom is being reincarnated.
 On Monday, International Data Group, the trade magazine publisher based in Framingham, Mass., will restart The Industry Standard as an online-only technology news site with a twist: readers will be asked to wager virtual money on whether various anticipated news developments and business deals in high-tech are likely to happen. 
 So-called prediction markets are seen as a way to use the wisdom of crowds to forecast future events, such as who will win the presidential election or the Super Bowl. On sites like the Hollywood Stock Exchange (www.hsx.com), NewsFutures (www.newsfutures.com) and TradeSports (www.tradesports.com), people can bet on the outcomes of films, news and sporting events. The new Industry Standard will extend that model to news about the Internet at www.thestandard.com. 
 The Industry Standard is a familiar brand to most people in high-tech. Ten years ago, I.D.G. began it as a weekly magazine based in San Francisco. 
 It became known as much for embodying the initial wave of dot-com hyperbole as for reporting on it: the magazine grew thick with ads from Internet companies and held industry conferences and rooftop networking parties before ad pages and subscriptions withered in the Internet bust. 
 Its parent company, Standard Media International, sought bankruptcy protection from creditors in August 2001. I.D.G., a major investor in the company, acquired many of its remaining assets, including the Web site and brand name.
 Then for six years, I.D.G. did nothing with it.
 ''It was pretty dormant for the most part,'' said Derek Butcher, vice president and general manager of the new Industry Standard. ''But recently, we started thinking that there seemed to be a lot of equity left in the brand. People seemed to have a lot of love and respect for it,'' he said.
 The site, which goes live on Monday, will feature short contributions on a variety of high-tech topics from freelance writers, who will be paid around $300 a post.
 But the centerpiece of the new site is the predictive market. When people register for the site, they will receive 100,000 ''Standard Dollars,'' which they can use to wager on such propositions as ''another company will emerge as a suitor for Yahoo'' or ''TiVo will be bought by the end of the year.''
 The listings, which can be suggested by readers but must be approved by The Standard's editors, will each have associated odds. If the chances are 50 percent that ''Google and Dell will team up to make a mobile phone'' and it actually happens, a reader would double his money.
 Standard Dollars can be exchanged for prizes but will probably be used on the site as a symbol of a person's reputation for success, Mr. Butcher said.
 Prediction markets have been evangelized in the writings of Thomas W. Malone, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is advising I.D.G. 
 Professor Malone says prediction markets can tap into the hidden wisdom of crowds, drawing out expertise and insider knowledge. 
 Google and Microsoft use prediction markets to bet not only on industry events but also on whether a certain product might be shipped on time, Professor Malone said. The results of the betting, he said, often reveal internal problems that managers may not know about.
 ''Prediction markets provide a way of integrating information from many different people very quickly and effectively,'' Professor Malone said. ''That is one reason to believe the kind of thing The Industry Standard is doing is a harbinger of something that is going to be much more common in the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Derek Butcher, vice president and general manager of the new Industry Standard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOR SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); WRITERS (78%); WEB SITES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); BRAND EQUITY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



108 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills Tuesday. 
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 2.08 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 2.13 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 1.81 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 Cambridge, Mass., $69.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Glendale, Calif., Electric, $60 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Glendale, Calif., Water, $50 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Plano, Tex., Independent School District, $57.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 THURSDAY
 Johnson County, Kan., Union Free School District No. 233, $50 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 California Statewide Community Development Authority, $59.5 million of debt securities for Los Angeles Jewish Home for the Aging. Cain Brothers.
 City and County of Denver, $185 million of debt securities. Piper Jaffray.
 City of Gainesville, Fla., $105 million of utility system revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Harris County, Tex., $140.1 million of flood control district contract tax refunding bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Maryland Health and Higher Education Facilities, Washington County, $261.2 million of health systems series 2008 bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 New York State Thruway Authority, Local Authority, $205.1 million of local highway and bridge service contract bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Plymouth-Canton, Mich., Community Schools, 2008 school building and site refunding bonds. Wachovia Bank, National Association.
 State of California, $3.2 billion of economic recovery bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 Trustees of Indiana University, $85.6 million of Indiana University student fee bonds. JPMorgan Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); STUDENT EXPENSES (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); FLOOD CONTROL (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (66%); MS (NYSE) (58%); PJC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



109 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Strike May End Soon, but Writers May Confront a Hostile Hollywood

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
As movie and television writers deliberate whether to end a strike that is about to enter its fourth month, they will also have to grapple with a sober realization: the work world to which they return may be even less friendly than the one they left behind.
 Over the weekend, Hollywood was swept by hope that the walkout by writers may soon end. The strike has brought most television production to a halt, forced the postponement of studio blockbusters and thrown tens of thousands of people out of work. Major stumbling blocks to a deal between producers and the striking writers, including nettlesome differences over compensation for digital media, were eliminated in informal talks. 
 Over the next week, leaders of the Writers Guild of America West and Writers Guild of America East will brief their governing groups, even as they begin drafting provisions that could become the backbone of a tentative deal with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers.
 In an e-mailed bulletin on Sunday, the presidents of the two guilds told members they ''do not yet have a contract,'' and stressed the need for continued picketing.
 But even as the sides were moving toward conciliation, many of those best-versed in the writers' business were fretting that a more complicated, and perhaps less lucrative, future lies ahead. In interviews last week, lawyers and others -- some of whom were granted anonymity to avoid derailing talks -- cautioned that a post-strike world appeared likely to bring more imports from foreign television, diminished spending on expensive pilot episodes and even more reality programming. 
 And it could also mean that studios and networks, which had tightened budgets before the strike, will now take an even tougher stance in individual negotiations, and dole out fewer rich development deals than in the past. 
 ''I'm worried that studios are basically preparing to extend that kind of regime,'' said Linda Lichter, an entertainment lawyer whose clients have included prominent filmmakers like Guillermo Arriaga (''Babel'') and Marc Forster (''The Kite Runner''), speaking of what she saw as increasingly tight-fisted practices that preceded the strike. Ms. Lichter said she was concerned that companies, squeezed by a three-month disruption, would now ''try to cut prices, try to use the economic climate to make people take what they're offered.''
 Some in Hollywood argue that the five-month writers' strike in 1988 was followed by something of a dark age. The movie market was flooded with ''spec scripts,'' screenplays written without payment by aspiring writers in the hope that a studio would scoop it up at a premium. That system meant million-dollar paydays for lucky writers who made sales.
 But it also shifted development risk away from the studios. Scores of screenplays, often by established writers who weren't paid, languished on the shelf. The 1988 strike also brought with it a new severity in the kind of contractual terms that occupy industry lawyers. With surprising uniformity, studio lawyers put in place changes that angered writers: insisting on longer option periods for material, asserting the right to postpone contractual writing steps for a time, or extending a writer's legal liability should a screenplay be thought to invade someone's privacy.
 ''Only somewhat facetiously, I've said it's taken us 20 years to climb back'' from setbacks that followed the 1988 walkout, said David Colden, a lawyer whose clients have included Michael Chabon (''The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay'') and Cormac Wibberley (''National Treasure: Book of Secrets''). 
 This time, however, many changes are already on the table. Writers and their representatives, for instance, are warily eyeing company proclamations that for many could mean an end to the kind of arrangements that could pay a writer $8 million or more to develop television shows for a couple of years at network expense. 
 Many such deals with producer-writers (like Barbara Hall of ''Joan of Arcadia'' and Jon Robin Baitz of ''Brothers & Sisters'' on ABC) were ended weeks ago, as the companies invoked ''force majeure'' clauses as a result of the strike. Guild leaders have contended that they may take legal action on such deals. 
 Even if that happens, however, television producers are obviously flirting with ways to acquire or develop shows without all the overhead. In the last week, NBC bought 13 episodes of ''The Listener,'' a Canadian show about a psychic paramedic, while producers of ''The Border,'' about Canadian border agents, were negotiating with CBS and ABC, and ABC Family was reported to be in talks for ''Sophie,'' about a young talent agent.
 In Las Vegas last Tuesday, Mr. Zucker told attendees at an industry convention that he planned to streamline his network's development of new series, slashing the number of pilots to five or six from three times that many. Mr. Zucker's wasted dollars, of course, have historically been a bonanza for not just writers, but the directors, actors and craftsmen who work on those unseen pilot episodes.
 Michael Gendler, an lawyer whose clients have included David Chase (''The Sopranos'') and Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci (''Transformers''), said the strongest writers may actually find an upside in such changes. They will be able to use the flexibility of digital media to create ventures of their own, rather than relying on the companies.
 Marshall Herskovitz and Ed Zwick did exactly that when they recently started a Web series, ''Quarterlife,'' then cut a deal to distribute it on NBC, making themselves employers rather than employees.
 ''That may make the studios less relevant,'' noted Mr. Gendler, who said he was working on just such a deal now, though he declined to discuss details. ''But it may make the guilds less relevant, too.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); STRIKES (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BUDGETS (69%); LAWYERS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA WEST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



110 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Another Difficulty for a Microsoft-Yahoo Marriage: Recruiting

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN and KATIE HAFNER. 
Gary Rivlin reported from New York and Katie Hafner reported from San Francisco

 BODY:
The crowds of engineering students stood as many as six deep at the recruitment table Google set up at a job fair at Stanford last fall. Facebook's representatives faced a similarly thick crowd clamoring for a few minutes of their time. 
 At the Microsoft and Yahoo tables, by contrast, students looked, but generally did not linger. 
 The competition for engineering talent in Silicon Valley and other redoubts of technology is as fierce as its been since the late 1990s, if not fiercer, some in the Valley say.
 The battle for tech supremacy, then, is largely a battle for talent. And so one crucial question about Microsoft's $44.6 billion bid for Yahoo is whether a combined company could more easily attract software engineers -- an increasingly precious commodity. Both companies are already fighting the perception that their most innovative days are behind them. 
 ''Engineers here want to work on tomorrow's technology, not yesterday's,'' said Bill Demas, who worked at Microsoft through much of the 1990s and then at Yahoo until leaving last year. He is now chief executive at Moka5, a start-up of around 30 people based in Silicon Valley's Redwood City. 
 ''If it's perceived that Yahoo or anyone else is not focused on the future, it's going to be very difficult to recruit top people,'' Mr. Demas said. 
 Size is also an issue. For many young engineers, the future is in tiny start-ups, which offer a cozier work environment and greater ownership over a project, as well as the potential for a big payoff if the company is bought or sells shares to the public.
 Ben Newman, 23, who expects to graduate from Stanford in June with a master's degree in computer science, is among those young pedigreed engineers who prefer the intimacy and excitement of a smaller company over the security of a large, established one. 
 A merged Microsoft-Yahoo ''definitely decreases my interest in either company,'' said Mr. Newman, who interviewed with Facebook, the start-up of the moment, but took a job with Mozilla, creator of the Firefox browser.
 Bill Beer, a recruiter with Daversa Partners in San Francisco, said the job market was ''more competitive in the Valley right now than I've ever seen it.'' That is because of the battle for talent among behemoths like Google and Microsoft, but also because of what Mr. Beer describes as the appeal of working for ''the almost endless supply of companies that are five guys in a garage with a really promising-sounding idea.''
 Money, of course, is a factor in almost any engineer's job-choosing calculus. Many of those students descending on recruiters from Google and Facebook were no doubt motivated by the idea of becoming rich in exchange for just a few years of hard work. 
 Yet in Silicon Valley there is also the cool factor, and the prospect of potentially working on the hot new thing. 
 Josh Becker, a venture capitalist with New Cycle Capital in San Francisco, said Microsoft's profile in the Valley would be significantly raised ''if they took over an iconic company like Yahoo.'' But, he added, ''whether that would translate into a sense that Microsoft is a cool place to work remains to be seen.'' 
 Microsoft, which declined to comment for this article, has cast its bid for Yahoo as a classic case of the No. 2 and No. 3 in a market teaming up to challenge the leader. If the deal is consummated, a combined Microsoft-Yahoo would no doubt pour resources into the fight, and it might start closing the gap with Google in the race for online ad dollars. That would help its stock price and its recruitment effort. 
 ''If Microsoft manages to keep talent and gains some traction, then it could help attract talent to its business,'' said Michael Morell, an executive recruiter with Riviera Partners in Palo Alto, Calif. Attracting brain power to its cause is critical if it is to keep pace with Google, which has hired thousands of Ph.D.s and other software jockeys in the last few years to devise clever algorithms and add features aimed at pleasing users and advertisers alike. 
 On the other hand, Mr. Morell said, Microsoft might be vying to pay a large premium for a company already past its prime. ''People look at Yahoo and think it might have already seen its best days,'' Mr. Morell said. 
 One risk for Microsoft is that it could spend billions to buy Yahoo only to find that many of its most talented people have already left. That is one of the perils of high-priced acquisitions in the talent economy, where the real prize is often the collective abilities of a company's employees. 
 Silicon Valley, after all, is a place where large companies have been known to pay vast sums for smaller ones largely to buy the commitment of a few gifted engineers. But like others interviewed for this article, Mr. Becker of New Cycle Capital said he was already hearing about Yahoo employees, loath to work for an even larger corporation whose bosses are around 850 miles away in Redmond, Wash., reaching out to friends working at other companies. 
 On the other hand, one Yahoo employee, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Microsoft news had the opposite effect on him and other members of his team, which has been working on Yahoo's core search technology. 
 ''I heard the news Friday and thought, 'I'm staying,' '' he said. ''We really want to beat Google. And if Microsoft is equally determined to beat Google, then sign me up.'' He described the exodus of people from Yahoo over the past couple of years as a ''bloodbath,'' but also said the search group, a relatively small group of a few hundred employees, has remained largely intact. 
 Even Google, with 17,000 employees, has lost some of its luster as a top spot for engineers as the potential for big gains in its share price has begun to diminish. The company still receives more than 20,000 resumes a week, or two every minute, according to Sunny Gettinger, a Google spokeswoman. But it is also starting to lose engineers to start-ups and budding Valley stars like Facebook, including engineers like Pedram Keyani. 
 Mr. Keyani, 30, started work at Google in June 2005, then left last summer for Facebook, which then had around 300 employees. He said at least a dozen engineers have left Google for Facebook over the past year. 
 ''When I joined Google, there were around 3,000 employees, and in two years that number basically bubbled up to 16,000 employees,'' Mr. Keyani said. ''When you go from a company of 16,000 to a company of 300 people, you effectively have 50 times more impact on the direction of the product and on the company.'' 
 Yet since Mr. Keyani's arrival just six months ago, the Facebook staff has swelled by 50 percent, to 450. It seems a matter of time before Facebook, a leader of the social networking world, is replaced by the next ''it'' company, pushing the likes of Yahoo and Microsoft further down the list of the area's most desirable tech factories. 
 ''Facebook will be hot for a while, and then there will be other hot places that come along,'' said Mr. Demas, the former Microsoft and Yahoo employee. ''People want to have an impact, and it's hard to make an impact when you're being hired as employee No. 90,000.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (69%); INTERNET BROWSERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (86%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



111 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Cold Chinese Grow Angry Over Lack of Preparation

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
For two weeks running, much of this country, long known for its capacity for mass mobilization, has been tied in knots by a series of major snowstorms.
 Although the snowfall has been described as the worst here in 50 years, it has been nothing like the deep cover that blankets parts of New England or the upper Midwest in many winters.
 But its crippling effect seems to have been mostly because of surprise. The storm knocked out electricity and water supplies, threatened the coal supply that fuels the country's power plants and stranded millions of Chinese on the eve of the year's most important holiday. 
 Many of the worst effects have been in parts of east-central and southern China, which are largely unaccustomed to serious snowfall. 
 Many victims, however -- as many as 100 million people were directly affected -- equate surprise on such a huge scale with lack of preparation. 
 For migrant workers unable to take their annual leave for the Lunar New Year, or for others stuck at home without electricity, water, regular supplies of food or even reliable news, the government, instead of an unpredictable weather system, increasingly appears to be the culprit.
 In the last week the Chinese government has worked as hard at public relations over the crisis as it has over crisis management itself. 
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, who has traveled around affected areas almost nonstop, went early in the week to the southern city of Guangzhou, where as many as 800,000 people had gathered at the train station at one point seeking to begin their annual vacations. 
 President Hu Jintao went to a coal mine in northern Shaanxi Province to encourage miners to redouble their efforts, including forgoing New Year celebrations, to spare the country's power grid from further brownouts. Mr. Hu, who is known for his circumspection in public, was quoted as saying he was unable to sleep because of the scale of the emergency.
 But in many badly affected areas the government seems to have almost disappeared, so overwhelmed it has been by the demand for emergency services. In other areas poor coordination between levels of government and among various agencies has seriously complicated matters. 
 ''The main problem is lack of preparedness,'' said Luo Shihong, a relief volunteer in Guiyang, in Guizhou Province. ''By late January both the government and people thought the sky would clear up in a couple of days and it would be over. The officials had a lot of confidence initially, then a day or two later they discovered how unprepared they were mentally, physically and in terms of manpower.''
 Xie Yonggang, a crisis management expert in northeastern Heilongjiang Province, had a similar explanation: ''Despite the weather forecasts, the transportation department didn't realize how serious this was until all the roads were already blocked.''
 In Guangzhou, the capital of southeastern Guangdong Province, which has the largest concentration of migrant labor, these crossed signals may have narrowly missed causing disaster among the desperate crowds stranded at the train station.
 Provincial authorities have worked hard for days to convince would-be travelers to abandon their plans to spend the holidays with family in faraway provinces, arranging ticket refunds, setting up shelters and offering nonstop propaganda about the money-saving virtues of staying put. Several hundred thousand people were gradually persuaded to leave the area of the train station.
 On Thursday, though, a spokesman for the Railway Ministry said anyone wishing to travel home by train from Guangdong Province would be able to do so within five days. That brought a new surge of passengers, worsening the potentially explosive scene at the station.
 Two people reportedly died at the station on Sunday, one crushed in a stampede and the other electrocuted as he tried to jump aboard a train. 
 ''The Railway Ministry has a tone that is different from that of Guangdong, whose attitude had been clear,'' said Wen Yunchao, a freelance Internet journalist. It would have been better to hold back as many people as possible so that some could go, instead of telling everyone they could go, he said. 
 The crisis in Guangdong has been made worse by other contradictions, as well. Although the provincial government has tried to encourage workers to remain at their dormitories, nobody seems to have coordinated with the factories.
 ''Many factories in the Pearl Delta are already closed or have laid off workers,'' said Mr. Wen, the journalist. ''The workers at those places have to go home, and they have brought all of their belongings and a few days' cash out with them. They don't plan to return to Guangzhou and don't have a way back home, and we've seen no government arrangements directed at this group.'' 
 Transportation is far from the only problem. China's entire power system, from its extensive reliance on coal to its use of a high-tension power grid spanning the country, has proven surprisingly vulnerable. Agriculture, too, has suffered.
 With train service badly affected, the authorities have faced the awkward choice of ferrying passengers or ferrying coal to power plants with the locomotives still in service. By some estimates, China's coal reserves at power plants had dwindled to a historic low, with only a two-day supply remaining in many places.
 Liu Xinfang, a spokesman for the national grid, said that as of Saturday 2,000 transmission towers and about 24,000 miles of transmission cables were still down in central and eastern China. ''The wires have been frozen into huge ice sticks,'' he said. ''Some towers are bearing four times their weight.''
 Others said the high number of collapsed transmission towers was a result of the fact that in southern China they are spaced far apart, largely as an economy measure.
 One of the worst-hit areas for power has been Chenzhou, a city of four million in Hunan Province, where many have lacked water, electricity, heating or commercial food supplies for 10 days.
 ''Our power grid system was seriously damaged, in fact torn to pieces, and it is very hard to repair,'' said Li Yufang, chief of the city's emergency operations center. ''When one part of the grid is fixed, another suddenly collapses, so power can only be transmitted intermittently.''
 In southeastern Guizhou, another hard-hit area, officials said there had been extensive loss of winter crops, like wheat. Power has been out there for weeks.
 ''In towns and villages life now depends on primitive means,'' said Lu Jiang, a spokesman for Southeast Qian Prefecture. ''We get light from burning pine, and families grind grains with stone mortars. It's not difficult to survive, but to live the way we did before the snow began, we will have to wait until the next season.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Snow occasionally falls in southern cities like Hangzhou, but the recent crippling winter storms have been the worst in 50 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: The snowstorm's effects were most visible in Guangzhou. Map of Guangzhou, China. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); WEATHER (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (87%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (75%); COAL MINING (75%); COAL INDUSTRY (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (74%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); MIGRANT WORKERS (53%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (74%); WEN JIABAO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); GUIZHOU, CHINA (72%); MIDWEST USA (72%); SHAANXI, CHINA (57%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (57%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (57%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



112 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Dyspepsia On The Right

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
The prospect of John McCain as the likely Republican presidential nominee has produced a squall of anger on the right. Normally reserved columnists and usually ebullient talk-radio hosts vie to express their disgust with McCain, and their disdain for the Republicans who are about to nominate him. The conservative movement as a whole appears disgruntled and dyspeptic.
 Now I have nothing against a certain amount of disgruntlement and dyspepsia. The ways of the world, and the decisions of our fellow Americans, occasionally warrant such a reaction. 
 But American politics tends to be unkind to movements that dwell in anger and relish their unhappiness. In the era from Franklin D. Roosevelt to John F. Kennedy, liberals tended to be happy warriors -- and that helped their cause. The original civil rights movement succeeded in part because it worked hard to transcend a justifiable bitterness. Liberalism faltered when it became endlessly aggrieved and visibly churlish. 
 The American conservative movement has been remarkably successful. We shouldn't take that success for granted. It's not easy being a conservative movement in a modern liberal democracy. It's not easy to rally a comfortable and commercial people to assume the responsibilities of a great power. It's not easy to defend excellence in an egalitarian age. It's not easy to encourage self-reliance in the era of the welfare state. It's not easy to make the case for the traditional virtues in the face of the seductions of liberation, or to speak of duties in a world of rights and of honor in a nation pursuing pleasure.
 One reason conservatives have been able to navigate the rapids of modern America is that they've often gone out of their way to make their case with good cheer. William F. Buckley, the father of the conservative movement, skewered liberals, but always with wit and elan. By 1980, bolstered by the growth-oriented doctrine of supply-side economics, and speaking the language of American uplift more than that of conservative despair, Ronald Reagan won the presidency.
 Since then we conservatives have had a pretty good run. We had a chance to implement a fair share of our ideas, and they worked. In the 1980s and 90s, conservative policies helped win the cold war, revive the economy and reduce crime and welfare dependency. American conservatism's ascendancy has benefited this country -- and much of the world -- over the last quarter-century.
 This is an important moment for the conservative movement. Not because conservatives have some sort of obligation to fall in behind John McCain. They don't. Those conservatives who can't abide McCain are free to rally around Mitt Romney. And if McCain does prevail for the nomination, conservatives are free to sit out the election.
 But I'd say this to them: When the primaries are over, if McCain has won the day, don't sulk and don't sit it out. Don't pretend there's no difference between a candidate who's committed to winning in Iraq and a Democratic nominee who embraces defeat. Don't tell us that it doesn't matter if the next president voted to confirm John Roberts and Samuel Alito for the Supreme Court, or opposed them. Don't close your eyes to the difference between pro-life and pro-choice, or between resistance to big government and the embrace of it.
 And don't treat 2008 as a throwaway election. If a Democrat wins the presidency, he or she will almost certainly have a Democratic Congress to work with. That Congress will not impede a course of dishonorable retreat abroad. It won't balk at liberal Supreme Court nominees at home. It won't save the economy from tax hikes.
 If, by contrast, McCain wins the presidency -- and all the polls suggest he'd be the best G.O.P. bet to do so -- he'll be able to shape a strong American foreign policy, nominate sound justices and fight for parts of the conservative domestic agenda. 
 One might add a special reason that conservatives -- and the nation -- owe John McCain at least a respectful hearing. Only a year ago, we were headed toward defeat in Iraq. Without McCain's public advocacy and private lobbying, President Bush might not have reversed strategy and announced the surge of troops in January 2007. Without McCain's vigorous leadership, support for the surge in Congress would not have been sustained in the first few months of 2007. So: No McCain, no surge. No surge, failure in Iraq, a terrible setback for America -- and, as it happens, no chance for a G.O.P. victory in 2008. 
 Some conservatives can close their eyes to all this. They can choose to stand aside from history while having a temper tantrum. But they should consider that the American people might then choose not to invite them back into a position of responsibility for quite a while to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (76%); COLD WAR (75%); WRITERS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



113 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Conflicts Are Not Over Core Goals, but How to Get There

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Although the surviving presidential candidates furiously attack one another over the details of their tax, health and Iraq proposals, there is more consensus in the parties these days than disagreement.
 Democrats would roll back the Bush administration's tax cuts for wealthy Americans, for example, while Republicans would extend them. Republicans would try to make private health insurance more affordable through tax incentives, while Democrats would use subsidies and new government programs to try to cover every American.
 Much of the conflict within the parties revolves around the candidates' character, leadership skills and consistency -- rather than the big questions of taxing, spending and foreign affairs. In contrast to some primary elections, like 1968 for the Democrats or 1976 for the Republicans, these are not parties fundamentally in conflict over core principles.
 Still, the candidates do disagree over means, if not ends. They do differ over the priority given problems. And given that several candidates have ''evolved'' on issues as the campaign has progressed, they do challenge one another's commitment and sincerity. 
 Health Care
 Some of the sharpest recent exchanges on the Democratic side have come over health care.
 Both Senator Barack Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton have proposed multibillion dollar plans to expand coverage to the 47 million uninsured people in the United States, financed in part by rolling back Mr. Bush's tax cuts for those making more than $250,000 a year. 
 Both would expand coverage by a combination of subsidies for families and employers and the creation of public and private programs through which Americans can buy affordable coverage. But while Mrs. Clinton would require everyone to acquire coverage, Mr. Obama would require insurance only for children.
 The Obama campaign argues that Mrs. Clinton's requirement is onerous and unfair; Clinton forces counter that unless Democrats start with the goal of universal coverage, they will never come close to achieving it.
 The debate over details troubles analysts like Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute, who argues that it obscures the overwhelming challenge of passing any big health plan. ''Laying out the vision is fine, but facing the reality of how difficult fundamental change will be for a sector that represents 16 percent of our G.D.P, has to be front and center,'' Mr. Reischauer said, referring to the health care industry's prominence in the economy.
 While Democrats argue over universal coverage, Drew E. Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health care research group, said Republicans ''are articulating a different priority.'' The Republicans present their goal as ''creating a more efficient and therefore more affordable health care marketplace,'' Mr. Altman said.
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, for example, proposes a new system of tax credits to encourage people to buy insurance in the private marketplace.
 Mitt Romney emphasizes giving states more flexibility with federal health money, encouraging deregulation of private health insurance markets and increasing the deductibility of medical expenses. This represents an evolution for Mr. Romney; the plan he signed into law as governor in Massachusetts included a requirement that everyone obtain insurance, which drew fire from some conservatives and from the McCain forces as a ''big government mandate.'' 
 Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas, promises to expand coverage with ''market-based, consumer-based policies'' like tax credits to buy private insurance.
 Taxes
 Here again, the distance between the parties is vast. Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, notes that while the Republican candidates ''didn't start in the same place'' on the Bush tax cuts, ''they've all moved in the same direction.'' The main Republican candidates support the idea of making permanent the Bush administration's tax cuts, which will otherwise soon begin to expire, and adding cuts for businesses and individuals. 
 As Mr. McCain puts it on his Web site, ''Entrepreneurs should not be taxed into submission.''
 Even so, this subject has led to some sharp exchanges between Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain, who initially voted against the Bush tax cuts on fiscal grounds. Mr. Romney has argued that Mr. McCain's initial votes throw his conservatism into question.
 The Democrats would roll back the Bush tax cuts on the most affluent, and replace them with an array of tax cuts for middle- and lower-income Americans. Mr. Obama, for example, would expand the earned-income tax credit for low-income workers and create a ''Making Work Pay'' tax credit of up to $1,000 per family. ''When you work in this country, you should not be poor,'' Mr. Obama said Sunday.
 Mrs. Clinton has proposed middle-class tax cuts for health care, caregiving, energy efficiency and college costs, as well as what aides characterize as the ''most aggressive matching tax cuts for savings'' that could produce nest eggs of hundreds of thousands of dollars by retirement.
 Both Democrats are also pushing major plans to stimulate the economy. Mrs. Clinton proposes aggressive action to deal with the home mortgage crisis, including a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures and a freeze in rates on many subprime loans. She cited her housing proposals as one of the big differences in economic policy between her and her opponent in last week's debate.
 ''I think it's imperative that we approach this mortgage crisis with the seriousness that it is presenting,'' she said. ''There are 95,000 homes in foreclosure in California right now. I want a moratorium on foreclosures for 90 days, so we can try to work out keeping people in their homes, instead of having them lose their homes.''
 On the Republican side, there is one huge distinction among the candidates: Mr. Huckabee has proposed scrapping the income tax system and replacing it with a national sales tax.
 Social Security
 The looming strains in the nation's entitlement system -- especially Medicare, the health program for the aged, and to a lesser extent Social Security -- are likely to be one of the most difficult domestic challenges the next president will face. But the issue has come to the forefront only briefly in the primary season, in a skirmish among the Democrats. 
 Both Democrats oppose the creation of private investment accounts in Social Security, which Mr. Bush sought in 2005. Both have expressed support for a bipartisan commission to look at the long-term financial health of the program. But Mr. Obama has expressed interest in raising the cap on income subject to the Social Security tax -- currently $97,500 -- while Mrs. Clinton has stopped short of that.
 Iraq
 On the Democratic side, the debate over Iraq has revolved around one big difference between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton: Mr. Obama, who was not in the Senate at the time, opposed the war in Iraq from the beginning, while Mrs. Clinton voted for the resolution authorizing the use of force. Obama allies argue that his stance underscores his good judgment and should override any fears about his lack of foreign policy experience.
 Both candidates opposed the Bush administration's troop buildup. And both have proposed phased withdrawals of combat troops from Iraq. Mr. Obama has promised to have combat troops out of Iraq 16 months after taking office. Mrs. Clinton has said her goal is to remove most troops in her first year.
 On the Republican side, Mr. McCain has been a forceful advocate for the troop buildup in Iraq and has opposed a timeline for withdrawal. In recent weeks, he has tried to portray Mr. Romney as occasionally wavering in his support, a charge fiercely denounced by Mr. Romney. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the presidential candidates' stances on health care, taxes and other issues misstated the cap on income subject to the Social Security tax. It is now $102,000 -- not $97,500, the cap for 2007.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Huckabee tossing a torn-up tax form at a rally in Macon, Ga., on Sunday. Mr. Huckabee has proposed scrapping the nation's income tax system and replacing it with a national sales tax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FOUNDATIONS (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (73%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MACON, GA, USA (59%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



114 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: It's the Economy Again, and Some See Similarities to 1992

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An economic downturn at election time almost always spells disaster for the political party that holds the White House. But the slowdown this year could add an especially cruel twist for the Republican presidential nominee.
 If the United States manages to escape a recession this year, many economists say it will be because Washington policy makers jolted the economy early with a two-fisted injection of tax rebates and sharply lower interest rates.
 But in what could be a haunting replay of what happened to President George H. W. Bush in 1992, economists caution that voters are not likely to feel much better at election time even if the economy is rebounding.
 In a rare political alignment, President Bush and Democratic lawmakers in Congress are rushing to pass a package of tax rebates and tax cuts that could inject about $160 billion into the economy by summer. 
 On top of that, the Federal Reserve has reduced interest rates, which should lead to looser credit for mortgages, car purchases and business investment. Though it takes time for interest rate cuts to take full effect, their impact on mortgage rates and home-buying can be swift.
 Economists at Goldman Sachs predicted on Friday that the ''bigger-than-expected fiscal stimulus'' and the lower interest rates would cause the economy to start growing again by this summer -- though it cautioned that growth would slow again early next year.
 Global Insight, a forecasting firm in Lexington, Mass., said the fiscal pump-priming would be so concentrated in the spring and summer that the economy could spurt at an annual rate of 4 percent from July through September.
 But all of that is likely to be cold comfort to incumbent politicians. Republicans face the biggest risk, because they have controlled the White House for eight years. The problem is that employment growth often lags several quarters behind economic growth, and those lags appear to have been longer than usual during both of the last recessions.
 By the elections in November 1992, the economy had clearly begun to recover from the recession in 1991. But job growth remained so slow that Bill Clinton was able to defeat George H. W. Bush, then the president, by sounding alarms about a ''jobless recovery.''
 Of course, Democratic incumbents in Congress are not immune to voter wrath. And an economic downturn could make it easier for Republicans to attack the Democratic presidential nominee for wanting to raise taxes on the wealthy.
 Both Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Senator Barack Obama of Illinois have called for rolling back the 2001 tax cuts for families with incomes above $250,000.
 The lag between economic growth and job growth was unusually long after the last recession in 2001. With businesses worried about terrorism and the looming prospect of a war against Iraq, the economy continued to shed jobs until 2003. A similar effect in the current downturn could affect voters' moods in November, some economists say.
 ''From a political point of view, the job market is not going to provide a lot of comfort at election time, especially for Republicans,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight.
 Drawing on a model that correlates past economic performance and past election results, Global Insight is predicting that the Republican candidate for president in November will receive only 46 percent of the vote.
 Such models have often been wrong before. But Republicans are keenly aware that Mr. Bush received little credit from voters for the last five years of good economic growth.
 Polls conducted by The New York Times going back to the early 1980s indicate that voters began expressing less confidence in Republicans on economic issues in 2003. When asked which party they thought was ''more likely to ensure a strong economy,'' respondents in October 2006 favored Democrats over Republicans 51 percent to 36 percent.
 In The Times's most recent poll, in December 2007, as economic anxiety was rising, 49 percent said they were more confident that Democrats would ensure a strong economy while 31 percent named Republicans.
 Most economists, including those at the Federal Reserve, say that economic growth has already slowed sharply and will probably be almost stagnant for the first half of 2008.
 On Friday, the Labor Department's employment report for January provided stark evidence that job creation was stalling and unemployment was increasing.
 The government estimated that the country lost 17,000 jobs in January, and that job growth had slowed in many areas. The biggest losses were in manufacturing, and in construction.
 The monthly job numbers are volatile and are often revised heavily in later months. For example, the government has raised its initially bleak estimate for December, from a net gain of only 18,000 jobs to 82,000 jobs.
 But the longer-term trend has been toward steadily slower job growth and rising unemployment. In 2005, the economy added, on average, 211,000 jobs a month. That pace slowed to just 95,000 jobs a month in 2007.
 Even if the Labor Department raises its initial estimate of job growth for January, employment is unlikely to keep up with increases in the number of workers. To avoid higher unemployment, the economy needs to generate about 150,000 jobs a month.
 ''A picture of the economy is starting to crystallize, and it shows the recession has begun,'' wrote Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, a forecasting firm based in Princeton, N.J. ''Only time will tell how deep and long-lasting this downturn will be.''
 Other forecasters predict that the economy can still avert an actual contraction. But even the Federal Reserve is bracing for a sharp slowdown in the next several months. The housing market, where home-building and home sales have both plunged by about half from their peaks in 2006, has yet to hit bottom.
 President Bush has acknowledged the slowdown, but he has continued to sound optimistic.
 ''We're just in a rough patch, witnessed by the unemployment figures today,'' Mr. Bush said on Friday, during a tour of Hallmark Cards in Kansas City, Mo. ''I'm confident that we're going to get through the rough patch.''
 Mr. Bush recently reached agreement with House Democrats on about a $160 billion stimulus package of income tax rebates and temporary business tax breaks. But Senate Democrats are pushing for more payments to senior citizens and to extend unemployment benefits.
 Mrs. Clinton, on the campaign trail, said the country was ''sliding into a second Bush recession.'' Mr. Obama repeated his call for repealing the tax breaks on high-income families ''who didn't need them and didn't ask for them.''
 But Democrats have already found that calling for tax increases, especially in a downturn, can be treacherous. When Charles B. Rangel of New York, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, proposed a sweeping tax overhaul that would reduce taxes for most middle-income families but raise them on families earning more than $200,000, Republican lawmakers pounced on the plan as ''the mother of all tax hikes'' and a ''nightmare for families.''
 House Democratic leaders have remained studiously silent about the plan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In 1992, growth was so slow that Bill Clinton defeated George H. W. Bush by sounding alarms about a ''jobless recovery.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); RECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); IRAQ WAR (62%); TERRORISM (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



115 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE EMPIRE ZONE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer's Budget Plans, and the Iffy Real Estate Deals Behind Them

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer's budget, specifically his ambitious plan to encourage moderately priced housing, is predicated on raising $900 million by selling two parcels of land to the north and south of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. 
 Here's the problem. Not only would the Legislature have to approve any sale, but the city would have to rezone the 3.6-acre parcel north of the convention center, which is available because plans to expand it have been scaled back. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other city officials, however, do not want to sell the northern parcel, which would account for roughly half of the value of the deal. 
 ''Even if you don't use it now, if you sold off that property, it would keep us from in the future ever expanding Javits Center in that direction,'' the mayor said in a recent radio interview. ''Now the governor, I think, said that it would raise some money to put into Javits, but I'm not sure that's a good trade-off.'' 
 In an interview, Paul Francis, the governor's director of operations, conceded that ''the consensus still has to be built for the sale of the north parcel,'' which lies between 39th and 40th Streets. 
 The impasse underscores that some of the governor's glossiest proposals -- from the $400 million housing fund to a $4 billion endowment for the State University of New York -- depend on major asset sales that are a long way from done deals. That fiscal strategy is a symptom of the fact that the state faces a $4.4 billion deficit and a gloomy economy and is looking for creative ways to raise money. 
 Mr. Spitzer, above right, is considered likely to preserve his housing plan and to look for cuts elsewhere. A sale of the south parcel, which the mayor and the governor have agreed upon, would bring in several hundred million dollars. 
 However, the $900 million expected from the sale of both parcels was supposed to help finance a variety of transportation initiatives, such as the new Moynihan Station in the James A. Farley Post Office building, as well as improvements to Hudson River Park. If the potential land sale is cut in half, something will have to give. 
 There is also the question of how a sale of the southern parcel, which is also about 3.6 acres, would fare in a tenuous real estate market. 
 ''I think this is a valuable piece of land in a part of the city that is undergoing significant development,'' said Patrick J. Foye, the downstate chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. 
 ''We think that it's worth significantly north of $400 million,'' he added. ''Obviously a market test will confirm what it's worth.''
 Bruno Sounds Off
 Love is still not in the air in Albany. 
 With the Spitzer administration facing three investigations related to an effort last summer to discredit the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, did anyone think Mr. Bruno would forgive and forget? Not likely. Mr. Bruno, the feisty 78-year-old (and former Army boxing champion), cut loose on the governor last week. 
 ''It still puzzles me that this man has not learned in this past year, where he has fallen from the heights to the depths, that he still doesn't get it,'' Mr. Bruno said in an interview on WCBI-AM in Albany, referring to the governor's sinking poll numbers. 
 ''People appreciate checks and balance and bipartisan and conferring with others from all opinions, instead of a dictatorial attitude, a steamroller attitude, a bully kind of thing, going to beat everybody into submission,'' Mr. Bruno added. 
 ''He's obsessed that he's going to get me out of the way, and our Republican majority, and he thinks that vindicates him if he becomes the only man left standing, the only game in town, truly in a position to sort of dictate and bully from his pulpit, which is very powerful. That's his strategy.'' 
 O.K. then. For those who did not get the message, Mr. Bruno put his feelings more succinctly in a speech last week to county leaders from across the state. 
 ''You all know that I am not the greatest fan of this governor,'' he said, drawing chuckles, ''and he is not my greatest fan.'' 
 An Ally's Complaints
 Criticism of the governor's budget has been growing, which is not a surprise in a year of modest belt-tightening. 
 But the Senate minority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, left, a Queens Democrat and ostensible ally of the governor, went after Mr. Spitzer last week for not cutting enough. 
 ''We aren't controlling spending as much as I think we should,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I think a $124- to $126-billion budget is more than generous.''
 He added that the Democratic caucus in the Senate ''is still looking at other ways in which we can bring that number down a little bit.'' TRYMAINE LEE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ZONING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); CITIES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); ENDOWMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



116 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Long Battle May Benefit Republicans

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The good news for the 2008 presidential candidates is that only hours remain in their torturous march across the Super Tuesday battlefield.
 The bad news: A new trek begins the next morning.
 For the Democrats, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, it will be longer -- perhaps excruciatingly so. For Republicans, the end may be closer. 
 Which raises the possibility that 2008 could produce another jack-in-the-box surprise: The party with advantages in polls and popular enthusiasm, and two path-breaking candidates, could yet march into trouble. And the party with the beleaguered White House incumbent and comparatively weak presidential field could grow stronger for the fall campaign. 
 A Marathon
 Little attention has yet been paid to the states that follow the 22 that speak on Tuesday. But four days later, Democrats select delegates in Louisiana, Nebraska, Washington and the Virgin Islands. On Feb. 10, Democrats in Maine hold caucuses. On Feb. 12, Democrats inside the Beltway and within driving distance vote in the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia. A week later, it's Hawaii and Wisconsin.
 These 10 contests have fewer than one-third the 2,075 delegates at stake on Tuesday. Yet if the delegate contest remains close, they could help either Mr. Obama, of Illinois, or Mrs. Clinton, of New York, open up a lead.
 The Obama campaign likes its chances for several reasons. One is that contests so far have shown that the more time he has to campaign, the better he does against Mrs. Clinton.
 The other is that the Obama campaign moves into the later contests with a financial cushion of $32 million he raised in January, triple the Clinton campaign's January goal and enough for Mr. Obama to begin media advertising to supplement organizational efforts in those states. ''They just can't match it,'' says Steve Hildebrand, an Obama campaign strategist.
 The Clinton campaign sees its own advantages on the long march. One is the diminishing number of caucuses and ''open'' primaries, which have been playing to Mr. Obama's strengths in organizing and among independents. Another is the big March 4 contests: Ohio, a prime venue for Mrs. Clinton's economic message, and Texas, where her edge among Hispanics could be decisive.
 In any case, notes Karen Hicks, a Clinton campaign strategist, ''This is going to be won by inches, not yards.''
 Nearing the Finish?
 The Republican race has a similar calendar but a different feel. Building on wins in New Hampshire, South Carolina and Florida, Mr. McCain is accumulating endorsements in a party that traditionally rallies around its front-runner. Republicans favor ''winner take all'' procedures that could magnify the effects of Mr. McCain's widening lead in national polls.
 The candidate is confident enough to attend a conference with European defense ministers later this week in Munich. His campaign manager, Rick Davis, who sees Republicans ''really coalescing around John McCain,'' plans to take a little time off. 
 Mitt Romney's campaign insists that conservatives' misgivings about Mr. McCain are serious enough to revive his chances in coming contests. ''In a year of unpredictable twists and turns, who's to say?'' says Kevin Madden, a Romney spokesman.
 The former governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee, has not signaled a quick departure, either. But his nice-guy campaign, which blocks Mr. Romney from consolidating social conservatives, has acquired the aura of a vice-presidential audition more than a serious challenge to Mr. McCain.
 Mr. McCain, then, sees the coming contests as a way to ''continue to grow the message all across the country,'' in Mr. Davis's words, while parrying new attacks from Democrats. 
 Turnabout?
 As California prepares to vote on Tuesday, the Democrats have in their state a statistical demonstration of their party's edge in verve, says Bob Mulholland, a longtime Democratic operative. In the last 45 days of primary registration, 150,633 Californians registered as Democrats, while 39,246 registered as Republicans.
 But while Republicans see hope of catching a second wind if their race ends quickly, a prolonged Democratic fight threatens to stir the sensitivities of racial, ethnic and gender constituencies.
 The more those divisions ''are expressed and made raw, that's an enormous detriment to them,'' says Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster. Meanwhile, for Republicans, Mr. McInturff says, ''Having a chance to raise money, unite the party, build an election staff and rest the candidate is an enormous advantage.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



117 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Late and Lame on Warming

 BODY:
Even allowing for the low expectations we bring to any lame-duck president's final State of the Union address, President Bush's brief discussion of climate change seemed especially disconnected from reality: from the seriousness and urgency of the problem and from his own responsibility for obstructing progress. 
 His call for a new international agreement to address global warming was disingenuous, coming as it did from a president who rejected the Kyoto Protocol as soon as he moved into the White House. His promise to work with other nations on new, low-carbon technologies is one he has been unveiling for the last seven years. 
 We were told that Mr. Bush's thinking on global warming had evolved. So there were slim hopes that, after years of stonewalling, he might agree to work with Congress on a mandatory program of capping carbon emissions. That would begin to address the problem at home and give the United States the credibility it needs to press other major emitters like China to act. No such luck. Mr. Bush remains wedded to a voluntary approach that has not inspired industry to take aggressive action.
 Meanwhile, the stonewalling continues. Despite heavy pressure from Congress and many state governors, the Environmental Protection Agency shows no sign of reversing its decision to prohibit California and more than a dozen other states from moving forward with aggressive measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles. 
 Nor has the E.P.A. made any visible effort to comply with the Supreme Court's landmark decision last spring requiring the agency to begin regulating carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles. Mr. Bush said he would follow the court's order and the E.P.A. promised at least a draft of new regulations by last fall. We are still waiting. 
 The administration has long trumpeted technology, not regulation, as the answer. There was no trumpeting last week, when it unexpectedly canceled FutureGen -- its much-touted, $1.8 billion attempt to develop a cutting-edge coal plant that would turn coal to gas, strip out and store underground the carbon dioxide that contributes to climate change, and then burn the remaining gas to produce hydrogen and electricity. And what of Mr. Bush's hydrogen-powered Freedom Car? That, too, has receded from view. 
 These setbacks do not mean that government should not seek new technologies to address global warming. Continuing research at all levels is vital. The error is placing too much faith in grandiose projects and technological leaps to solve a problem that is urgently here and now. The most realistic path to reducing global warming gases is to limit emissions across the economy by putting a price on carbon. That would give private industry strong incentives to develop greater efficiencies and cleaner fuels.
 This is the path called for in a bill now before Congress. Sponsored by Senator John Warner and Senator Joseph Lieberman, it would impose binding targets on greenhouse gas emissions. It is also the course that Mr. Bush has stubbornly and dismayingly resisted since he arrived in Washington. With a year left in office, Mr. Bush could still make a difference -- but not with more empty promises and obstruction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (66%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); COAL INDUSTRY (61%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); JOHN WARNER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



118 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Once a Thorn, McCain Now Courts a Wary Party

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
He says he is not enough of a masochist to listen to Rush Limbaugh. He jokes at a Republican dinner about a looming foreign policy crisis: ''I have a four-hour speech on the North Korean nuclear buildup that I know you've been waiting for.'' And he still treats the media as his No. 1 constituency, plying them with nonstop talk and stories, like one about a date from his Navy days who cleaned her nails with a switchblade.
 But now the money is rolling in, more than $7 million in January alone. The candidate jets around the country on a White House-like charter with security, baggage handlers and flowing food and drink. He is reveling in big-time Republican endorsements that may soon include, he hopes, support from the National Rifle Association.
 Senator John McCain, Republican renegade, is making a head-spinning transition, seeking to win over the Republican establishment and harness all that comes with it. After winning the New Hampshire, South Carolina and Florida primaries, a candidate whose campaign once consisted of a handful of unpaid aides suddenly has a shot on Tuesday at becoming the de facto leader of a party he has often defied and exasperated. 
 But in enveloping himself in the Republican cloak, Mr. McCain, his aides acknowledge, risks the outsider status that appeals to the independents and Democrats he might need to win in November. 
 Mr. McCain learned that the hard way: The maverick who ran against George W. Bush in 2000 headed into the 2008 race with all the expensive accouterments of the front-runner, only to lose some of his political identity when he embraced evangelicals and the Republican orthodoxy of tax cuts, not to mention an unpopular war. By last summer Mr. McCain's campaign had all but collapsed and he was flying into New Hampshire alone to meet with small clutches of voters.
 Now his goal is to stand with a foot on each side of the divide. He wants to maintain his role as an independent-minded candidate who offers endless access to reporters and ''straight talk'' to voters in intimate settings. But at the same time, he must mend the deep rifts within his own party, convince wary conservatives that he can be counted on when it comes to issues like judicial appointments and tax cuts, and run a national campaign aimed not just at the White House but at helping his party in Congress.
 ''He's trying to run this writ large in the way he ran in New Hampshire,'' said Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain's closest aides, on a flight Saturday when Mr. McCain flew to rallies in Tennessee, Alabama and Georgia, without a single town-hall-style meeting. ''What he will resist is turning this into a bubble.''
 But Mr. Salter and Mr. McCain's other advisers acknowledge that they do not have a plan for how to do that after Tuesday's nominating contests. ''It took a lot of energy and creativity to get to this point,'' Mr. Salter said. ''You're going to have to give us a few weeks to figure it out.'' 
 The logistics alone will be daunting, as was clear on Friday when Mr. McCain tried to recreate the rolling media seminar of his campaign bus in the narrow aisle of his chartered plane. As a large crowd of reporters climbed over seats and pushed and squeezed to try to get close to him, Mr. McCain, en route from St. Louis to Chicago, acted as media handler and traffic cop. ''If you will lift that boom a second,'' he told one television sound technician. 
 ''This is the problem with not having a bus,'' Mr. McCain added. ''We should have gone to Chicago by bus.''
 But the more substantive challenge for Mr. McCain is how to retain independents and moderate Democrats as he increasingly woos the right to try to rally the party around his candidacy. Last week, he released his first national television commercial, ''True Conservative,'' which showed him in a meeting with Ronald Reagan and declared that he was ''a proud social conservative who will never waver.'' 
 Mr. McCain, who has long opposed abortion rights, has been announcing endorsements from leading conservatives almost hourly -- the former presidential candidate Steve Forbes and Theodore B. Olson, a former solicitor general, came on board Friday -- although he still faces intense opposition from many conservatives, including Mr. Limbaugh, the talk radio host, who is one of his most vocal critics. Still, Mr. McCain's aides say they believe voters know who he is and insist he will not cater to the right as he tries to secure the nomination.
 ''We are acutely aware that McCain has a unique brand,'' said Trey Walker, Mr. McCain's South Carolina political consultant. ''The brand is working right now, and if you try to inject a new Coke into this presidential race, we'll lose to the Democrats.''
 With the nation facing the possibility of recession, Mr. McCain's aides also acknowledge that he will have to become as fluent in economic policy as he is in his specialty, foreign affairs. In the primary races in Michigan and Florida last month, Mr. McCain often had Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, at his side to answer questions from voters about the subprime mortgage crisis. At a hot-tub plant in Orlando, Ms. Fiorina served as Mr. McCain's moderator at an economic forum. 
 But even in such a setting, Mr. McCain could not seem to help himself from veering into foreign policy. When he was asked in Orlando about what he would do about rising oil prices, he first wandered into a discourse on the confrontation in the Strait of Hormuz between three American warships and five Iranian speedboats last month and then segued into talk of the evidence that the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as FARC, was supplying Venezuela with ammunition.
 Charles Black, a veteran of every Republican presidential campaign since 1976 and one of Mr. McCain's senior advisers, said that Mr. McCain would sit down with his economic team after Tuesday and burrow into more policy detail. ''He'll get more in depth about the micro issues,'' Mr. Black said.
 Mr. McCain will also travel this weekend to Germany, where he will attend an annual NATO meeting in Munich on security policy. Mr. McCain is expected to meet with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and perhaps with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. 
 Although Mr. McCain attends the conference every year as part of his Senate business, this year there will be far more attention on him. His advisers anticipate that he will make other foreign trips this year to promote his foreign policy credentials to voters who are just now tuning in.
 In the meantime, Mr. McCain sounded like a good party man in an appearance on ''Fox News Sunday'' and also at a Friday night stop in suburban Chicago at the annual dinner of the DuPage County Republicans.
 ''The first thing we have to do after Tuesday,'' Mr. McCain told the cheering crowd in Chicago, in a sentiment he carefully echoed on Fox News, ''is unite this party.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain in the Green Dragon bar in Boston before the Super Bowl. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman is at right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (69%); TAX LAW (68%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE ALABAMA & GEORGIA RAILWAY CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



119 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 Chad's Leaders Struggle To Regain the Capital
 Fighting raged for a second day in the capital of Chad, with the government making an all-out attempt to beat back rebels who overran the capital Saturday, Chadian officials said. A3 
 China's Online Rebels 
 As China's censors have tightened controls over the Internet, they have fostered a backlash, as many people who previously had little interest in politics have become active in resisting the controls. A1 
 U.S. Kills 9 Iraqi Civilians
 American forces said they had accidentally killed nine Iraqi civilians and wounded three in a strike aimed at militants of Al Qaeda south of Baghdad. A10 
 The Pentagon will unveil its proposed 2009 budget of $515.4 billion on Monday. If it is approved in full, annual military spending will reach its highest level since World War II. A10 
 Serbian Incumbent Wins
 Boris Tadic, Serbia's pro-Western incumbent, won the presidential runoff election in a closely contested race. A11 
 Israel Coalition Stabilizes
 Ehud Barak, Israel's defense minister and the leader of the Labor Party, announced that he would remain in the government, stabilizing Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's coalition. A4 
 NATIONALA12-21 
 McCain Leads in Polls; 
 Democrats Fight It Out
 Senator John McCain was said by Republicans to be in a commanding position as more than 20 nominating contests approach. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama were locked in a tough national fight, illustrated by polls showing the race had tightened nationally and in crucial states. A1 
 John McCain, a Republican renegade, is making a head-spinning transition, after winning the New Hampshire, South Carolina and Florida primaries with a shot at becoming the de facto leader of a party he often defied and exasperated. A19 
 Showdown in California
 California is the biggest battle of tomorrow's showdown. The realities of the state, with its sagging economy and complex political process, may determine which of the two remaining Democratic candidates will win the nomination. A20 
 One Survived Chicago Attack
 As families grieved and issued statements about the five women killed in an apparent robbery gone wrong outside a suburban Chicago shopping center, police sources confirmed that one other woman survived the attack. A12 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA23-24
 On the New York Front
 For Clinton and Obama
 Robin Chappelle, the New York State political director of the Clinton campaign, has tirelessly traversed the boroughs to drum up support among local elected officials. She does so with seeming ease, even though this is her first major campaign.A23 
 After hearing Barack Obama's star-making speech at the 2004 Democratic National Convention, Jordan Thomas, an actor-turned-filmmaker, created Brooklyn for Barack, a group that has become critical to drawing black or left-leaning residents to Mr. Obama's New York state campaign. A23 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-8 
 Google's Warning on Merger
 Google said that Microsoft's proposed takeover of Yahoo could pose potential threats to competition that need to be examined by policymakers.A1
 Business DigestC2 
 SPORTSMONDAYD1-10
 Giants Win Superbowl XLII
 The Giants, creating one of the greatest upsets in Super Bowl history, defeated the Patriots, 17-14.A1
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: Late and lame on warming; empty Olympic promises; partying on; Andrew Rosenthal on an Obama rally in California. 
 Columns: William Kristol and Paul Krugman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (75%); EHUD OLMERT (72%); EHUD BARAK (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHAD (94%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



120 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, Obama, Insurance

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The principal policy division between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama involves health care. It's a division that can seem technical and obscure -- and I've read many assertions that only the most wonkish care about the fine print of their proposals. 
 But as I've tried to explain in previous columns, there really is a big difference between the candidates' approaches. And new research, just released, confirms what I've been saying: the difference between the plans could well be the difference between achieving universal health coverage -- a key progressive goal -- and falling far short. 
 Specifically, new estimates say that a plan resembling Mrs. Clinton's would cover almost twice as many of those now uninsured as a plan resembling Mr. Obama's -- at only slightly higher cost.
 Let's talk about how the plans compare.
 Both plans require that private insurers offer policies to everyone, regardless of medical history. Both also allow people to buy into government-offered insurance instead. 
 And both plans seek to make insurance affordable to lower-income Americans. The Clinton plan is, however, more explicit about affordability, promising to limit insurance costs as a percentage of family income. And it also seems to include more funds for subsidies.
 But the big difference is mandates: the Clinton plan requires that everyone have insurance; the Obama plan doesn't. 
 Mr. Obama claims that people will buy insurance if it becomes affordable. Unfortunately, the evidence says otherwise.
 After all, we already have programs that make health insurance free or very cheap to many low-income Americans, without requiring that they sign up. And many of those eligible fail, for whatever reason, to enroll.
 An Obama-type plan would also face the problem of healthy people who decide to take their chances or don't sign up until they develop medical problems, thereby raising premiums for everyone else. Mr. Obama, contradicting his earlier assertions that affordability is the only bar to coverage, is now talking about penalizing those who delay signing up -- but it's not clear how this would work.
 So the Obama plan would leave more people uninsured than the Clinton plan. How big is the difference?
 To answer this question you need to make a detailed analysis of health care decisions. That's what Jonathan Gruber of M.I.T., one of America's leading health care economists, does in a new paper. 
 Mr. Gruber finds that a plan without mandates, broadly resembling the Obama plan, would cover 23 million of those currently uninsured, at a taxpayer cost of $102 billion per year. An otherwise identical plan with mandates would cover 45 million of the uninsured -- essentially everyone -- at a taxpayer cost of $124 billion. Over all, the Obama-type plan would cost $4,400 per newly insured person, the Clinton-type plan only $2,700.
 That doesn't look like a trivial difference to me. One plan achieves more or less universal coverage; the other, although it costs more than 80 percent as much, covers only about half of those currently uninsured.
 As with any economic analysis, Mr. Gruber's results are only as good as his model. But they're consistent with the results of other analyses, such as a 2003 study, commissioned by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, that compared health reform plans and found that mandates made a big difference both to success in covering the uninsured and to cost-effectiveness. 
 And that's why many health care experts like Mr. Gruber strongly support mandates.
 Now, some might argue that none of this matters, because the legislation presidents actually manage to get enacted often bears little resemblance to their campaign proposals. And there is, indeed, no guarantee that Mrs. Clinton would, if elected, be able to pass anything like her current health care plan.
 But while it's easy to see how the Clinton plan could end up being eviscerated, it's hard to see how the hole in the Obama plan can be repaired. Why? Because Mr. Obama's campaigning on the health care issue has sabotaged his own prospects. 
 You see, the Obama campaign has demonized the idea of mandates -- most recently in a scare-tactics mailer sent to voters that bears a striking resemblance to the ''Harry and Louise'' ads run by the insurance lobby in 1993, ads that helped undermine our last chance at getting universal health care. 
 If Mr. Obama gets to the White House and tries to achieve universal coverage, he'll find that it can't be done without mandates -- but if he tries to institute mandates, the enemies of reform will use his own words against him.
 If you combine the economic analysis with these political realities, here's what I think it says: If Mrs. Clinton gets the Democratic nomination, there is some chance -- nobody knows how big -- that we'll get universal health care in the next administration. If Mr. Obama gets the nomination, it just won't happen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); INSURANCE (74%); FAMILY (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



121 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Cultivating California Spirit, Eases Clinton's Grip on State

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
In the iconography of American politics, California more than anyplace is where candidates, in Mario M. Cuomo's words, ''campaign in poetry.'' Odes to the state's embrace of youth, change and possibility linger in Democratic presidential lore.
 Like Robert F. Kennedy, George McGovern and Gary Hart in races past, Senator Barack Obama has embraced that imagery in his effort to upset Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic primary here Tuesday, a prize that polls over the weekend suggested was suddenly within his reach. ''California has always represented the future in this country,'' Mr. Obama, of Illinois, said here. ''I've got a little piece of California in me.''
 Yet something more prosaic -- the reality of today's California, with its sagging economy and complex political process -- may determine whether he can win the biggest battle of Tuesday's showdown between the two remaining candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
 Aides to Mrs. Clinton, of New York, acknowledged that her lead was narrowing, but said their grip on the state's present-day mood and machinery would prevent it from vanishing altogether. 
 That is partly a function of economic anxieties reminiscent of the early 1990s, which helped Bill Clinton break the Republicans' general election hold on the nation's largest state. The prosperity that accompanied his presidency has helped Mrs. Clinton make the economy a signature issue here at a time of rising joblessness and falling real estate values.
 At the same time, the Clinton administration's assiduous cultivation of California created an enduring web of political alliances. In a campaign lasting just an eye-blink compared with the protracted prelude to last month's contests in Iowa and New Hampshire, Mrs. Clinton is drawing upon those allies to help withstand Mr. Obama's momentum.
 ''He's a better cultural fit for the state,'' said Bill Carrick, a Democratic strategist in Los Angeles who supports Mr. Obama but is not active in the campaign. ''Can the cultural dynamic overcome the political relationships? I think it's probably tough.'' 
 The idea that a Clinton presidential campaign could face serious intra-party challenge here seemed far-fetched until recently. Mr. Clinton visited the state eight times in his first year in office and barely slowed down thereafter, offering disaster relief, trade promotion and aid to ease the economic transition of California's declining military industries after the end of the cold war.
 Just like his political role model, John F. Kennedy, who brandished high-profile support from Frank Sinatra's ''Rat Pack'' and accepted the 1960 Democratic nomination in Los Angeles, Mr. Clinton cultivated Hollywood celebrities like Barbra Streisand and David Geffen.
 But Mr. Geffen signaled a crack in that support when he broke with both Clintons in early 2007, decrying their behavior and political tactics. Mr. Geffen subsequently threw a fund-raiser yielding more than $1 million for Mr. Obama that became a coming-out party for the Illinois senator, whose opposition to the Iraq war and pledge to bridge political divisions found a ready Hollywood audience. So has his mixed-race, trans-Pacific upbringing in a state of unparalleled diversity. 
 ''There's a piece of Hollywood that is fascinated by the fact that we could have the first woman president,'' said Marge Tabankin, an adviser to Ms. Streisand who formerly headed the Hollywood Women's Political Committee. ''But much of Hollywood is caught up in the aspirational side, the inspirational side of Barack Obama. They're willing to go with the dream because they think it's so transformative.''
 Yet the coastal areas of California that Hollywood symbolizes have been losing political strength, as working class whites move inland if not out of the state altogether in search of more affordable neighborhoods. Such economically anxious voters, here as in earlier primary states, represent prime targets for Mrs. Clinton's message of expanding access to health care and freezing interest rates on adjustable ''subprime'' mortgage loans for five years.
 ''They're worried about the nuts and bolts,'' said John Emerson, a Los Angeles investment executive who oversaw the courtship of California as a Clinton White House aide. And the Clintons, he adds, ''have demonstrated an ability to deliver.''
 As elsewhere, the Clinton campaign is counting on support from female voters. They form a solid majority of a Democratic electorate accustomed over the last two decades to sustaining the careers of female candidates; in addition to Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, 18 of the 34 California Democratic House members are women, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
 ''Women and establishment candidates tend to do well in statewide races,'' says Dee Dee Myers, who was Mr. Clinton's press secretary.
 California Hispanics, who have grown to become 15 percent to 20 percent of the primary vote, represent another Clinton bulwark. Mrs. Clinton's campaign is deploying supporters like Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles and the Assembly speaker, Fabian Nunez, to protect an advantage that stood at better than two to one over Mr. Obama in a recent Field Poll. 
 One challenge for both campaigns is mastering California's fast-changing election mechanics. The state has made early voting by mail so easy -- Californians can now enroll as ''permanent absentee voters'' who receive mail ballots automatically in every election -- that those who show up on Election Day could represent only half of all ballots cast.
 ''It's like learning Latin -- you have to throw out everything and start over,'' said Ace Smith, the state director for the Clinton campaign. He said those early voters were a fire wall against Mr. Obama's momentum because they are disproportionately older and female, and because mail ballots were first distributed just as Mrs. Clinton staged her comeback victory last month in New Hampshire.
 But Mr. Obama is not ceding anything to Mrs. Clinton. Aiming at her edge among working-class whites and Latinos, Mr. Obama has ramped up his emphasis on the economy. In last week's debate in Los Angeles, he reiterated his support for allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, a main issue for Hispanics.
 And in Spanish-language media advertisements, Mr. Obama trumpets his recent endorsement by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. Though memories have faded of the galvanizing appeal of Robert F. Kennedy -- assassinated in Los Angeles 40 years ago after winning the California primary -- the Kennedy name remains a political touchstone for older Hispanics. 
 Mr. Obama is also focusing on Asians, who when combined with African-Americans could match Hispanics as a proportion of the electorate. Independent voters, who favored Mr. Obama in Iowa and New Hampshire, can vote in California's Democratic primary and are projected to make up an additional 10 percent of the vote. 
 Both sides are broadcasting slightly more than $2 million worth of advertising in the final week here, substantially less than in competitive campaigns for governor or senator. Mr. Obama instead hopes his campaign's organizational efforts will be turbo-charged by endorsements from the likes of Mr. Kennedy, the California chapter of the Service Employees International Union, the Internet activist group MoveOn.org, and both The Los Angeles Times and the Spanish-language daily La Opinion.
 Voter surveys show Mr. Obama has substantially cut into Mrs. Clinton's lead, which a Field Poll six months ago pegged at 30 percentage points; over the weekend a new Field Poll showed her just 2 percentage points ahead. Even if he cannot erase it altogether, Mr. Obama's delegate trackers say they are already positioned to score a near-draw with Mrs. Clinton for the 370 pledged delegates at stake. In most of the state's 53 Congressional districts, the losing candidate will split delegates evenly with the winning candidate if he or she can keep the margin relatively close.
 Though the Democratic race is shaping up to be a protracted delegate hunt, a popular-vote victory in California would be an important symbolic prize to either candidate. By spending three days in California last week to Mr. Obama's two, Mrs. Clinton signaled that she considers it more valuable and achievable than her rival.
 ''What we've always had is an unbelievable grass-roots movement,'' said Mitchell Schwartz, Mr. Obama's campaign manager in the state. ''The goal is always to win. But I'm also realistic.''
 Mr. Villaraigosa likened the excitement surrounding Mr. Obama's campaign to his 2001 bid to become the first Latino mayor of Los Angeles in more than a century. Thousands of exuberant supporters turned out for Mr. Villaraigosa's election night rally that year, he recalled, compared with hundreds for James Hahn, his stolid rival. 
 Mr. Hahn won. ''Movements are great,'' said Mr. Villaraigosa, who reversed the outcome in their rematch four years later. ''But they don't always translate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters reached for T-shirts at an event for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at California State University, Northridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Supporters at a rally on Sunday for Senator Barack Obama in Los Angeles. Mr. Obama has been making inroads in California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POETRY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (70%); CELEBRITIES (62%); DISASTER RELIEF (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); DAVID GEFFEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



122 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1176 words

PERSON: Earl L. Butz 

HEADLINE: Earl L. Butz, Agriculture Secretary Forced Out by Comments, Dies at 98

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
Earl L. Butz, who orchestrated a major change in federal farm policy as secretary of agriculture in the 1970s but came to be remembered more for a vulgar racial comment that brought about his resignation during the 1976 presidential election race, died Saturday in Kensington, Md. Mr. Butz, who lived in West Lafayette, Ind., was 98.
 Mr. Butz's son Bill, whom he had been visiting, said his father died in his sleep. 
 Serving under President Richard M. Nixon and his successor, Gerald R. Ford, Mr. Butz was a forceful, sharp-tongued figure who promoted legislation sharply reducing federal subsidies for farmers. He was the best known secretary of agriculture since Henry A. Wallace in the Depression days, when the federal government began to pay farmers to keep some of their cropland and livestock out of production in the face of plunging income. 
 Mr. Butz maintained that a free-market policy, encouraging farmers to produce more and to sell their surplus overseas, could bring them higher prices. Farm income did rise during his time in office, in good measure the result of a huge grain shipment to the Soviet Union in 1972, but American consumers paid more for food. 
 Mr. Butz was an important source of political support in the Midwestern Farm Belt for the Nixon and Ford administrations. But he was criticized by Democrats in Congress who viewed him as the voice of ''agribusiness,'' the corporate agricultural interests, at the expense of small farmers and consumers.
 Mr. Butz said he reflected rural values learned as an Indiana farm boy, and he gave no ground to critics. When environmentalists warned against pesticides and fertilizers, he retorted, ''Before we go back to organic agriculture somebody is going to have to decide what 50 million people we are going to let starve.''
 Speaking before members of a farm credit association in Champaign, Ill., in 1973, he said that if housewives did not have ''such a low level of economic intelligence,'' they would understand that the price of everything had gone up and that ''you can't get more by paying less.''
 Seth S. King wrote in The New York Times in 1973 that Mr. Butz was ''a friendly man who often looks forbidding -- austere, primly dressed and, when the podium lights shine from below, like a shorter version of Boris Karloff.''
 He was a man with a penchant for barnyard humor who delighted in showing visitors a wood carving of two elephants mating that he kept in a cabinet behind his desk, a gift from a friend in Indiana symbolizing his quest to multiply farm votes for the Republicans.
 But his off-color comments brought accusations of bigotry and his eventual departure from Washington. Trouble first arrived in November 1974 during an informal meeting with reporters in Washington when Mr. Butz, using a mock Italian accent, criticized Pope Paul VI's opposition to using artificial birth control as a solution to world food problems. A spokesman for the Archdiocese of New York called on Mr. Butz to resign or apologize. He did offer an apology after a rebuke from President Ford.
 Mr. Ford had been counting on Mr. Butz to help win the Midwestern farm vote when he ran for a full term against Jimmy Carter in 1976, and Mr. Butz campaigned strenuously in that race. But his career in Washington suddenly ended a month before the election.
 On a plane trip after the Republican National Convention that August, accompanied by, among others, the entertainer Pat Boone and John W. Dean III, the former White House counsel, Mr. Butz made a remark in which he described blacks as ''coloreds'' who wanted only three things -- satisfying sex, loose shoes and a warm bathroom -- desires that Mr. Butz listed in obscene and scatological terms. 
 Mr. Dean reported the remark in an article he wrote in Rolling Stone magazine, attributing it to a cabinet official whom he did not identify, but New Times magazine subsequently cited Mr. Butz as the source. Prominent figures from both parties called on Mr. Butz to quit, and Mr. Ford gave him a ''severe reprimand'' for ''highly offensive'' remarks. Mr. Butz resigned within days, saying that ''the use of a bad racial commentary in no way reflects my real attitude.''
 Earl Lauer Butz was born on a farm near Albion, Ind., on July 3, 1909, and grew up guiding horse-drawn plows. He graduated from Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind., in 1932. Five years later, he received Purdue's first doctorate in agricultural economics. He was head of Purdue's agricultural economics department from 1946 to 1954.
 During the administration of Dwight D. Eisenhower, he served for three years as an assistant secretary of agriculture under Ezra Taft Benson. Returning to Purdue, he became dean of agriculture, and he unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination for governor of Indiana in 1968. He spoke frequently to businessmen and bankers and served on the boards of large agricultural corporations.
 Mr. Butz's nomination as secretary of agriculture by President Nixon in 1971 was approved in the Senate by a vote of 51 to 44, an extraordinarily close margin for a cabinet figure, his ties to agricultural big business coming under criticism. Nevertheless, he asserted himself from the outset in making farm policy.
 ''Butz's power as secretary of agriculture seemed overwhelming,'' Joel Solkoff wrote in ''The Politics of Food'' (Sierra Club Books, 1985). ''He made one decision -- to sell the Russians massive quantities of grain -- that virtually overnight transformed the basic problem of U.S. agricultural policy from what to do with the surplus to how to make up for the shortage.''
 After leaving office, Mr. Butz lectured frequently. In May 1981, while serving as dean emeritus of the School of Agriculture at Purdue, he pleaded guilty to fraudulently understating his 1978 federal taxable income by more than $148,000, representing income from his talks. He served 25 days in jail and received five years' probation.
 Mr. Butz donated $1 million in 1999 to the Department of Agricultural Economics at Purdue. The university dedicated the Butz Auditorium lecture hall in October 2004 to recognize his long service to Purdue, but it was renamed Deans of Agriculture Auditorium the following year after some students objected, citing his remarks during the 1976 presidential campaign.
 In his mid-90s, Mr. Butz still maintained an office at Purdue.
 In addition to his son Bill, he is survived by his son Tom, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. The former National Football League player Dave Butz is a nephew. Mr. Butz's wife, Mary Emma, died in 1995.
 During his first months in office, Mr. Butz anticipated at least some of the tumult he would bring to the national political scene.
 ''When President Nixon asked me to come to Washington, he told me he wanted a vigorous spokesman for agriculture,'' he told Julius Duscha in The New York Times Magazine in April 1972. ''I told him at the time I was sworn in, 'Mr. President, you may have a more vigorous spokesman than you want.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Earl Butz in October 1976. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); STARVATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PESTICIDES (73%); FERTILIZERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ORGANIC FOODS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%)

RICHARD NIXON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Nature and Environment

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008



123 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Economy Fitful, Americans Start To Pay as They Go

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For more than half a century, Americans have proved staggeringly resourceful at finding new ways to spend money.
 In the 1950s and '60s, as credit cards grew in popularity, many began dining out when the mood struck or buying new television sets on the installment plan rather than waiting for payday. By the 1980s, millions of Americans were entrusting their savings to the booming stock market, using the winnings to spend in excess of their income. Millions more exuberantly borrowed against the value of their homes.
 But now the freewheeling days of credit and risk may have run their course -- at least for a while and perhaps much longer -- as a period of involuntary thrift unfolds in many households. With the number of jobs shrinking, housing prices falling and debt levels swelling, the same nation that pioneered the no-money-down mortgage suddenly confronts an unfamiliar imperative: more Americans must live within their means.
 ''We don't use our credit cards anymore,'' said Lisa Merhaut, a professional at a telecommunications company who lives in Leesburg, Va., and whose family last year ran up credit card debt it could not handle. 
 Today, Ms. Merhaut, 44, manages her money the way her father did. Despite a household income reaching six figures, she uses cash for every purchase. ''What we have is what we have,'' Ms. Merhaut said. ''We have to rely on the money that we're bringing in.''
 The shift under way feels to some analysts like a cultural inflection point, one with huge implications for an economy driven overwhelmingly by consumer spending.
 While some experts question whether most Americans, particularly baby boomers, will ever give up their buy-now/pay-later way of life, the unraveling of the real estate market appears to have left millions of families with little choice, yanking fresh credit from their grasp.
 ''The long collapse in the United States savings rate is over,'' said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist for Lehman Brothers. ''People are going to start saving the old-fashioned way, rather than letting the stock market and rising home values do it for them.''
 In 1984, Americans were still saving more than one-tenth of their income, according to the government. A decade later, the rate was down by half. Now, the savings rate is slightly negative, suggesting that on average Americans spend more than their disposable income.
 Though the savings rate does not account for the increased value of stock and property, or the gains on retirement accounts, many economists still view it as the most useful gauge of the degree to which Americans are making provisions for the future.
 For the 34 million households who took money out of their homes over the last four years by refinancing or borrowing against their equity -- roughly one-third of the nation -- the savings rate was running at a negative 13 percent in the middle of 2006, according to Moody'sEconomy.com. That means they were borrowing heavily against their assets to finance their day-to-day lives. 
 By late last year, the savings rate for this group had improved, but just to negative 7 percent and mostly because tightened standards made loans harder to get.
 ''For them, that game is over,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. ''They have been spending well beyond their incomes, and now they are seeing the limits of credit.''
 Many times before, of course, Americans have found innovative ways to finance spending, even when austerity seemed unavoidable. It could happen again.
 The Me Decade was declared dead in the recession of the early 1980s, only to yield to the Age of Greed and later the Internet boom of the 1990s. Over the longer term, the economy should keep growing at a pace that reflects improving productivity and population gains. 
 But for the first time in decades, credit is especially tight as the bursting of the housing bubble has spread misery across the financial system. In homes now saturated with debt, conspicuous consumption and creative financing have come to seem a sign of excess not unlike that of a suntan in an age of skin cancer.
 The return to reality is on vivid display at shopping centers, where consumers used to trading up to higher-price stores are now heading to discounters. Wal-Mart and T. J. Maxx are thriving, but business has slowed at Coach, Tiffany and Williams-Sonoma.
 Not long ago, Elena Gamble would have looked at the Cadillac parked across the street from her modest home in Elk City, Okla., and felt a twinge of jealousy.
 ''We live in a small town, and everybody looks at your clothes and what you drive and where you have your hair done,'' said Ms. Gamble, who earns about $2,600 a month as a grievance counselor at a local prison. 
 Now, she and her husband -- a prison guard who brings home $2,000 a month -- are grappling with $10,000 in high-interest debt. They no longer go to the movies or out to eat, except occasionally to McDonald's. They quit their Internet service. Their car was repossessed. ''What we say now is, 'If we can't afford it, we can't buy it,' '' Ms. Gamble said.
 And when she looks across the street at that Cadillac, her envy has been replaced by pity for the neighbor on the hook.
 ''I say, 'Oh my, you're living here, and driving that? There's got to be something wrong,' '' Ms. Gamble said. '' 'You're in debt, and you're in trouble.' ''
 For decades, that envy has been a prime engine of economic growth. Debt-willing consumers hungering for the latest-generation this and the fastest that kept factories busy from Michigan to Malaysia.
 From 1980 to 2007, consumer spending swelled from 63 percent of the economy to over 70 percent, according to Economy.com, while the share of after-tax income absorbed by household debt increased from 11 percent to more than 14 percent. 
 During the technology boom of the 1990s, an extravagant mind-set took hold. In ads for the discount broker Ameritrade, a spiky-haired hipster ridiculed middle-aged professionals for settling for conventional returns.
 Even after the ''stock market as money machine'' line of thinking proved bogus, extra spending continued. The Federal Reserve cut interest rates to near record lows, banks marketed mortgages with exotically lenient terms and another fable of wealth creation took hold: the notion that housing prices could go up forever. 
 The come-ons for stocks were replaced by a new crop of advertisements. A house was no longer a mere place to live; it was a checkbook that never required a deposit. Between 2004 and 2006, Americans pulled more than $800 billion a year from their homes via sales, cash-out mortgages and home equity loans.
 ''People have come to view credit as savings,'' said Michelle Jones, a vice president at the Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Atlanta.
 Some Americans have so much wealth that they can spend enough to fuel much of the economy. The top fifth of American earners generates half of all consumer spending, noted Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital. 
 For the others, some say credit is an intrinsic part of modern life, and Americans will soon be back for more. ''A river of red ink runs through the history of the American pocketbook,'' said Lendol Calder, author of ''Financing the American Dream: A Cultural History of Consumer Credit.'' 
 ''Partly because of desire, partly because of optimism, partly because lenders have been free to invent useful borrowing tools that minimized shame and bother,'' he added, ''I think it will take a great catastrophe, greater than the Great Depression, to wean Americans from their reliance on consumer credit.''
 Credit counselors are now swamped by calls not just from people of modest means, but from professionals earning six-figure incomes, their access to finance warping their distinction between necessity and desire.
 ''The longer someone has lived on a high income, the harder it is for someone to cut back,'' said Manuel Navarro of Money Management International in San Diego. ''I ask them, 'Do you really needto have a 60-inch flat-screen TV hanging on your wall?' ''
 Fran Barbaro has an M.B.A. and a resume of computer industry jobs with salaries reaching $150,000 a year. She used to have a stock portfolio worth about $1 million. She hung original art on the walls of her three-bedroom house in Boston.
 But divorce, illness and motherhood drained her savings. Her home is worth less than she owes, and she owes another $200,000 to credit card companies, banks and tax collectors.
 Ms. Barbaro, 50, said she knew she was living beyond her means. But her house demanded work. Her two boys needed after-school programs running $25,000 a year. Medical bills multiplied. 
 ''These were simple day-to-day expenses,'' she said. ''The money was always there.''
 Until it wasn't. Her take-home pay is $5,200 a month, but her debt payments reach $4,400.
 Ms. Barbaro has rented out her house while negotiating to lower her mortgage. She has moved to an apartment, where her sons sleep in the lone bedroom while she sleeps on a pull-out sofa.
 ''It's the worst,'' Ms. Barbaro said. ''How do you salvage what you have and hopefully go back?''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Living Off the Housing Boom: American households have financed their spending in recent years by borrowing more and more against the rising equity in their homes, leading to a sharp decline in the savings rate. Those with home-equity lines of credit have led the way, but there are recent signs that the collapse of the housing boom is forcing homeowners to rein in such borrowing. (Source: Federal Reserve Board, Moody's economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (76%); FAMILY (76%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



124 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: A Corporate View of Mafia Tactics: Protesting, Lobbying and Citing Upton Sinclair

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
Smithfield Foods, which raises, kills and processes more pigs than any company on earth, does not like some of the things a union has been saying about conditions at its giant slaughterhouse in Tar Heel, N.C., where 4,650 people work and 32,000 hogs die every day.
 So Smithfield has filed a racketeering lawsuit against the union, on the theory that speaking out about labor, environmental and safety issues in order to pressure the company to unionize amounts to extortion like that used by organized crime. 
 ''It's economic warfare,'' explained G. Robert Blakey, one of Smithfield's lawyers. ''It's actually the same thing as what John Gotti used to do. What the union is saying in effect to Smithfield is, 'You've got to partner up with us to run your company.' '' 
 One hesitates to argue with Mr. Blakey, who helped write the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO, the 1970 law Smithfield is suing under, as a staff lawyer in the Senate. But what Mr. Blakey calls extortion sounds quite a bit like free speech.
 Gene Bruskin, the director of the union's organizing drive and a defendant in the suit, said his work ''bears no relationship to the Mafia whatsoever.'' 
 ''If we kidnapped the C.E.O. and we said, 'We know where your children go to school,' that's a Mafia-like act,'' Mr. Bruskin said. ''If we told the truth about how the company abuses workers to its customers, that's traditional free speech.''
 Smithfield says the union, the United Food and Commercial Workers International, and its officials violated RICO by issuing press releases, contacting civil rights and environmental groups, organizing protests and calling for boycotts.
 But the most striking assertion in the suit, one Smithfield devotes five pages to, is that the union was engaged in racketeering when it urged local governments in New York, Boston and other cities to pass resolutions condemning the company. After meeting with the union in 2006, a dozen members of the New York City Council sponsored a resolution calling for the city to stop buying meat from Smithfield's Tar Heel factory ''until the company ends all forms of abuse, intimidation and violence against its workers,'' citing a ruling by a federal appeals court in Washington that Smithfield had engaged in ''intense and widespread coercion'' in battling unionization at its Tar Heel plant.
 Councilwoman Melissa Mark-Viverito was a sponsor of the resolution, and she said she had been happy to meet with representatives of labor and business groups to hear their concerns. The practice Smithfield calls racketeering is, Ms. Mark-Viverito said, what others call lobbying. The First Amendment has a name for it, too: the right to petition the government.
 Ms. Mark-Viverito said Smithfield's lawsuit made no sense to her as a matter of logic, to say nothing of principle. But it did resonate as an exercise of corporate power. ''It's a wacky strategy,'' she said, ''that is aimed at coercing the union into backing off.'' 
 Perhaps the union should file its own RICO suit based on the company's RICO suit.
 Smithfield's lawsuit contains other nuggets. It complains, for instance, that the union interfered with its relationship with Paula Deen, ''a celebrity chef'' who has a contract to promote Smithfield products on her show on the Food Network. The union has demonstrated at Ms. Deen's public appearances. 
 In a recent court filing, Smithfield added another complaint: the union ''deprived Smithfield of an incomparable marketing opportunity'' by persuading Oprah Winfrey not to allow Ms. Deen to promote Smithfield hams on Ms. Winfrey's show.
 Smithfield's 94-page lawsuit sputters with an outrage not always grounded in a sure command of the English language. A union representative, for instance, was said to have made ''salacious statements'' at a water permit hearing by arguing that granting the permit would damage the environment.
 The suit seeks more than $17 million, an order barring the union from publishing ''reports or press releases designed to mislead the public,'' another barring demonstrations ''at Paula Deen events,'' and a third barring the union ''from participating in the drafting, encouraging, sponsorship and/or passage of public condemnations of plaintiffs by cities, townships or other organizations.''
 The courts seem receptive to this new kind of racketeering suit. Last week, Judge Robert E. Payne of Federal District Court in Richmond, Va., rejected a motion to dismiss the case, which is now scheduled for trial in October.
 Mr. Blakey said he knew of six racketeering suits against unions for so-called corporate campaigns meant to pressure companies into unionizing by drawing attention to their asserted shortcomings. Five of the suits survived motions to dismiss, he said, at which point the unions generally entered into settlements.
 ''When they settle,'' Mr. Blakey said, ''it normally breaks the campaign.''
 A century ago, Upton Sinclair educated the nation about the filth, degradation and misery that pervaded Chicago's stockyards by writing down what happened in them in ''The Jungle.''
 Sinclair figures in the Smithfield suit, too. 
 ''On or about April 20, 2007,'' the suit says, a union organizer named Jason Lefkowitz had the temerity to quote Sinclair in a critique of Ms. Deen in an online newsletter. That's right: Smithfield maintains that it is a form of racketeering to quote an American master.
 Mr. Blakey said it was perfectly appropriate to cite activities protected by the First Amendment as evidence of racketeering, and he seemed to have little sympathy for the argument that some things should be hashed out through debate rather than litigation.
 On the other hand, listen to Upton Sinclair, as quoted in the RICO suit. ''It is difficult to get a man to understand something,'' Sinclair wrote, ''when his salary depends upon his not understanding it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (91%); ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); LOBBYING (90%); EXTORTION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); PETITIONS (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (67%); CITIES (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (59%)

TICKER: SFD (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (59%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (59%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



125 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Bombings Mar Sri Lanka's 60th Anniversary of Statehood

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 

 BODY:
Sri Lanka celebrated the 60th anniversary of its independence on Monday with parades, speeches and a security clampdown. But it failed to prevent two bombings that the military said killed 13 people.
 In an effort to block such attacks here in the capital, troops sealed off many roads, and a major cellphone operator shut down its text-messaging service throughout the morning as officials and residents gathered for the national ceremony.
 President Mahinda Rajapaksa, in a televised speech, spoke angrily about the rebels, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, and said that current economic and security difficulties would be over soon. He reiterated the government's vow to crush the rebels, who seek a separate ethnic Tamil homeland in the northern and eastern parts of the country, after decades of warfare, despite an escalation of the civil war in recent months. 
 ''Terrorism is facing a defeat that it has never before faced,'' he said. Top government officials have said they hope to rout the rebels by the end of the year.
 Thousands of troops, local dancers and religious leaders paraded along Colombo's coastal road in the independence celebration.
 Hours later, a roadside bomb tore through a civilian bus in the Welioya region, about 150 miles northeast of Colombo, a military spokesman said. The attack killed 12 people and wounded 17 others, he said, blaming the rebels.
 A rebel spokesman, Rasiah Ilanthirayan, did not answer calls seeking comment. The Tamil Tigers, listed as a terrorist group by the United States and the European Union, routinely deny responsibility for such attacks.
 Another roadside bombing in the southeastern town of Buttala killed one soldier and wounded two others, the military said.
 The blasts came amid a wave of bombings focusing on civilians across the country. On Sunday, a suicide bomber blew herself up inside Colombo's main railway station, killing 11 people and wounding 92 others. A day earlier, a bomb on a bus killed 18 people, mostly Buddhist pilgrims, in the central town of Dambulla.
 The United States Embassy advised American citizens to avoid unnecessary travel in the region of the capital during the holiday, warning of possible attacks. The government also closed schools in Colombo for the week because of the security situation, said an Education Ministry official, Nimal Bandara.
 The Tamil Tigers have been fighting since 1983 for an independent homeland for minority Tamils after decades of marginalization by Sinhalese-dominated governments. More than 70,000 people have died.
 A 2002 cease-fire ushered in several years of calm and fostered hopes that peace would prevail, but the truce broke down as renewed attacks in the past two years killed 5,000 people.
 The government ousted the guerrillas from their strongholds in the east last year, and daily fighting rages along the front lines in the jungles of the north, where the rebels still control a de facto state.
 The government officially pulled out of the cease-fire last month and forced independent Nordic truce monitors to leave the country.
 Many had high hopes for the nation, formerly known as Ceylon, when it achieved independence from Britain in 1948, months after its South Asian neighbors India and Pakistan became independent.
 But the civil war undermined the country's potential to become a regional economic power, said Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, executive director of the Center for Policy Alternatives, a Colombo-based research group. ''The development potential was huge, and it has been totally stymied by this war,'' he said.
 Post-independence governments lacked the foresight to develop a national identity that would include all ethnic groups, Mr. Saravanamuttu said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students in Colombo, Sri Lanka, attended a funeral Monday for four fellow students and their baseball coach who had been among those killed in a bombing at a railway station on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANKA VIDANAGAMA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (79%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); BASEBALL (70%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (67%); RELIGION (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (91%) SRI LANKA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



126 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Saying Baseball Is in Turmoil? Don't Be So Sure

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Maybe it's a cultural thing. Maybe something is lost in the transition. 
 The steroids zealots known as the boys from WADA want to save Major League Baseball from itself. Major League Baseball, a high-ranking official of the World Anti-Doping Agency proclaims, is a sport in turmoil. That's the word he used -- turmoil. 
 ''We have experience working in sports in similar situations,'' David Howman, the WADA official, said. What sports might they be? 
 ''Cycling is one,'' Howman said. ''We've tried to help that sport.''
 Howman, director general of WADA, comes from New Zealand, so he should be forgiven his ignorance about baseball and America's long love affair with the sport. Compare baseball to cycling? Maybe that's New Zealand humor.
 When is the last time 80 million people of any nationality watched a bunch of guys race their bicycles up and down mountain roads or around a track? When did cycling ever generate $6 billion in annual revenue?
 Referring to the Mitchell report, Howman said: ''With more than seven dozen of Major League Baseball stars in there, it must be a sport in turmoil. If it ignores the report, the sport isn't answering the turmoil.''
 But where is the turmoil? Despite the Mitchell report, teams have sold more tickets this winter than any previous winter. A fifth consecutive record-breaking season attendance is on the horizon. 
 American fans may not care for cheating players, but those players haven't stained the game sufficiently to keep fans away. 
 Howman wouldn't buy that argument. 
 ''It depends on where you stick your stake in the ground about your values,'' he said in a recent telephone interview. ''There were times when people paid money to see the lions fight the Christians. That doesn't mean it was right. It doesn't mean Major League Baseball values are right just because they're making millions of dollars.''
 ''Major League Baseball can say, 'We're happy with what we're doing,' '' he added.
 ''I'm not so certain society agrees with them.''
 Howman, however, would be hard-pressed to demonstrate how American society or even some segment of society disagrees with what baseball is doing. The problem with these gentlemen is they operate in a self-deluding vacuum and don't understand the reality of American sports.
 There may be fans who didn't want to see Barry Bonds set a steroids-fueled home run record, but they will boo Bonds himself, not the entire sport of baseball. 
 There are fans who will watch Congressional games this week and the next and shake their heads at some of the developments. But if Henry A. Waxman unmasks Roger Clemens as a prevaricator, those fans will direct their criticism and their disappointment and their disillusionment not at baseball but at Clemens himself.
 They will write off Clemens and continue the countdown to the start of spring training and the start of the season. 
 Does David Howman really think Mets fans are going to turn away from baseball this year because the demon distributor of performance-enhancing drugs, Kirk Radomski, used to work in the Mets' clubhouse? Or will they embrace the Mets even more because Johan Santana is in the team's rotation?
 WADA and its domestic relative, Usada -- that is, the United States Anti-Doping Agency -- are not my favorite organizations. I have always felt that every time their officials spoke, every time they criticized baseball's steroids-testing program, their words dripped with dollar signs.
 Conflict of interest? It seemed blatant.
 But officials from the two bodies say that they are nonprofit organizations, that they aren't out to make money from baseball, that they are not in the testing business and don't seek baseball's testing business.
 ''We have no interest in dictating the testing,'' Howman said. ''We have no friend we want to see put in operation in Major League Baseball. We are not a testing agency. We don't have any commercial aspect to our job.''
 Travis Tygart, head of Usada, offered a similar disclaimer. ''We're a not-for-profit corporation,'' he said. ''We have absolutely no economic aspect. Our interest for all sports is to have the most effective antidoping plan in place. We want to see the best practices in all sports, even if they don't fall under our jurisdiction.''
 Taking them at their word, the two organizations care more about how baseball follows the recommendations in the Mitchell report than the outcome of the Clemens case. But Howman's view to the contrary, everyone else is more interested in the Clemens case.
 Chuck Knoblauch met with Congressional staffers last week, Andy Pettitte on Monday. It's Clemens's turn Tuesday.
 Clemens will say the same thing he has said publicly, his lawyer said, that Brian McNamee was lying when he told the Mitchell men that he injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hormone. 
 But like most of us, Congressional staffers and next week the congressmen themselves will have difficulty understanding why McNamee told George J. Mitchell the truth about Pettitte and Knoblauch but concocted the Clemens tale. Pettitte has acknowledged that McNamee injected him, and Knoblauch hasn't denied it.
 Given the conflicting testimony, the investigating committee will almost certainly ask the Justice Department to investigate the matter. Again contrary to Howman's view, an investigation of Clemens will command far more interest than cycling's investigations of Lance Armstrong and Floyd Landis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); CYCLING (90%); STEROIDS (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



127 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Demand Up At Factories In December

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Demand for products from factories in the United States rose in December by the largest amount in five months.
 The Commerce Department reported Monday that orders placed with factories rose 2.3 percent in December. That was an increase from the 1.7 percent gain in November and was the biggest rise since July. 
 The performance in December was better than the 2 percent rise that economists forecast.
 Still, Richard Yamarone, an economist at Argus Research, likened the December uptick to ''a candle in the hurricane.''
 Orders for durable goods -- items like cars and washing machines that are expected to last at least three years -- rose 5 percent in December, up from a 0.5 percent rise in November. But demand for nondurable goods -- including clothing, textiles and beverages -- dipped 0.4 percent in December, compared with a 3 percent rise in November.
 For all of 2007, total orders -- durable and nondurable goods -- placed with American factories went up 1.4 percent. It was the weakest performance since 2002, when the economy was struggling to recover from a recession. In 2006, factory orders rose 5.1 percent.
 Manufacturers have been hard hit by the housing bust and a struggling automotive sector. They also continue to cope with competition from overseas.
 Against that backdrop, factories eliminated 28,000 jobs in January and have cut 269,000 jobs in the last 12 months, the government reported last week.
 The economy as a whole lost 17,000 jobs in January, the first nationwide loss of jobs since August 2003.
 A more forward-looking report, released Friday, suggested manufacturing gained some ground in January.
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of factory activity rose last month to a reading of 50.7, up from 48.4 in December, which suggested that the sector had shrunk at that time. A reading above 50 indicates growth, but one below 50 is an indicator of contraction.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Factory Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart shows bar graph for OCT.-DEC. in ranges of billions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); TEXTILES (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (51%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



128 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: British Airways Is Stoking The Business-Class Rivalry

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
WHENEVER an airline executive talks about trans-Atlantic business-class flying, I jump at the opportunity to ask, How much does it cost?
 ''It really depends,'' said Woody Harford, the senior vice president for North American commercial operations of British Airways.
 That's what they all say -- and for good reason. Trans-Atlantic business-class fares, which are the industry's most profitable, already vary significantly, and they are about to become even more complicated as competition grows and demand holds up. 
 British Airways last week put down another bet on the resiliency of long-haul business class, saying it planned to start a new all-business-class route twice a day next year between London City Airport and either Kennedy or Newark airport.
 The route will be flown using Airbus A318 planes configured with 32 lie-flat business-class seats. Usually, A318s are configured for 100 to 110 passengers, mostly in coach. 
 Two other things struck me as remarkable about the plan by British Airways, which already flies eight times a day between Kennedy and London Heathrow and three times a day between Newark and Heathrow.
 One is the location: London City Airport. London City, which does not now have trans-Atlantic service, is six miles from the financial district and three miles from Canary Wharf, both home to rapidly growing international businesses.
 Two is the audacity of the initial pricing. In recent years, three start-up all-business-class carriers -- Eos and Silverjet (along with MaxJet, which is now defunct) -- began offering New York-to-London business-class fares that were considerably lower than the major carriers. According to Mr. Harford, the new British Airways business-class service will charge the same as its existing business-class service, known as Club World, between New York and Heathrow.
 ''You can assume it's going to be within the absolutely same neighborhood,'' he said. 
 On the other hand, as several competitors pointed out, little London City Airport has strict take-off weight limits. So the westbound flights of the new service will need to make what a British Airways spokesman conceded will be a ''quick 40-minute gas-and-go stop'' for a full load of fuel at an airport in western Britain or Ireland before proceeding across the Atlantic.
 Back to the fares. If you plan to fly between New York and London on short notice, the business-class walk-up fares are bracing. On British Airways, if you booked Monday to fly to Heathrow on Wednesday and return Saturday, you would pay $10,658.37. On American Airlines, the fare for the same dates is $8,611.40 -- in the same ballpark as the fare charged by Eos. American flies six times a day between New York and Heathrow, but started a new route with competitive fares to Stansted last year in response to Eos and MaxJet.
 On Silverjet, which flies between Newark and the farther-out London Luton Airport, the fare is $3,260.
 Some high-volume companies negotiate discounts of 40 percent or more. For others, buying a ticket well in advance brings the fare down considerably. 
 British Airways, which is counting on its brand recognition as it takes on smaller rivals, also plans to start a separate small all-business-class airline called OpenSkies in the spring, flying between New York and cities in Europe other than London. Last week, British Airways reported a 28.5 percent jump in operating profit for the last nine months, ''mainly due to more premium passengers traveling.''
 The intensifying free-for-all in business-class cabins over the Atlantic is likely to rattle the foundations of the existing fares this year as competition grows, Mr. Harford said.
 The kind of intense yield-management that slices and dices coach cabins into a wide range of fares, depending on projected demand, will come to the business-class cabins across the Atlantic, he predicted. ''As you get more competition and more options, as more advance-purchase opportunities creep in, a lot of the complexities of the fares in the economy cabins is creeping into the business cabin,'' he said. ''I think what you'll see over the next few months is a lot more pricing options available.''
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); SILVERJET PLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



129 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: On the West Coast, a Distinguished Company Avoids Showing Any Gray

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
For most ballet companies that survive past their first 50 years, some degree of artistic recession proves inevitable. With San Francisco Ballet alone, the third quarter-century has brought a higher artistic eminence than before. 
 The company, celebrating its 75th anniversary this season, was founded in 1933. Helgi Tomasson became its artistic director in 1985; especially in the last 15 years, the troupe has become recognized as one of the world's leading exponents of Balanchine style and repertory while presenting a series of commissioned new ballets by world-class choreographers and making successful visits to prestigious European opera houses and festivals. 
 Though the ballets Mr. Tomasson choreographs himself tend to be prettily forgettable, they usually have the virtue of making his dancers looks like focused, multidimensional classical stylists. And though he takes dancers from all around the world, he has given them a shared understanding of style fully as subtle as that of some European companies that employ only dancers from their own nations. 
 The nine repertory programs now being presented will reach a climax in the company's New Works Festival in April and May, when an astonishing 10 world premieres -- by choreographers no less than Paul Taylor, Mark Morris and Christopher Wheeldon, among others -- will open on three consecutive nights (April 22 to 24), a quantity that has been matched or surpassed only by New York City Ballet and effectively bids to rival that company's Diamond Projects of new choreography. (Most ballet companies are doing well if they can present four new ballets a year.) 
 San Francisco's first two 2008 programs last week placed the company centrally as an inheritor of the traditions of 75 years of American ballet, including works created for Ballet Caravan, City Ballet and American Ballet Theater. The scores were by Bach (Mr. Tomasson's ''7 for Eight''), Mozart (Balanchine's ''Divertimento No. 15''), Tchaikovsky (the same choreographer's ''Diamonds''), Stravinsky (Yuri Possokhov's ''Firebird'') and Virgil Thomson (Lew Christensen's ''Filling Station'' and Mr. Morris's ''Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes''). When did anyone last see two Thomson ballets on consecutive nights?
 Natal'ya Feygina's playing of the piano pieces in ''Drink to Me'' was occasionally tentative, but Martin West's conducting of the five orchestral scores was always good, with a balance between strings and horns in the Mozart that beautifully demonstrated this score's ravishing sonorities (soured only by ill-tuned violin playing in its cadenzas). 
 Some factors are now holding back San Francisco Ballet from greatness. Female style here has not reached the peaks of refinement that male style has; to compare and contrast the company's various leading and rising male dancers was a richer experience than the same exercise proved with its women. And at least three of these six ballets were poorly lighted, with too little illumination reaching the dancers from the front, and too much from above and, especially, the sides. 
 If Mr. Tomasson thinks a certain Stygian gloom is proper to ''7 for Eight,'' that is his privilege as its choreographer. But ''Divertimento No. 15'' is not helped by leaving the women's faces occasionally in near shadow (even in the opening tableau). We should not be seeing shadows between the women's shoulder blades in the opening waltz in ''Diamonds'' (which suffered more), and both dances relied excessively on spotlights. Great lighting (which need not be slavishly faithful to some bygone scheme) matters more to choreography than designs.
 Even so, ''Divertimento,'' which has no fewer than five ballerina roles and a corps of eight women, was the richest event of these two programs, followed by ''Drink to Me.'' Each was double-cast; I was happy to see three performances of each. Several dancers -- Elana Altman, Vanessa Zahorian, Frances Chung, Sarah Van Patten, Elizabeth Miner, Katita Waldo, Nicolas Blanc and Gennadi Nedvigin (who looks as if he may be the company's finest stylist of all, especially in the ''Drink'' role created in 1988 for Mikhail Baryshnikov) -- appeared in both, all to real advantage. Tina LeBlanc (especially) and Kristin Long both shone in the lead role of ''Divertimento.'' 
 In my experience ''Divertimento No. 15'' reached a peak at City Ballet from 1980 to 1985; these San Francisco performances, despite a few smudges here and there, were the brightest and best I have seen since then. This was dancing that sang with irresistible rhythmic brio. A transfer of weight from two feet to one became delicious; a change of body angle became juicy. Similar qualities shone in ''Drink to Me,'' especially in the male roles. (Mr. Morris makes entrancing contrasts by giving his men fiddly little footwork and then big but arrestingly precise jumps.)
 ''Filling Station,'' a 1938 piece of Americana seldom seen today, proves to be the masterpiece of the artist Paul Cadmus, whose choices of costume color and imaginative decor surpass anything in his paintings. The choreographer Lew Christensen, following Lincoln Kirstein's scenario, made a nice little comedy that leaves traces of fantasy in the mind. He originally gave himself the Puckish/heroic leading role of Mac, the filling station attendant; today Rory Hohenstein plays the role with touching strength and sweetness. 
 In Mr. Tomasson's ''7 for Eight'' (2004), so named because it fields eight dancers in seven separate pieces of Bach music, Joan Boada created as much texture as the lighting would permit, as did Nutnaree Pipit-Suksun, Ms. LeBlanc, Mr. Nedvigin and others. Another home-commissioned ballet was Mr. Possokhov's ''Firebird'' (2007), a sentimental pop reduction of the traditional scenario, with major cuts even to Stravinsky's 1945 suite version of the score and a ballerina role that is considerably simpler in both steps and characterization than either Michel Fokine's 1910 original or Balanchine's 1949 version. A harmless and easily entertaining piece, this does nothing to reward a second viewing. 
 I have reservations about ''Diamonds'' that might have been done away with by better lighting and a different ballerina. (And why does Susan Tuohy's decor consist of pearl pendants?) Though Yuan Yuan Tan, regarded by many as the company's prima and its first-cast Firebird, brings fine articulation to certain details of this great role, which was created for Suzanne Farrell, the ballet might have been renamed ''Sugar.'' Ms. Tan, on the music but never in it, gave a mild, dainty, sweet account of a role that surely needs spaciousness, grandeur, glamour, cool. The rest of the company's dancing, though likable, lacked ebullience. 
 Though ''Diamonds'' is often regarded as the thinnest of the three pieces in Balanchine's 1967 ''Jewels,'' it has more choreography than most choreographers' masterpieces do and can often win an ovation greater than it elicited on Friday. Other casts will follow, though. By missing them, I feel I am missing a story of consequence that extends far beyond California. 
 The San Francisco Ballet's season, including its New Works Festival, continues through May 6 at the War Memorial Opera House; (415) 865-2000 or sfballet.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the San Francisco Ballet performing Mark Morris's ''Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes,'' part of the company's second program for 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK TOMASSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (92%); DANCERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (84%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); THEATER (76%); FESTIVALS (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) WEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



130 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; JOHN MCCAIN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: In His Own Words

 BODY:
In Boston: 
 ''As president of the United States, I will preserve my proud conservative Republican credentials, but I will reach across the aisle to the Democrats and work together for the good of the country. ... 
 My friends, we've got some real challenges. You saw the jobs report last week. You saw that our economy continues to have blows after blow. And you know about a lot of the problems with housing in America. And you know about the uncertainty on Wall Street. 
 And, my friends, I have specific proposals to address our economic challenges. We will be coming out with more specific proposals, and they will be based not on big-government intervention, and not on raising your taxes, not on increasing government regulation but unleashing the forces of the free market and capitalism. And we will restore this economy because the fundamentals are strong of our economy. And we can get through this. We can get through it. The first thing we have to do is pass the stimulus package through the Senate, don't load it up with a bunch of pork barrel projects, have the president sign it, and let's start moving forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



131 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Principles of Fair Lending

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Reinforcing the regulatory apparatus of the nation's economy that has collapsed under this administration is indeed one of the most important challenges facing us today (''After the Fed,'' editorial, Jan. 31). 
 What won't work is the typical patchwork approach to reform predatory lending. If Congress and presidential candidates want to truly make a difference for borrowers, they need a comprehensive approach to regulation. 
 A set of principles of fair lending, agreed to by Americans for Fairness in Lending, a coalition of national consumer groups, should be followed: responsibility, justice, equality, information, accountability, law and enforcement.
 Every Democratic candidate for president in this election year has endorsed these six principles. We are still waiting to hear from the Republican candidates. 
 Meanwhile foreclosures continue, credit card balances climb higher, and more workers take out high-interest payday loans to try and make ends meet. 
 A return to reasonable regulation is long overdue. 
 Jim Campen Executive Director, Americans for Fairness in Lending Boston, Jan. 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAIR LENDING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); FORECLOSURE (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



132 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Reid Tries to Pressure G.O.P. for $159 Billion Stimulus Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats tried to pressure Republicans on Monday to vote for a $159 billion economic stimulus plan, including $1 billion in additional subsidies for home energy, instead of a cheaper, more streamlined package approved by the House last week. 
 The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said that if the bill failed, he might allow a vote just on the original House plan. That proposal does not include changes favored by both parties to extend tax rebates or other payments to more than 20 million Americans receiving Social Security and to 250,000 disabled veterans. 
 Mr. Reid seemed to drop a plan that he and other Democratic leaders laid out last week, when they said they would seek a series of votes on the rival packages, with the last one on the House bill with the desired changes.
 The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, reacted furiously. He said he would delay a vote that Mr. Reid wanted to hold on Tuesday on a permanent extension of the Bush administration's terrorist surveillance program, thereby delaying the stimulus vote, which had been expected on Wednesday. 
 The surveillance program is unpopular with many Democrats and the primary elections on Tuesday give Mr. Reid a chance to pass the legislation with reduced public attention. 
 As Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell traded recriminations on the Senate floor, a testy debate erupted among several senators, including Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, and Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California. 
 Mr. Kyl accused the Democrats of trying to force the Republicans' vote without letting them read the latest bill. Mr. Reid accused Republican leaders of stalling out of fear of losing the vote. 
 The rancor in the Senate was a striking contrast with the bipartisan cooperation in the House, where Democrats, Republicans and the Bush administration quickly hashed out a stimulus deal. 
 Both the Senate and House plans include tax rebates or payments for individuals and tax incentives for businesses, all aimed at an increase in spending to help jolt the slowing economy. 
 The Senate plan would cost about $204 billion over two years, $40 billion more than the House plan. Senate Democrats said it included needed additions, including $10 billion to extend unemployment benefits. 
 An aide to Mr. Reid said worsening employment numbers released last week had convinced him that the bigger package was needed. 
 Republicans said some of the larger cost was for extraneous proposals, including more than $200 million in tax incentives for the coal industry sought by Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (79%); JON KYL (59%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); BARBARA BOXER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



133 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Issues Start Rush to Citizenship by Hispanics

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Spurred by the widespread crackdown on illegal immigration and by the contentious tone of the national immigration debate, Latinos are gearing up for Tuesday's voting with an eye toward making Hispanics a decisive voting bloc nationwide in November. 
 After decades of relatively low Hispanic electoral participation, last year more than a million legal Latino immigrants applied to become citizens, with many saying they had done so to be able to vote. Since then, newly naturalized Hispanic-Americans and citizens since birth have turned out at voter registration fairs and political discussion groups, and pressed relatives to register. 
 Last week's primary in Florida, the first state with a big Hispanic population to vote, gave a demonstration of their potential clout. Hispanic voters, who were 12 percent of those voting -- a strong turnout for a primary -- handed the decisive edge in the Republican contest to Senator John McCain of Arizona over Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, according to exit polls by Edison/Mitofsky. 
 The two candidates were essentially even among white voters, with 33 percent for Mr. McCain and 34 percent for Mr. Romney. But Latino voters, including Cuban-Americans and others, favored Mr. McCain by 54 percent to 14 percent for Mr. Romney. (Mr. McCain is known among Latinos for backing an immigration bill offering legal status to illegal immigrants that was defeated last year by conservatives from his party.)
 On the Democratic side, Hispanics also contributed to the 16-point victory in Florida of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York over Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, with 59 percent of Latinos voting for her and 30 percent voting for him. 
 Hispanics regard voting this year as a strategy of self-defense, said Sergio Bendixen, a pollster based in Miami. For many of them, Mr. Bendixen said, ''the immigration debate has not been about immigration policy; it has been about whether Hispanics belong in America.'' 
 Hispanics ''feel they need to vote to show they are a group that cannot be abused or discriminated against,'' said Mr. Bendixen, who surveys Hispanics for the Clinton campaign. 
 On Tuesday, 24 states that include nearly 60 percent of the nation's Hispanic electorate will be voting in primaries or caucuses. Voting that day will be 7 of the 10 states with the highest percentages of Hispanics among their voters, including New Mexico, where Hispanics constitute more than one-third of the electorate (Democrats will caucus there); California, where they are about 23 percent; and Arizona, where they are about 17 percent. 
 The electoral energy has been channeled by a voter registration campaign that has built new links between local Hispanic organizations and major Spanish-language media, led by Univision, the national television network.
 Both Republican and Democratic strategists say that strong immigration enforcement and tough talk against illegal immigration by the Republican candidates, with the exception of Mr. McCain, have antagonized Hispanics in general. 
 ''The hard-line rhetoric on immigration is turning off all Latinos,'' said Lionel Sosa, a Republican advertising executive in San Antonio who handled Hispanic outreach in the presidential campaigns of Ronald Reagan and both President Bushes. ''When people talk about building a wall and sending those Mexicans back, it comes off as anti-Latino. We say: 'You're talking about my family, and I don't like it.' '' 
 One newly energized and mobilized Hispanic voter is Silvia Benitez, 45, who was born in Mexico but has been living in Arizona for more than a decade. A community outreach worker in a federal preschool program in Phoenix, Mrs. Benitez sat on the sidelines in the elections of 2004 and 2006 as a legal immigrant. 
 This election, she said, will be different. Among several recent immigration measures Arizona adopted were the nation's toughest sanctions against employers who hire unauthorized workers, which took effect Jan. 1. 
 ''We don't feel safe as a community,'' Mrs. Benitez said. ''Some people judge you now because of how you appear, your skin color, your English accent.'' 
 Frustrated that President Bush, in her estimation, had failed to push through a bill to give illegal immigrants a path to become legal, Mrs. Benitez applied for citizenship last year and took her oath as an American in October. 
 With her measured voice and folded hands, Mrs. Benitez does not look like a firebrand. But she is talking like one. ''It is about time for us to take action and make a big movement of political change for Latinos,'' she said. 
 Another Phoenix resident, Silvia Trinidad, 20, is among a fast-growing group of young Hispanics who have recently reached the voting age of 18. A legal Mexican immigrant since she was a child, Ms. Trinidad is studying criminal justice in college and working for the county sheriff as a detention officer, hoping to become a police officer. She signed up last fall to become a citizen. 
 ''Every vote counts,'' Ms. Trinidad said, ''and I will be able to vote against the laws they are trying to make now against the immigrants.''
 Ricardo Tavizon, 29, a recently naturalized citizen who sells used cars in South Phoenix, said he wanted to vote to challenge immigration enforcement and to represent other immigrants who are not citizens. 
 Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service Employees International Union, said he was surprised by the response to the voter registration campaign, called Ya Es Hora, Ve y Vota or ''Now is the time, go and vote.'' . 
 ''In 42 years of organizing, I've never seen this level of interest in an election,'' said Mr. Medina, whose union is part of the drive. 
 After helping hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants apply for citizenship last year, the campaign now aims to persuade six million unregistered Hispanics to sign up to vote by November, he said. An estimated 18.2 million Hispanics are eligible to vote. 
 That goal is plausible, Hispanic leaders said, because of the coordination between community groups, and the newspapers of ImpreMedia, which include El Diario La Prensa of New York, and Univision. The television network is running five public service advertisements about the registration drive, while the newspapers print guides to voter registration. The campaign includes major groups like the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, a bipartisan organization, and the National Council of La Raza. 
 Hispanic voters may cast deciding votes again on Tuesday. Nationwide, Senator Obama has pulled to a tie with Senator Clinton, at 41 percent each, according to a CBS News poll released Sunday. In Arizona, Mr. Obama is ahead among Latinos, by 53 percent to 37 percent for Mrs. Clinton, according to a poll by Mason-Dixon for McClatchy/MSNBC. But in California, where Hispanics make up nearly one-fourth of Democratic voters, Mrs. Clinton has a lead of 52 percent to 19 percent for Mr. Obama, a Field poll conducted from Jan. 25 to Feb. 1 found. 
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama support giving legal status to illegal immigrants. But she has far stronger name recognition among Hispanic voters, polls show. 
 In the Republican races, Mr. McCain holds a wide margin of support among Hispanics over Mr. Romney, who promised tougher action against illegal immigrants. But Mr. McCain may pay for his Hispanic support by losing ground with conservatives. On Monday, Roy Beck, the president of NumbersUSA, one of the biggest groups battling illegal immigration, sent out an e-mail alert that he said went to 1.5 million supporters, urging them to vote against Mr. McCain.
 Based on recent trends, a surge in Hispanic voter registration would strongly favor the Democratic Party in November, since 57 percent of registered Hispanics identify themselves as Democrats while 23 percent align with the Republicans, according to a study in December by the Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington research group. While immigration is a litmus-test issue for many Latinos, it is not their only concern. Polls show that the war in Iraq, the economy and education are also on their minds.
 With the voter registration drive just starting, its full force will not be felt until November. But Hispanic leaders' goals are clear. 
 ''It is not inconceivable,'' said Cesar Conde, executive vice-president of Univision, ''that Hispanics will have the key role in electing the next president of the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Silvia Trinidad will ''vote against the laws they are trying to make now against the immigrants.''
Ricardo Tavizon said he wanted to represent other immigrants who have not become citizens.
Silvia Benitez took her oath as an American in October. She will vote for the first time on Tuesday in Arizona's primary.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: A Growing Group: The 24 states holding primaries and caucuses today have nearly 60 percent of the nation's Hispanic electorate. Since 2000, the number of Hispanics eligible to vote in the U.S. has grown from about 14 million to 18 million.
 PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS ELIGIBLE TO VOTE WHO ARE HISPANIC IN EACH STATE. (Source: Pew THE NEW YORK TIMES Hispanic Center) Chart shows bar graph for percentages in each state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CITIZENSHIP (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); GOVERNORS (73%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



134 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 626 words

 BODY:
IT'S PAY AS YOU GO NOW First, there were credit cards, then investing in the stock market. Finally, people borrowed against the rising value of their homes. But now, in a tight credit market, many Americans must live within their means. 
 BUSH SUBMITS BUDGET President Bush has proposed a record federal budget of $3.1 trillion that contained few surprises, saying it would keep the United States safe and prosperous and let Americans keep as much of their own money as possible.[A20.] 
 Mr. Bush's budget proposal illustrates a fundamental truth: the next president faces difficult choices, whether he or she is a Republican or Democrat. News analysis. [A20.] 
 A RISK-TAKING CULTURE At Societe Generale, risk-taking by traders was part of the corporate culture, dating back to a small team of highly trained and highly regarded engineers and mathematicians who started derivatives trades in the 1980s -- a group known as ''les moines-soldats,'' or soldier monks. [C1.] 
 ROLE REVERSAL When Google made a $3.1 billion bid for DoubleClick last year, Microsoft played a role in delaying the deal. Now it looks like payback time may be here for Microsoft. [C1.] 
 JITTERS IN EUROPE Until now, Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank has seemed strong and confident in denying the need for interest rate cuts. But some fear he may be reducing the bank's flexibility. [C1.] 
 UTILITIES TURN TO NATURAL GAS American utilities are turning to natural gas to meet anticipated growth in demand, which could increase the cost of that fuel. [C1.] 
 AMGEN DEFENDS SALE The chief executive of Amgen said the company's decision to sell Japanese distribution rights to many of the drugs it has in development was more than a response to financial pressures brought on by falling sales of its flagship anemia drugs. Kevin W. Sharer, the chief executive, cited the high costs of research and development. [C4.]
 BEAR HUGS Microsoft's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, recently gave Yahoo a bear hug, saying in a letter that they would make excellent partners. But it wasn't a love letter. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.] 
 SEEING ADS AFTER THE GAME The Internet and digital video recorders, mobile devices and other technologies are giving a postgame presence to the commercials that appeared this year during the telecast of the Super Bowl. One Web site likely to be visited is at mytalkingstain.com for the Tide to Go stain remover. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]
 BATTLING OVER UNIONS Smithfield Foods has filed a racketeering lawsuit against a union, accusing it of extortion in its effort to unionize. But what some say is extortion sounds a bit like free speech. Sidebar: Adam Liptak. [A14.]
 BOSTON SCIENTIFIC PROFIT RISES With a lift from the declining dollar and strong sales in some units, Boston Scientific announced better-than-expected financial results. [C2.] 
 FACTORY ORDERS ROSE Demand for products from factories in the United States rose in December by the largest amount in five months, the Commerce Department reported, but one analyst called the increase ''a candle in a hurricane.'' [C2.] 
 Wall Street closed sharply lower as investors took profits from the market's best week in five years. [C10.]
 QUESTIONS ABOUT SEA CABLES Four undersea communications cables have been cut in the last week, raising questions about the safety of the network that handles most of the world's Internet and telephone traffic. [C5.]
 SLEEPING AT A LANDMARK Historic hotels are making a comeback, and some business travelers who can afford it are increasingly treating them as destination hotels. [C6.] 
 BUSINESS-CLASS COMPLEXITY Trans-Atlantic business-class fares are about to get more complicated. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES FIGURES (87%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); CORPORATE CULTURE (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (63%); LITIGATION (63%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); ANEMIA (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); GOOGLE INC (55%); DOUBLECLICK INC (55%); AMGEN INC (53%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (50%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (53%); BSX (NYSE) (50%); SFD (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (50%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (50%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (50%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KEVIN W SHARER (57%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



135 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Marches Show Disgust With a Colombian Rebel Group

BYLINE: By JENNY CAROLINA GONZALEZ and SIMON ROMERO; Jenny Carolina Gonzalez reported from Bogota, and Simon Romero from Caracas, Venezuela. Andrea Zarate contributed reporting from Lima, Peru, and Angelica Medaglia from New York.

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia 

 BODY:
Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators marched here and in other cities around Colombia on Monday to protest the abductions and killings carried out by the country's largest rebel group. 
 The marches, which also took place on a smaller scale in cities from New York to Tokyo, were a vivid display of growing outrage against the rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as the FARC. Demonstrators also criticized President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela for his plea to remove the FARC from lists of terrorist groups. 
 ''The FARC made themselves into criminals a long time ago,'' said Martin Orozco, 32, a surgeon who marched to the Plaza Bolivar downtown here to voice chants like ''No more FARC!'' and ''We want peace and liberation!'' 
 ''We are simply tired of this,'' he said. 
 Until several months ago, such a mass gathering against the FARC would have been improbable in this country. Large cities like Bogota and Medellin had been largely pacified in recent years, with war still raging in parts of the countryside, and the FARC and other guerrilla groups had become less of a pressing concern as the economy boomed. 
 But then 11 lawmakers held by the FARC were shot to death in a jungle camp last June. And Mr. Chavez's efforts to win the release of dozens of other hostages held by the FARC changed things. President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia withdrew his support for Mr. Chavez's mediating role last November, setting off a political dispute that has intensified in recent weeks. 
 The FARC released just two high-profile hostages last month and was found to be lying about the whereabouts of a 3-year-old boy born in captivity, who was discovered living in foster care here and not in jungle camps. Shortly after the hostages' release, Mr. Chavez called on the FARC to be seen as a ''real army'' and not as terrorists. 
 That assessment did not sit well with many Colombians already upset with delays in releasing hostages. A group venting its rage at the FARC on Facebook, an Internet social-networking site, had formed in early January before Mr. Chavez's comments. It organized Monday's marches, gaining the support of Mr. Uribe's government. 
 ''The Colombian people were lethargic, with an almost cynical indifference to the problems of violence,'' said Oscar Montes, 33, a civil engineer in Barranquilla who helped organize the marches on Facebook. 
 ''At this time the FARC can say whatever they want,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''But they will not have legitimacy.'' 
 The FARC said over the weekend that it would hand over three more hostages to Mr. Chavez, citing the deteriorating health of the captives, former lawmakers who have been held for more than five years. No date was set.
 The FARC lashed out at the marches and at Mr. Uribe in a statement on Monday, claiming that ''inhuman intransigence'' on his part had blocked efforts to achieve a prisoner exchange. 
 The Marxist-inspired FARC continues to hold more than 40 political hostages, including Ingrid Betancourt, a former presidential candidate, and three American military contractors captured when their plane crash-landed in the jungle in 2003. The guerrillas are also accused of holding 700 captives for ransom.
 Support for the marches was not unanimous in Colombia. Relatives of some of the FARC's captives contended that they lowered chances for a release. 
 The FARC, one of the main actors in Colombia's long internal war, finances itself through kidnapping and cocaine trafficking. A smaller rebel group, the National Liberation Army, also carries out abductions for profit, largely along the long border with Venezuela. 
 Private militias, which battled both guerrilla groups for much of the 1990s and well into this decade, have largely disbanded. But many of the combatants in the militias, which carried out their own kidnappings and massacres, have resurfaced in Mafia-like groups that profit from drug trafficking and extortion. 
 Mr. Chavez's role in mediating Colombia's conflict has come under increasing scrutiny here. At the march on Monday, people chanted, ''Chavez guerrilla, the people are offended!'' 
 Anti-FARC marches took place in Venezuela and other countries throughout the Americas affected by the war. In Lima, Peru, more than 800 people gathered in front of Congress. 
 One of the most poignant expressions against the FARC could be seen outside the United Nations headquarters in New York, where hundreds of demonstrators gathered. Salvador Zapata, 37, a restaurant worker in Edgewater, N.J., held his thoughts high above his head, written on a bright blue poster. 
 ''FARC stop this dirty and fractious war against the people,'' read one line of his comments. 
 ''They say that they represent the people,'' said Mr. Zapata, who is from Caldas, Colombia. ''This is a lie.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Relatives of people kidnapped by the FARC attended a church service in Bogota. Some relatives were opposed to the marches. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Demonstrators in Bogota, Colombia, on Monday protested the tactics of the FARC, the country's largest rebel group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FERNANDO VERGARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (92%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); ALVARO URIBE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) COLOMBIA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



136 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: As 24 States Vote, a Grab for Delegates, and an Edge

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Brace yourself.
 Forty-three presidential nominating contests in 24 states. Channel upon channel of the commentators talking about exit polls. The biggest prize of the night -- California -- being decided well after most viewers have headed for bed. A total of 3,156 delegates allocated under arcane rules on what could be the most significant night of the 2008 campaign to date.
 This is a guide of things to look for on Tuesday night-- key states, trends, interesting demographic developments, campaign-ending or campaign-extending developments -- starting from when the first polls close (Georgia at 7 p.m.) to when the voting is completed in California at 11 p.m. Eastern time. 
 The Big Picture 
 There are two ways to approach the results. The first is old-fashioned: which candidates rack up the most states. But this is about more than popular vote totals; the point of these contests is to allocate delegates to the national conventions.
 Thus, the big question is how much attention to pay to the results map on television -- lighted up with, say, states that have swung to Senator John McCain's column -- and how much attention to pay to the delegate counter. The answer is pay attention to both, though put somewhat more focus on states for the Republicans and put somewhat more on delegates for the Democrats. The delegate count might matter more officially, but the state results could count more politically, and that will be the central tension of the night.
 Democrats allocate most of their delegates proportionately; candidates are awarded a cut of the delegate pie based on their percentage of the vote. It is possible to lose a state and still get a majority of the delegates, and it is likely that the losing candidate will still get a substantial share of the delegates. 
 Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton will no doubt start claiming state victories as soon they can -- with the goal of trying to get on television and grab the front-runner spotlight -- but those results will probably remain largely symbolic. Assuming the race remains close, what matters going forward is who gets the most pledged delegates.
 The Republicans' delegate selection rules are different. In 8 of the 21 Republican contests, the winner gets the delegates -- no dividing up the spoils. What that means is that it is going to be easy for a candidate to build up a big delegate lead on Tuesday night and, combined with winning some big states, credibly declare himself the party's presumptive nominee. That is precisely what Mr. McCain is looking to do.
 Keep in mind that the winner of the states is probably going to become known well before the delegate counts are finished, and that is going to color the way the results are reported on television and in newspapers. The outcome in California, a major factor in either way of judging the night, is not going to be known until the wee hours. 
 ''Don't be rushed into making an early judgment without California,'' said Robert Shrum, a Democratic political analyst. ''You have to resist the pre-California spin unless someone is winning like 16 of the 22 states.''
 The States
 For Republicans, two states could end up determining whether the race goes on from here: California and Massachusetts, and this has nothing to do with delegates. Mitt Romney headed out to California on a last-minute trip on Monday, drawn by polls suggesting the race was narrowing, despite Mr. McCain's collection of high-profile endorsements like Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. If Mr. Romney pulls out a win in the nation's largest state, no matter what happens anyplace else, he is unlikely to leave the stage soon.
 By contrast, Mr. McCain -- in a poke-in-the-eye moment -- campaigned in Massachusetts, Mr. Romney's home state. Should Mr. McCain win in Massachusetts and hold on to California, that would probably be the lights-out moment at the Romney headquarters. No wonder that Mr. McCain sneaked a last-minute trip to California onto his schedule for Tuesday morning.
 For Democrats, watch California, Massachusetts, New York, Missouri, Arizona and New Mexico. If Mr. Obama wins California, that is a real momentum blocker for Mrs. Clinton: There are few states in the country that are more identified with the Clinton presidency than this one. But Mr. Obama has suffered one of those external political problems that often madden campaigns: a last-minute California poll that showed him closing in on Mrs. Clinton -- in the process, raising expectations that he will win. No wonder Mr. Obama's advisers are suddenly talking about the big surge of early voting in California before Mr. Obama began to break through there.
 If Mr. Obama wins Massachusetts, that will be testimony to the power of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, and a real sting for Mrs. Clinton, who once thought she had a comfortable lead there. If Mr. Obama comes close in New York, or in neighboring New Jersey, watch for a tough round of questions about Mrs. Clinton's electability.
 Finally, think of Missouri, Arizona and New Mexico as the swing states in this contest: Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton are pretty evenly matched there. Missouri is a swing state in the general election, and might be one in this one as well.
 The Voting Groups
 Mr. Obama has been trying -- with the use of surrogates like Oprah Winfrey -- to cut into the advantage Mrs. Clinton enjoys among women.
 The vote should also offer a test of whether Mr. Obama has succeeded in cementing what has appeared to be an exodus of African-American voters from the Clinton camp to Mr. Obama's, as began happening in South Carolina two weeks ago. Georgia, with an electorate with a heavy African-American representation, and New York should offer a good and relatively early measure of that.
 And whether or not Mr. Obama wins Alabama, that would be a good state to look and see if he can win Southern white voters. 
 And the final big question for Democrats: Will Mrs. Clinton maintain the edge among Latino voters that she showed in Florida and Nevada? New York and California should offer an interesting test, as well as of whether blacks and Latinos, uneasy political allies in many circumstances, break for different candidates. 
 The extent to which Republicans are coalescing around Mr. McCain, of Arizona, will be measured by how well he does in contests open only to members of his party, depriving him of the support of independents, who helped him so much in New Hampshire, where they could vote in party primaries. Again, California is the place to watch. To judge his potential strength as a general election nominee, watch to see if conservatives put aside their qualms about him and vote for him. 
 Among Mr. McCain's Republican rivals, one key is evangelical voters. Mr. Romney is not going to be very happy should they continue to rally behind the campaign of Mike Huckabee, the former Baptist minister. 
 The Issues
 With the economy having emerged in the last few months as the dominant issue, and with the race moving to a national stage, one development to watch is whether Republican voters will continue to focus as much on a subject that has divided their party, illegal immigration. The answer could be of particular importance to Mr. McCain, who was unable to compete in Iowa in part because many Republicans there saw him as too soft on the issue. 
 On the Democratic side, Mr. Obama has again started criticizing Mrs. Clinton for voting to authorize the war in Iraq. After her apparent success earlier in this campaign in putting the war vote behind her among Democratic voters, it would be problematic for her now to be forced back on the defensive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WORCESTER, MASS.: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at Clark University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BOSTON: Senator John McCain at Faneuil Hall in Mitt Romney's home state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.: Senator Barack Obama at a rally at the Meadowlands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ATLANTA: Mitt Romney boarded a plane for California after stumping in Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TRENDS (75%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (74%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



137 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: With an Unexpected Layoff Comes a New Sense of Political Urgency

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: HAMILTON, N.J. 

 BODY:
This election just got very personal for Tom Mahoney.
 On Friday, Mr. Mahoney, 40, was laid off from his job as an assistant service manager for a builder. He said he knows a new president probably will not help him get his job back. But being suddenly unemployed has made him more reflective about decisions he has not always taken so seriously. 
 ''I'd never gotten that much involved,'' Mr. Mahoney said on Monday as he hoisted his 4-year-old daughter, Samantha, on his shoulders before a rally here for Senator John McCain. ''But now I have a home, a wife, a daughter. And I'm trying to cover all my bases, learn all I can, and, hopefully, the country will get better.''
 Mr. Mahoney, who lives in Hamilton and has spent his entire life in New Jersey, said his formative political years were during Ronald Reagan's presidency, but he is not a fervent partisan. He opposes abortion in most cases, and said the Republican Party speaks most directly to his values.
 But the political issue that has troubled him the most lately is the war in Iraq, which, he said, is hypocritical. ''I wish the country would worry about itself,'' he said. ''The way I was raised, you try to get your house in order first before you impose your values on someone else.''
 While Mr. McCain's support for the United States' continued military presence in Iraq does not square with Mr. Mahoney's view, he said the senator is ''full of integrity.'' 
 Like the candidates, Mr. Mahoney also is increasingly focused on pocketbook issues. 
 Since he has lost his job, his wife has gone to work full time at the restaurant where she used to be a waitress part time. And he is trying to find new work.
 ''I have resumes out,'' Mr. Mahoney said. ''I've filled out applications to more builders. But all builders are laying off.'' 
 ''I didn't see it coming,'' he said of his layoff, adding, ''I've never been without a job for the 20-some years I've been working.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); IRAQ WAR (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); ABORTION (52%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



138 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Lame-Duck Budget

 BODY:
President Bush's 2009 budget is a grim guided tour through his misplaced priorities, failed fiscal policies and the disastrous legacy that he will leave for the next president. And even that requires you to accept the White House's optimistic accounting, which seven years of experience tells us would be foolish in the extreme. 
 With Mr. Bush on his way out the door and the Democrats in charge of Congress, it is not clear how many of the president's priorities, unveiled on Monday, will survive. Among its many wrongheaded ideas, the budget includes some $2 billion to ratchet up enforcement-heavy immigration policies and billions more for a defense against ballistic missiles that show no signs of working. 
 What will definitely outlast Mr. Bush for years to come are big deficits, a military so battered by the Iraq war that it will take hundreds of billions of dollars to repair it and stunted social programs that have been squeezed to pay for Mr. Bush's misguided military adventure and his misguided tax cuts for the wealthy. 
 The president claimed on Monday that his plan would put the country on the path to balancing the budget by 2012. That is nonsense. His own proposal projects a $410 billion deficit for 2008 and a $407 billion deficit next year. Even more disingenuous, Mr. Bush's projection for a balanced budget in 2012 assumes only partial funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for 2009, and no such spending -- zero -- starting in 2010. 
 It also assumes that there will be no long-running relief from the alternative minimum tax -- which would be ruinous for the middle class -- and that there will be deep cuts in Medicare and other health care spending that have proved to be politically impossible to enact. 
 Mr. Bush, of course, inherited a surplus from the Clinton administration, which he quickly used up on his tax cuts. He then continued cutting taxes after the surpluses were gone and even after launching the war in Iraq -- $600 billion and counting. Mr. Bush remains unrepentant. Even now, with the economy -- and revenues -- slowing, he is pushing to make those tax cuts permanent. That would be fiscally catastrophic. 
 The big winner, predictably, is the Pentagon. After adjusting for inflation, the proposed defense budget of $515.4 billion -- which does not include either war spending or the cost of nuclear weapons -- would be up by more than 30 percent since Mr. Bush took office and would be the highest level of military spending since World War II. 
 Mr. Bush's war of choice in Iraq, on top of the war of necessity in Afghanistan, has seriously strained the American military -- its people and its equipment. Even a new president committed to a swift withdrawal of American troops from Iraq will have to keep asking for large Pentagon budgets, both to repair that damage and to prepare the country to face what will continue to be a very dangerous world. 
 What is so infuriating about this budget is there is not even a hint of the need for real trade-offs. As far as anyone can tell, not a single weapons system would be canceled. That means it will be up to Congress -- also far too captive to military-industry lobbyists -- to start scaling back or canceling expensive programs that don't meet today's threats, or tomorrow's. 
 There is one place we're delighted to see Mr. Bush invest more money: a proposal to hire 1,100 new diplomats. The next president will need all of the diplomatic help he or she can get to contain the many international disasters Mr. Bush will leave behind. 
 Predictably, the big losers in Mr. Bush's budget are domestic-spending programs -- including medical research, environmental protection and education -- which will either be held flat or cut. 
 Even more predictably, most of Mr. Bush's touted savings would come from programs intended to protect the country's most vulnerable citizens: the elderly, the poor and the disabled. The budget would sharply restrain the growth of spending on the huge Medicare health insurance program, in an effort to save some $178 billion over the next five years. The administration would achieve that primarily by cutting the annual increases in payments to hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers that are designed to keep up with the rising costs of caring for Medicare beneficiaries. 
 There is clearly room to restrain the rate of growth in some of these payments. But the size and duration of the cuts are irresponsible. Meanwhile, Mr. Bush -- who insists that every answer to the country's health care woes can be found in the private sector -- has left largely untouched the big subsidies that prop up the private Medicare Advantage insurance plans. Eliminating these unjustified subsidies could save Medicare more than $50 billion over five years and $150 billion over 10 years. 
 Just as the nation seems on the edge of a recession, the budget would also shave federal contributions to state Medicaid programs by some $17 billion over five years. That is exactly the wrong direction to go in tough economic times, when low-income workers who lose their jobs need Medicaid coverage and states have fewer funds to supply it.
 All of this means that Mr. Bush will leave his successor a daunting list of problems: the ever-rising cost of health care, the tens of millions of uninsured, a military that is desperately in need of rebuilding. Thanks to Mr. Bush's profligate ways, it also means that the next president will have even less money for solving them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); MEDICARE (64%); IMMIGRATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



139 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Final Budget Hints At Tough Choices to Come

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush's final budget, a $3 trillion plan offered Monday that would continue his tax cuts and sharply reduce domestic spending, has little chance of surviving in a Democratic Congress. But the problems it lays out will survive and grow, presenting tough choices for the next administration.
 How, for example, will the next president rein in the cost of retirement and health programs? What will he or she do about tax increases on Americans when Mr. Bush's tax cuts expire at the end of 2010, or when the alternative minimum tax propels millions of taxpayers into higher brackets each year? 
 Beyond these familiar traps, how will a Republican president pay for further promised tax cuts or a Democratic president pay for a sweeping health care overhaul without increasing the red ink left by Mr. Bush?
 ''Republicans and Democrats are in complete denial on these issues,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute and former director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''But were they to face up to the long-run fiscal challenges, it would be a ticket to defeat. It's not what voters want to hear.''
 The presidential campaign does not exactly reverberate with proposals for dealing with these problems. 
 For the Democrats, Senators Barack Obama of Illinois and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York would find the money by letting taxes rise for the wealthiest Americans. But that step would not raise enough money to pay for the spending programs they propose.
 On the Republican side, Senator John McCain of Arizona and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts would cut wasteful federal spending -- Mr. McCain points to ''earmarks'' for ''pork barrel'' projects -- but budget experts agree that there is not enough money to be had from that course of action either.
 Mr. Bush's budget would cut earmarks by $18 billion, an amount certain to provoke outcries in Congress but so small as to be of symbolic importance.
 A presidential election year, of course, is rarely a time for politicians to propose outsized, unpleasant choices. But with the economy turning downward, there is even less appetite this year to wage ideological battles.
 The deficit is expected to grow to at least $400 billion, or just under 3 percent of the gross domestic product, in Mr. Bush's final year in office, and probably more than that because of the Iraq war. That level approaches previous deficit records and is considerably higher than what Mr. Bush had projected a few months ago. The largest federal budget deficit -- $413 billion, or 3.6 percent of the overall economy -- came in the 2004 fiscal year.
 But a large part of the shortfall results from the normal decline in federal revenues when there is an economic downturn, along with the stimulus package that leaders of both parties support.
 Instead of deploring deficit spending, both sides have come together to agree that financial reckoning will have to be postponed. Jim Nussle, a former Republican congressman from Iowa who is the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said there was little short-run reason to worry.
 ''It's a manageable deficit,'' Mr. Nussle said. ''It isn't the largest in history by any stretch of the imagination.''
 Mr. Nussle also said that the large deficit ''in sheer dollar terms doesn't mean anything'' because, compared with the size of the economy, the deficit had not grown by that much.
 But Democrats and their budget allies argue that if the deficit can be dismissed so easily, so can the problem of domestic spending. 
 Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget Policy and Priorities, said ''discretionary'' domestic spending -- which is everything outside national security and entitlement programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid -- is falling to historic lows as a proportion of the overall economy, roughly 3 percent or less.
 Cuts in this spending, which makes up perhaps a sixth of the budget, was what provoked outrage in Congress because the White House wants to eliminate or scale back dozens of programs, including home heating assistance, aid to schools and housing vouchers for the poor.
 A year ago, Mr. Bush proposed similar cuts and found that even with a Democratic-controlled Congress, he could use veto threats to get his way. In December, Congress passed an omnibus spending bill for the current fiscal year that added a mere $20 billion over what Mr. Bush had sought.
 Everyone agrees that the unconstrained growth in the cost of entitlement programs poses a long-term threat to federal solvency. Last year, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, cited projections of the Congressional Budget Office that Social Security and Medicare outlays were due to rise from 8.5 percent of the economy to 10.5 percent in 2015 and 15 percent in 2030.
 The cost of continuing the Bush tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 and of preventing more taxpayers from being hit by the alternative minimum tax is estimated at $4 trillion over 10 years.
 Mr. Bush's new budget would sharply cut the growth of Medicare and Medicaid by reducing payments to hospitals and doctors. Democrats reject such ideas, but their budget experts also know that something needs to be done.
 One idea, advanced by Senators Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, and Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, is to set up a bipartisan commission to help the next president and Congress deal with these issues, possibly through legislation.
 Another idea, intended to get out from under the financial constraints imposed by the ''pay as you go'' philosophy embraced by some Democrats, would establish a federal capital budget, similar to what many businesses and local governments have. Such a budget would pay for infrastructure -- bridges, roads, ports and the like -- by borrowing rather than charging them to the annual budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



140 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Bush Presents Budget That Would Increase Deficit

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Robert Pear contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush sent Congress a $3.1 trillion budget on Monday that would increase military spending and curb the growth of Medicare and Medicaid but raise the federal deficit by nearly $250 billion, a major setback for a president who is trying to restore his credentials as a fiscal conservative.
 The 2009 budget, Mr. Bush's last before leaving office, was also the first to be submitted to lawmakers entirely electronically, prompting some Democrats to joke that the president did not print up copies because he had run out of red ink. 
 Mr. Bush used the document to champion some of his favorite causes -- cutting earmarks and making his tax cuts permanent -- while pledging, as he did last year, to balance the budget by 2012. But the plan stands virtually no chance of being adopted. 
 Even Republicans conceded on Monday that its value was mostly, if not entirely, symbolic.
 ''It's almost a pro forma exercise,'' said Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee. Referring to the White House, Mr. Gregg said, ''I don't think they even worked very hard at it.''
 While Mr. Bush had hoped to preside over a shrinking of the federal deficit in his final year in office, the budget projects that the deficit, which dropped substantially from 2004 to 2007, will go up again, to $410 billion in 2008 from $162 billion last year. That would approach the record set in 2004, when the deficit hit $413 billion. 
 The growing deficit is primarily, but not entirely, due to the economic stimulus package of tax rebates being developed on Capitol Hill. Even so, Mr. Bush says his proposal puts the nation on track for a balanced budget by 2012. 
 ''This is a good, solid budget,'' he said, after meeting with his cabinet at the White House on Monday morning.
 The plan covers the fiscal year 2009; Mr. Bush will be gone from office three months after that year begins. Democrats say they intend to replace the proposal with their own. They complained, as did some Republicans, that the budget achieved its goals through fiscal trickery, by not fully accounting for war spending and by assuming, for example, that domestic spending would hold steady from 2009 to 2013. 
 Fulfilling a promise he made in his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush proposed eliminating or reducing 151 programs as wasteful or inefficient, saving $18 billion in 2009. The Department of Education accounts for 47 of the terminated programs and three of the programs to be reduced. 
 Among them is a college scholarship program named for Senator Robert C. Byrd, the 90-year-old West Virginia Democratwho is the the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Mr. Bush proposed eliminating the program, for a savings of $40 billion, which infuriated Mr. Byrd.
 ''The president has slammed the door to a college education in the faces of young Americans,'' he said in a statement.
 Every budget is as much a declaration of principles as an actual spending plan. For Mr. Bush, who took office with a $236 billion surplus that turned into a deficit after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the war in Afghanistan, this final budget offers a chance to rewrite his fiscal history. For years, he has faced criticism from fiscal conservatives like Mr. Gregg. 
 As a result, this year's budget limits the growth of all federal programs, other than the military, domestic security and so-called entitlements like Social Security and Medicare, to less than 1 percent. Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, called the plan ''a chance to show we are serious about reforming pork-barrel spending.'' 
 Mr. Bush proposes a significant increase in spending for the Pentagon. If the Defense Department's proposed $515.4 billion budget is approved in full, it will mean that, when adjusted for inflation, annual military spending will reach its highest level since World War II. The figure does not include spending on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the war on terror and supplemental items.
 Mr. Bush said his budget would slow ''the unsustainable growth of entitlement spending'' with proposed savings of $208 billion over five years. This includes savings of $178 billion in Medicare, $17 billion in Medicaid and $6 billion in student aid programs. Medicare, for instance, would grow by 5 percent under the Bush budget, not the 7.2 percent as currently predicted, according to Mr. Bush's budget director, Jim Nussle. 
 The budget estimates that federal receipts will decline this fiscal year by $47 billion, to $2.5 trillion, mainly because of the soft economy and a decline in corporate income tax receipts. At the same time, federal spending is expected to rise this year by $201 billion, to a total of $2.9 trillion. (By contrast, receipts grew at a brisk pace averaging 11 percent a year from 2004 to 2007.)
 Federal debt held by the public, the accumulated total of federal borrowing, has grown substantially and would continue to do so. According to budget documents released Monday by the White House, debt held by the public stood at $3.3 trillion in 2001, when Mr. Bush took office, and is expected to climb to $5.4 trillion this year and $5.9 trillion in 2009.
 ''Ever since this administration turned record surpluses into record deficits, they've assured us that there's good news just around the corner, good news just around the corner,'' said Representative John M. Spratt Jr., the South Carolina Democrat and chairman of the House Budget Committee. ''Well, we've turned the corner and we've found out the news is not so good at all.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about President Bush's 2009 budget misstated the cost of a scholarship program named for Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia. It is $40 million, not $40 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bush with his cabinet Monday morning. Mr. Bush's budget cuts some spending but expenditures would rise over all.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Representative John M. Spratt Jr., left, and Senator Kent Conrad, Congressional Budget Committee chairmen.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: More Red Ink: President Bush's budget for 2009 projects a much larger deficit for the next two years. (Source: Office of Management and Budget) Chart details bar graph for projected deficit from 1980-2010
 Federal Spending Increases: President Bush's budget request called for increases in outlays for most federal departments in the 2009 fiscal year over estimated spending in 2008.Chart details BUDGET OUTLAYS. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); TAX LAW (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TAX RELIEF (74%); MEDICAID (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JUDD GREGG (74%); ROBERT BYRD (59%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



141 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Central Banker Engineers His Economics

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The day after the Federal Reserve's emergency interest rate cut two weeks ago, Jean-Claude Trichet went before the European Parliament to deliver perhaps the most eagerly awaited speech of his four years as president of the European Central Bank.
 It was a dense, technical presentation, packed with meaty thoughts on how Europe's financial system could navigate the credit crisis spreading from the United States. But his audience cared about only one thing: Would Europe's central bank follow the Fed's cut?
 The answer, which Mr. Trichet saved for the end of the talk, was no. Fighting inflation, he said, was still the bank's cardinal goal -- the ''needle of our compass,'' to use his well-worn phrase, which did not mean, of course, that the bank would never cut rates again. 
 It was a vintage performance by the world's other most important central banker, showing off both Mr. Trichet's cool-headed response to the market turmoil and his iron resolve that Europeans chart their own course in reacting to the troubles in the United States. 
 By comparison, bank watchers say, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has looked wobbly.
 ''In this situation, we're lucky to have a genuine son of Brittany,'' Alexandre Lamfalussy, former head of the European Monetary Institute, a forerunner to the central bank, said of the French-born Mr. Trichet. ''Navigating in choppy waters is something a Breton knows well. He seems to like these conditions.'' 
 But now, Mr. Trichet, 65, may be tacking into even heavier seas. If the United States tumbles into a recession, most experts agree, growth will slow across Europe, perhaps sharply. Some countries, like Ireland and Spain, already face a collapse in housing prices not unlike that in much of the United States.
 And with inflation running well above the central bank's threshold of 2 percent, Mr. Trichet fears that labor unions in Germany and elsewhere will use higher prices to extract big pay raises.
 This danger has led Mr. Trichet to warn that the bank might actually raise, rather than cut, rates. Few economists expect the bank to make good on this threat, but some argue that it has put itself in a box, at a time when it needs all the flexibility it can get.
 If all this is not enough, there are nagging questions about Europe's own banks. Many have yet to disclose their full exposure to the subprime market, and experts say the risk of a banking crisis is more acute than it was last August, when the European Central Bank won praise for its timely injection of billions of euros into the financial system.
 ''We know there is a lot of toxic stuff in euro-zone banks,'' said Adam Posen, the deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''Up until now, the E.C.B. has had it easier than the Fed. Now they're coming into a difficult period.''
 Given the murkier outlook, some bank watchers expect Mr. Trichet to start laying the groundwork for a shift in policy Thursday, when the bank's governing council holds its monthly meeting. Many economists predict that by summer, the bank will join the Fed in cutting rates.
 The question is, Will that be soon enough for Europe to ward off the economic chill from the United States? 
 ''They're beginning to fall a little behind events,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''It seems to me they were more on the ball last summer.''
 Mr. Mayer attributes this dichotomy, in part, to Mr. Trichet, whom he notes was trained as an engineer, rather than an economist like Mr. Bernanke or Mervyn A. King, the governor of the Bank of England.
 ''Trichet was very good when the banking system had a bout of indigestion,'' Mr. Mayer said. ''He intuitively realized there was a plumbing problem that needed to be fixed. Bernanke was much slower in realizing this, while Mervyn King was worrying about moral hazard.''
 The trouble, Mr. Mayer said, is that Mr. Trichet's skills may be less suited to the next phase of the crisis, which will involve reading economic tea leaves and making bets on future events.
 The engineer's approach is 'show me the facts; what is there to fix?' '' Mr. Mayer said. ''The economist says there are serious problems brewing; I have to do something about it now.'' 
 Until now, adversity has been good for the European Central Bank and its president. Starting Aug. 9, when Mr. Trichet took the lead among central bankers in injecting money into the world financial system to prevent a credit paralysis, he has shown a steady hand.
 Mr. Trichet orchestrated a $139 billion injection that analysts say helped head off a calamitous seizing up of the market. Since then, the bank has periodically pumped more cash into the system, often in tandem with the Federal Reserve. Analysts say Mr. Trichet has cultivated close ties to Mr. Bernanke.
 The European Central Bank's effective response was partly because of institutional advantages. At the time, it accepted a wider range of securities as collateral for cash than the Fed or the Bank of England, which allowed it to marshal more resources. 
 Still, the swift response was a milestone for the bank. It proved the mettle of a 10-year-old institution that critics once said would be hamstrung by the collective nature of its leadership.
 Publicly, Mr. Trichet has become the undisputed face of the bank -- a role, given his prominence at meetings like the World Economic Forum that he seems to savor.
 Certainly, he was well prepared. Educated in an engineering school and later at the elite Ecole Nationale d'Administration, he spent his entire career, before his current post, in the French civil service, rising to be governor of the Bank of France.
 ''Trichet is your classic enarque,'' said Mr. Posen, using French shorthand for a civil servant trained at the Ecole Nationale. ''Tough, politically savvy, reluctant to give up power.''
 The question, he said, is whether Mr. Trichet will be able to keep control, especially if more banks get into trouble. If that happens, he said, the pressure from political leaders will be intense.
 Absent such a crisis, however, Mr. Posen said he would not quibble with the bank's focus on inflation. With Europeans recoiling at the price of bread and milk inflation is a real threat.
 ''The E.C.B. has a genuinely difficult call,'' he said. ''Growth is slowing down, but there is uncertainty about how quickly it is slowing down, or how much.''
 Mr. Trichet has not yet offered detailed remedies for the crisis. In his remarks to the European Parliament, he called on banks to scrutinize their risk management policies. He also questioned the system of incentives involving originators of loans, banks that package them with other securities, and agencies that rate them.
 ''He knows there have to be reforms, but he doesn't want to hurry it, and he's right,'' Mr. Lamfalussy said.
 Mr. Trichet's travel schedule, however, is so hectic that people inside the bank marvel at his stamina. On Monday, he was in Mumbai, India, for a meeting before returning to Frankfurt. 
 ''He's energized by the situation,'' said Philip Lane, the director of the Institute for International Integration Studies at Trinity College, Dublin, who was recently in a meeting with him. ''The E.C.B. and President Trichet are generally confident that they've done a good job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Herb Kohl, left, and Representative John Conyers indicated willingness to hold hearings on the proposed deal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); RECESSION (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); HOME PRICES (62%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (90%); JOHN CONYERS (59%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); HERB KOHL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



142 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Physicists Hope U.S. Budget Will Mean an End to Research Cuts

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
Under President Bush's proposed federal budget announced on Monday, research in the physical sciences would receive a hefty boost. 
 That is welcome news to physicists in a broad swath of fields, from those who study the tiniest of fundamental particles to those trying to understand basic science that could lead to future energy sources. It is especially welcome after two years of tight financial constrictions resulting from money wrangling between Congress and the White House that have turned off some experiments, delayed others and left some scientists unemployed.
 Under the proposed budget for fiscal year 2009, the United States would resume contributing to an international collaboration to build an experimental fusion power plant called Iter. Employees at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, the nation's top institution in particle physics, would no longer be forced to take two days of unpaid furlough each month. Design work on particle physics experiments would resume, and cutbacks in other programs might be restored. 
 The Office of Science at the Energy Department, which finances much of the physical sciences research, would receive an increase of nearly 19 percent, to $4.72 billion from $3.97 billion. Raymond L. Orbach, science under secretary at the Energy Department, said the proposal would begin to mend cuts made this year in high-energy particle physics, nuclear physics and basic energy research.
 ''We can put all of those back on track,'' Dr. Orbach said.
 The National Science Foundation would receive $6.85 billion, an increase of $822 million, or 14 percent over this year. Mr. Bush is asking for $634 million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, a 22 percent increase.
 Any optimism about the proposed budget is tempered by experience. In the past two years, Mr. Bush also proposed significant increases for the physical sciences budget, but the increases largely vanished by the time Congress finished the final spending bills. 
 ''It was glorious for '07 and it was glorious in '08, and in neither case was it realized,'' said Persis Drell, director of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, which is laying off about 120 workers, including some scientists, from its staff of 1,600 in the next couple of weeks, because of this year's budget cuts.
 For the same reason, Fermilab is moving ahead with plans announced in December to lay off about 10 percent of its staff of 1,940. 
 ''If I just looked at the president's budget, one could imagine doing a number less than that,'' said Piermaria Oddone, director of the lab.
 Dr. Oddone said he had to plan for more dire possibilities, because of the uncertainties.
 The 2007 budget fell apart entirely after Democrats won control of both houses of Congress in the November 2006 elections. Instead of trying to complete an already delayed budget, Congress decided to finance the federal government via ''continuing resolutions,'' which largely maintained financing at 2006 levels.
 Last year, Mr. Bush again sought sizable increases for physical sciences research as part of his 2008 spending plan, in line with a promise to double financing by 2016. The increases for physical sciences research were offset by cuts elsewhere, including a cut for the National Institutes of Health.
 Members of Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, seemed to agree with the physical sciences increase but added back money to N.I.H., as well as programs looking at near-term energy technologies and climate change. 
 Those additions were part of the Senate and House versions of the budget that were billions of dollars higher than the president's. 
 With Congress and the president seeming to be in agreement on the science increases, national laboratories like Fermilab planned their spending accordingly. And when the 2008 fiscal year began Oct. 1 last year, they began spending, even though the final federal budget had not been passed and signed.
 In last-minute negotiating in December, Mr. Bush promised to veto a bill that did not rein in spending to his original spending target, and Congress relented. In science research, physical sciences bore much of the cut. 
 Fermilab, which had expected its budget to increase to $372 million from $342 million, instead absorbed a cut, to $320 million. Congress reduced the United States' contribution to Iter, the international fusion project, from $160 million to zero.
 This year, the president's proposal provides no increase at all for the National Institutes of Health. That may set up a replay of last year, with the large percentage increases for physical sciences offering an inviting target for budget cutters.
 ''It's the same scenario going forward for the third year in a row,'' said Kei Koizumi, director of the R&D Budget and Policy Program at the American Association for the Advancement of Science. ''With not enough money, there really is no way to make everyone happy.''
 Further complicating the process is the presidential election. There is widespread speculation that the Democratic-controlled Congress will delay passage of the budget bills in hopes that the next president will be a Democrat and more amenable to its priorities.
 If that happens, the government would again run on continuing resolutions, continuing financing of operations at the current 2008 levels, and not the hoped-for higher levels of 2009.
 ''Every expert I talk to says, 'Get ready for the continuing resolution,' '' Dr. Oddone of Fermilab said.
 Dr. Orbach said although the president's budget could put his programs back on track, a repeat of the past couple of years could be a turning point to a downward trend in those fields. International collaborators might turn to similar experiments in other countries. Graduate students might decide to switch careers.
 Dr. Orbach said that the decisions of Congress reflected the views of the public and that physicists needed to be more active in advocating for their research.
 A decision this year to roll back the increases again ''will lead to a flat investment scenario for the indefinite future,'' Dr. Orbach said. ''To me, that's falling off a cliff. If that is the will of the people, we are in real trouble.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN THE FRAY: Particle physics like the neutrino detector, left, at Fermilab, incurred deep cuts in its 2008 budget as Congress shifted funds to agencies like the National Institutes of Health. Electron microscopy image of H.I.V., right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, REIDAR HAHN/FERMILAB
RIGHT, JAMES CAVALLINI/PHOTO RESEARCHERS) CHART: Rolling Back Proposed Budget Increases: A year ago, the budget proposal included increases for the physical sciences that largely vanished from the final spending bill.(Source: American Association for the Advancement of Science) Chart details National Institutes of Health
Dept. of Energy Office of Science
 and National Science Foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (82%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



143 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: 2 Fast-Food Concerns Report Earnings; Shares Drop

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The hamburger chain Wendy's International said on Monday that fourth-quarter earnings more than quadrupled from a year ago, but it fell short of Wall Street expectations, and its shares fell 5 percent. 
 Shares of Yum Brands, which operates the KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut chains, also slipped in late trading Monday after it said its fourth-quarter profit fell slightly.
 Wendy's, which is considering putting itself up for sale, said it made $14.1 million, or 16 cents a share, for the quarter ended Dec. 30. That compares with $3 million, or 3 cents a share, for the year-ago period, when it recorded charges from the spinoff of the Tim Hortons doughnut chain and the sale of Baja Fresh Mexican Grill.
 Sales fell slightly in the quarter, to $596 million, from $596.4 million a year ago. While Wendy's beat the $592 million in revenue expected from analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, it fell 2 cents shy of analysts' per-share expectations.
 Wendy's shares fell 5 percent, to $23.93, Monday. 
 Executives on Monday would not discuss progress by the committee studying company options. Kerrii B. Anderson, Wendy's president and chief executive, and other executives expressed concern about the effects of the weak economy and higher prices for beef, chicken, grain, fuel and paper.
 Yum Brands said strong sales in its China and international divisions mostly countered the impact of higher costs, but net income edged lower to $231 million, from $232 million in the same period a year earlier. At 44 cents a share, earnings were up from 42 cents a share in 2006, because the results were based on 28 million fewer shares outstanding.
 Revenue rose 8 percent, to $3.26 billion, from $3.02 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had expected, on average, earnings of 42 cents a share on revenue of $3.14 billion.
 For Yum, China sales jumped 42 percent, while sales in the international segment climbed 13 percent, helping sales at stores open for at least a year to grow 4 percent worldwide. In the United States, sales fell 5 percent, though same-store sales rose 1 percent. Shares fell 91 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $34.90 in after-hours trading Monday, having ended the regular session at $35.81, up 57 cents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FAST FOOD (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BEEF (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); RETAIL BAKERIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: WENDY'S CO (92%); YUM! BRANDS INC (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); TACO BELL CORP (58%); TIM HORTONS INC (58%); PIZZA HUT INC (58%)

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (92%); YUM (NYSE) (85%); THI (TSX) (58%); THI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%)

PERSON: KERRII B ANDERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008



144 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 526 words

 BODY:
Dot Earth
 From Andrew C. Revkin's blog, nytimes.com/dotearth.
Is capturing and sequestering carbon dioxide a pipe dream? 
 It looks as if it's going to be a long while before anyone knows -- at least whether it's possible at a scale that could meaningfully cut into the tens of billions of tons of carbon dioxide slated to be released in coming decades by coal-rich countries led by the United States and China. 
 An array of experts have been warning that current efforts to design and build utility-scale tests of the complex array of technologies for capturing, compressing, and disposing of the gas are grossly insufficient. 
 Bruce Hall: There are so many factors affecting climate ... that the myopic focus on CO2 is without question the greatest single folly of science and economics to strike our civilization.
 Elizabeth Tjader: As long as we're talking about carbon sequestration, at some point can we explore what else is going underground, into our Earth? ... Nothing sends my spirit plummeting more than seeing our excess in the form of garbage at the dumps.
 TierneyLab
 From John Tierney's blog, nytimes.com/tierneylab. 
 After visiting the eHarmony Labs, I wondered if its algorithm would match me and my wife of 12 years, Dana. So we each registered separately with eHarmony and answered the 258 questions. 
 Then, presto, eHarmony started providing matches. Dana got more -- understandably! -- but even I got several dozen over the course of the next week. Even though we'd said we wanted nearby matches and had entered the same ZIP code, eHarmony didn't match us. Does this mean that there's something wrong with eHarmony, or with our marriage? 
 Maybe we'll find another matchmaking site to see if we find each other -- although I do feel a little guilty doing this kind of experiment, because it wastes the time of all the partners who were matched with us during the past week. 
 I hereby apologize to all the women I rejected after looking at their profiles and checking off the same lame excuse: ''I don't feel that the chemistry is there.'' Really, it's not you. It's my wife.
 Well
 From Tara Parker-Pope's blog, nytimes.com/well.
 The midlife crisis, a time of self-doubt and turmoil familiar to many in their 40s and 50s, is often viewed as a phenomenon of Western culture. But a study of two million people suggests that people all over the world are miserable in middle age. 
 Researchers found that happiness levels followed a U-shaped curve, higher toward the start and end of our lives. In the United States, unhappiness peaks around age 40 for women and 50 for men. Researchers found a similar U shape in 72 countries. 
 But the good news is that midlife depression doesn't last. ''By the time you are 70, if you are still physically fit, then on average you are as happy and mentally healthy as a 20-year-old,'' said a co-author, Andrew Oswald. 
 Dutton: It takes until 70 to realize that life doesn't have to be remarkable to be fulfilling and that the difference between serenity and suffering is ...having the wisdom to recognize that.
 Chris: Boy, I hope it peaks at 50. That means only 39 more days of this ... to go!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (87%); CHEMISTRY (78%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); WOMEN (73%); DATING SERVICES (70%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



145 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: A Warhol Surfaces and Is Headed for Court

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Annie Correal contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Last September, a man who has admittedly lived a hard-knock life walked into Christie's auction house with an Andy Warhol painting of a dollar sign and asked to have it put up for sale.
 Though one can never judge by appearances, especially when it comes to art lovers, something about this particular art lover, Jason Beltrez, seemed a little bit off to the staff at Christie's. 
 They accepted the painting but immediately contacted the Art Loss Register, the world's largest private databank of lost and stolen art, to make sure it was legitimate. 
 ''Bingo,'' as Chris Marinello, director and general counsel of the register's New York office put it Tuesday. 
 The painting was one of two Warhol dollar-sign paintings, created in 1981, measuring about 16 by 20 inches, that disappeared from the walls of the Martin Lawrence Galleries in SoHo on Valentine's Day in 1998.
 Now the gallery is suing Mr. Beltrez to get the painting back, claiming it has clear title under the law. But Mr. Beltrez, 44, has hired a lawyer and is fighting back, casting himself as an honest man, a Brooklyn homeowner, father of three children and former grocery store manager who got lucky. 
 He says he bought the painting for $180 at a New Jersey flea market, and deserves either to get it back or to be rewarded. He invokes the law of the street -- finders keepers, losers weepers.
 ''It's the big guy trying to get over the little guy,'' Mr. Beltrez, who said he had managed a C-town supermarket in the Bronx until about a year and a half ago. He is unemployed now. 
 Mr. Marinello, of the art register, said that he sympathized with Mr. Beltrez's position, but that the law was against him. ''I tried to negotiate with Mr. Beltrez,'' Mr. Marinello said Tuesday. ''When it was clear that he did not understand, I urged him to get a lawyer. I even spoke to his social worker in Brooklyn.''
 The gallery and Christie's through their lawyers declined to comment.
 Mr. Beltrez, interviewed at his three-story house in Windsor Terrace, said he had found the painting, a gold and crimson image of a dollar sign, at a flea market outside the Holland Tunnel in New Jersey in the mid-1990s. He said he used to go there because he was a Giants fan and a collector of Lalique and Baccarat crystal.
 ''It was very fiery,'' he said. ''I thought it would bring me luck.''
 He hung it in a place of honor between two green-curtained windows and across from a crimson couch in his living room. 
 His luck has not been so good, though. After a death in the family about nine months ago, he said, he began abusing intravenous drugs and went into drug rehabilitation -- hence the social worker.
 Then, he said, a friend recognized the painting as having been painted by ''the Campbell's soup guy,'' and offered him $40,000 for it.
 Instead, Mr. Beltrez took the painting to Christie's, thinking it was ''the right thing'' to do.
 Mr. Beltrez admitted that there were some odd coincidences in this case. He was raised on Broome Street a few blocks from the gallery at 457 West Broadway, where the painting was stolen in 1998. Some public records show he lived there at that time, though Mr. Beltrez said he moved in 1989.
 Mr. Marinello said that the police investigation of the theft was continuing but that no criminal charges had been filed. 
 Mr. Beltrez said he expected to be vindicated. ''This country is only fair for people lined in green,'' he said. ''I know I'm the good guy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 1981 Andy Warhol was reported stolen in SoHo in 1998. A Brooklyn man recently took it to an auction house to sell it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN LAWRENCE GALLERIES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); ART THEFT (78%); PAINTING (78%); LITIGATION (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (91%); BACCARAT SA (51%)

TICKER: BCRA (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (91%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



146 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Dow Plunges On New Sign Of Recession

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Stocks plummeted on Wall Street on Tuesday after a business survey provided another strong signal that the United States might be in the early stages of a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 370 points as the market experienced its worst day in nearly a year.
 The survey, by the Institute for Supply Management, reported that activity in the nonmanufacturing sector contracted in January for the first time since March 2003.
 The institute's nonmanufacturing business activity index fell to 41.9 in January, from a seasonally adjusted 54.4 in December. It was the lowest level since October 2001, when the nation was traumatized by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 ''This is an indication for the first time that the bulk of the economy is contracting,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR. ''It is sending people into recession panic mode here.'' 
 Readings below 50 indicate a contraction, a sign that most businesses think things are getting worse. Most economists had been expecting a figure of about 53, signaling a slowdown but not a contraction.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 370.03 points, or 2.9 percent, to 12,265.13. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.2 percent, and the Nasdaq composite lost 3.1 percent. Stock markets in Europe also fell sharply. In London, the FTSE 100 closed down 2.6 percent. In Frankfurt, the DAX was down 3.4 percent, and the CAC 40 index in France was off 4 percent.
 Asian markets Wednesday morning took their cue from Wall Street, with most falling sharply. Japan's Nikkei share average fell more than 4 percent and Hong Kong was down nearly 5 percent. 
 In the American market, the declines in the major averages were the largest since Feb. 27, 2007, when a brief plunge in the Chinese market alarmed investors worldwide. The Chinese market later recovered, and even after some recent weakness is twice as high as it was then.
 The S.& P. 500 is now down 8.97 percent since the start of the year. Howard Silverblatt, an S.& P. analyst, said this was the worst performance ever for the index at this point into the year. 
 Confidence among European investors has been undermined by weaker-than-expected European economic data. Economists said the data suggested that economic distress was no longer solely a problem in the United States but was spreading. 
 ''The weak European data is starting to become more prevalent,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''The concept of America as an island and everyone else being fat and happy is no longer clear.''
 In the United States survey, businesses complained of rising costs and falling orders. In responding to the survey, 42 percent of businesses said they felt worse about the next 12 months compared with 2007; only 16 percent felt better.
 For the first time, the institute published a monthly composite index to provide a broader measure of the nonmanufacturing sector, taking in the measures of business activity, new orders, employment and supplier deliveries. This index was 44.6 in January, indicating a contraction.
 According to the new nonmanufacturing report, only 3 nonmanufacturing industries reported growth in January, while 14 contracted.
 The index was released earlier than planned on Tuesday, the institute said, because of a possible leak. Analysts said rumors that the figures were going to be poor had circulated earlier and might have been a reason for the early weakness in stocks.
 In the report, the institute's chairman, Anthony S. Nieves, said, ''The overall indication in January is that nonmanufacturing has come to the end of a long-term period of growth and has contracted for the month of January.''
 Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, called the figures ''terrible.''
 ''This clearly makes it more likely that it's not just a slowdown but a recession in the first half of this year,'' he said. ''The general picture emerging is that the economy is contracting.''
 Mr. Gault said that during earlier slowdowns the index declined gradually over several months, but this time the index dropped extraordinarily sharply.
 The latest survey followed the publication of government figures Friday showing that employers eliminated 17,000 jobs in January. It was the first decline in the work force in more than four years.
 The big decline provided evidence that the Federal Reserve had reason to sharply reduce short-term interest rates in January, cutting the federal funds rate by 1.25 percentage points, to 3.5 percent, in two moves that served notice the Fed was worried about slow growth.
 But one aspect of the institute's report provided a warning of the limits of action available to the Fed. The institute reported that most companies were paying higher prices for the things they buy, indicating that inflation may be getting stronger even as the economy slows.
 Some economists held out hope that the index's plunge was overdone and would be reversed. ''One extreme number on its own is not a reliable recession signal,'' said Julian Jessop of Capital Economics. ''It is so out of line with other January indicators that it is hard to know whether or not to believe it.''
 Others saw further evidence that the economy was softening. 
 ''The tea leaves are quickly accumulating,'' Stephen Stanley of RBC Greenwich Capital said. ''Payroll employment has flattened. The Christmas retail season was weak. Consumer spending seems to have weakened further in January, as auto sales fell noticeably. And of course the housing sector is a mess.''
 ''Layered on top of this, financial markets, which we had hoped would find some footing after year-end, have gotten much worse so far in 2008, with the high-yield market imploding, stocks sagging, the leveraged loan backlog totally stuck and banks tightening credit fairly broadly.''
 On Monday, the Federal Reserve released a survey of lending officers indicating tighter lending standards.
 The nonmanufacturing index released Tuesday dates back only to 1997. In 2001, it turned lower in April, a month after what the National Bureau of Economic Research later concluded was the beginning of the recession.
 The manufacturing index, with a much longer history, dipped under 50 in December but bounced back in January. That may reflect the continuing strength of the world economy, which has led to rising exports for manufacturers and strong orders for many of their foreign subsidiaries.
 In Tuesday's report, there were sharp drops in both new orders and in employment indexes, showing that most companies are reluctant to hire and are seeing few new orders.
 Stock prices rose last week on suggestions that the economy might be stronger than expected, and even with declines on Monday and Tuesday share prices remain well above the lows set in the middle of last month.
 Still, all 10 economic sectors in the S.& P. 500 fell on Tuesday. Financial stocks, off an average of 4.6 percent, turned in the worst showing. Three financial stocks fell by more than 10 percent, including NYSE Euronext, which reported higher profit but said it had to delay plans to reduce some expenses, and the Principal Financial Group, which said its earnings plunged because of investment losses. 
 There was also significant weakness in stocks dependent on construction activity. Martin Marietta Materials, a large supplier of construction sand and gravel, fell $12.10, to $106.02, after reporting lower earnings. Vulcan Materials, a competitor, dropped $5.92, to $69.52. 
 Home building stocks, which had rallied strongly in recent weeks on hopes that the worst was over in that market, have turned lower again. The S.& P. 500 home builders index fell 4.9 percent on Tuesday, after dropping 6 percent on Monday.
 One of the few stocks to rise was Whirlpool, which said profits were up because of strong sales in Asia and Latin America and savings from closing American manufacturing plants. It gained $8.41, to $90.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 20/32, to 105 18/32. Its yield fell to 3.57 percent, from 3.64 percent. 
 Following are the results of Tuesday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange reflects the mood of a down day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) (pg. C8)
Traders at the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. Share prices remain well above the lows set in the middle of last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KARP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C8) GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) (pg. C8) Graph showing the position of the Dow Jones industrial average of the current day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



147 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Triple at NYSE, but the Share Price Plunges

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
NYSE Euronext said Tuesday that its fourth-quarter profit more than tripled as trading volume surged and more companies listed themselves on the exchange. 
 Its shares tumbled, however, over investor concerns that combining the New York Stock Exchange and Euronext had not produced adequate savings. ''People are hungry for those synergies because we're potentially in an environment where you could see recession,'' said David Easthope, a senior analyst with Celent, a financial consulting firm based in Boston. ''People are saying the synergies aren't happening fast enough.''
 In a sharply lower market Tuesday, NYSE Euronext shares fell $11.70, or more than 14 percent, to $71.03.
 The company said its net income rose to $156 million, or 59 cents a share, from $45 million, or 29 cents a share in the period a year earlier. Revenue increased to $1.18 billion from $659 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%)

COMPANY: NYSE EURONEXT INC (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

TICKER: NYX (PAR) (91%); NYX (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



148 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Open a 1980 Gehry Mall Design to the Air

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Frank Gehry won acclaim as an innovative architect when he redesigned his home in this beachside city. But another local Gehry design, the enclosed 1980 mall known as Santa Monica Place, has long been regarded as obsolete -- a suburban-style shopping center that turns its back on a thriving urban corridor.
 Last week, Santa Monica Place, bounded by Colorado Avenue, Broadway and Second and Fourth Streets, was shuttered. Macerich, a Santa Monica-based real estate investment trust that bought the mall in 1999, will transform it into an open-air shopping center with a restaurant deck overlooking the Pacific Ocean, which is just a couple of blocks away.
 The mall is often described as a ''cork'' that cuts off pedestrian traffic from the adjacent Third Street Promenade, a pedestrians-only shopping strip that has been hugely popular since it was refurbished in 1989. In redeveloping the mall, the original back door will be opened up, the steps will be replaced by a ramp, and brick pavers and jacaranda trees will be added, echoing those at the Promenade across the street. 
 ''There will be a seamless connection,'' said David E. Rogers, a senior vice president at the Jerde Partnership, an architectural firm in Venice, Calif., in charge of the redesign of Santa Monica Place. ''You won't feel like you've walked into a separate project.'' The roofless mall is expected to reopen in the fall of 2009. Macerich has not disclosed how much it is spending.
 The plans, which will slightly reduce the mall's footprint of 550,000 square feet, call for widening the corridors; replacing the dark, cluttered courtyard with a larger, elliptical space; and bringing in more upscale tenants. 
 The project's scale represents a triumph for residents, who beat back Macerich's far more ambitious plan, unveiled in 2004, to tear down the mall and replace it with a 10-acre complex of high-rise residential buildings, office space and stores.
 Since 1980, Santa Monica, with a population of 88,000, has more than doubled its stock of office space to about 13.1 million square feet, said Andy Agle, the city's director for housing and economic development. Many office workers commute long distances because of the steep housing costs in Santa Monica and adjacent neighborhoods on the Westside of Los Angeles.
 The proposed high-density complex at Santa Monica Place raised fears that traffic gridlock would worsen, said Diana Gordon, a co-chairwoman of the Santa Monica Coalition for a Livable City, a group that opposed the project. ''The towers were lightning rods for the frustrations about traffic and overdevelopment,'' she said.
 Randy Brant, a Macerich executive vice president, said his company came up with the plan for the large-scale project at the urging of the city, which was working to update the nearby Civic Center and connect it to the city's downtown. But he conceded that Macerich was caught short. 
 ''We'll take full blame for misreading the community, thinking they would want something like that,'' Mr. Brant said. ''Once we took it out to the community, we knew immediately that it wasn't going to work.''
 In response to the protests, the city held a series of well-attended public workshops. During that process, Macerich bought 11 stores that Federated Department Stores (now Macy's Inc.) had acquired from May Department Stores, including one store of the defunct Robinsons-May chain at Santa Monica Place. 
 The purchase of that store gives Macerich a chance to attract a new anchor tenant -- perhaps Nordstrom, which has a store in the Westside Pavilion, another Macerich mall only six miles away. Other candidates are Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bloomingdale's, all already represented on the Westside. (Macy's owns its store at Santa Monica Place, which will remain open during the mall's redevelopment.)
 Normally retailers would hesitate to open a second store so close by. But in Los Angeles the heavy traffic creates distinct shopping districts, said Jim Sullivan, an analyst at Green Street Advisors, a research company in Newport Beach, Calif., that focuses on REITs. ''The rules of thumb don't apply when you talk about West L.A.,'' he said. 
 No tenants have been announced, but Tony Grossi, another Macerich executive vice president, said the retailers are not likely to compete with the Third Street Promenade, where the stores largely cater to shoppers aged 18 to 30. ''Santa Monica has a wealthy resident population,'' he said, ''and they have no immediate choices for luxury or near-luxury shopping.'' Macerich has gradually emptied out the mall by making its leases short term.
 Judging by the success of the Third Street Promenade, which occupies three city blocks, analysts say they expect the revamped mall to do very well. Over the years, the independent retailers that lined the Promenade, including several bookstores, have given way to the type of chain stores that can be found in shopping malls throughout the country. 
 These national retailers, of course, can pay higher rents. Jan Sweetnam, the West Coast asset manager for Federal Realty Investment Trust, a REIT based in Rockville, Md., that owns most of the buildings on the two northernmost blocks of the Promenade, said annual rents were $20 to $25 a square foot in 1996 and have climbed to $220 a square foot now. ''We have people looking at spaces for 2010 and 2011,'' he said.
 Santa Monica Place could have been an open-air mall from the outset. Three decades ago, Jon A. Jerde, chairman and president of the Jerde Partnership, the firm that has redesigned the mall, proposed such a design but lost out to Mr. Gehry.
 The Rouse Company, the developer of the mall, ''was an East Coast firm, and they always put roofs on shopping centers because it snows there,'' said Mr. Jerde, who also designed Horton Plaza in San Diego. Horton Plaza, which opened five years after Santa Monica Place, is a multilevel shopping center without a roof.
 Mr. Gehry declined to be interviewed about the redevelopment plans, but Mr. Jerde said he was not likely to be upset about them. ''This was a client-conceived building,'' Mr. Jerde said. The mall was extensively remodeled once before, in 1990.
 This is not the first time a Gehry building has encountered a wrecking ball. Last year, the University of California, Irvine, tore down a two-story building designed by Mr. Gehry, saying it was too small for the campus's needs.
 But Mr. Agle said the city, which owns the parking structures adjacent to Santa Monica Place, was likely to retain one distinctive feature of the mall: a mesh sign, now obscured by ficus trees, that recalls Mr. Gehry's penchant early in his career for working with ordinary materials. 
 Mr. Jerde said the sign was a ''perfect remnant of Frank's chain-link aesthetic.'' The architecture firm Pugh & Scarpa will remodel the facades of the parking structures, Mr. Agle said. 
 With the mall redevelopment about to begin, Ms. Gordon said the Santa Monica coalition was happy with Macerich's plan. ''We think that's what residents want -- an intelligent redevelopment of an existing building,'' she said. ''Big new commercial developments don't work for Santa Monica anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Santa Monica Place, left, was designed by Frank Gehry as an enclosed mall. After redevelopment, the mall, as depicted above, will be open-air and more closely tied to an adjacent pedestrian shopping strip. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MACERICH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



149 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1149 words

PERSON: Maharishi Mahesh Yogi 

HEADLINE: Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, a Guide On the Beatles' Spiritual Path, Dies

BYLINE: By LILY KOPPEL

 BODY:
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who introduced transcendental meditation to the West and gained fame in the 1960s as the spiritual guru to the Beatles, died Tuesday at his home and headquarters in Vlodrop, the Netherlands. He is believed to have been in his 90s. Steven Yellin, a spokesman for the organization, confirmed the Maharishi's death but did not give a cause. 
 On Jan. 11, the Maharishi announced that his public work was finished and that he would use his remaining time to complete a long-running series of published commentaries on the Veda, the oldest sacred Hindu text.
 The Maharishi was both an entrepreneur and a monk, a spiritual man who sought a world stage from which to espouse the joys of inner happiness. His critics called his organization a cult business enterprise. And in the press, in the 1960s and '70s, he was often dismissed as a hippie mystic, the ''Giggling Guru,'' recognizable in the familiar image of him laughing, sitting cross-legged in a lotus position on a deerskin, wearing a white silk dhoti with a garland of flowers around his neck beneath an oily, scraggly beard. 
 In Hindi, ''maha'' means great, and ''rishi'' means seer. ''Maharishi'' is a title traditionally bestowed on Brahmins. Critics of the yogi say he presented himself with the name, which he was ineligible for because he was from a lower caste. 
 The Maharishi originated the transcendental meditation movement in 1957 and brought it to the United States in 1959. Known as TM, a trademark, the technique consists of closing one's eyes twice a day for 20 minutes while silently repeating a mantra to gain deep relaxation, eliminate stress, promote good health and attain clear thinking and inner fulfillment. Classes now cost $2,500 for a five-day session. 
 The TM movement was a founding influence on what has grown into a multibillion-dollar self-help industry, and many people practice similar forms of meditation that have no connection to the Maharishi's movement.
 Over the years since TM became popular, many scientists have found physical and mental benefits from mediation in general and transcendental meditation in particular, especially in reducing stress-related ailments.
 Since the technique's inception in 1955, the organization says, it has been used to train more than 40,000 teachers, taught more than five million people, opened thousands of teaching centers and founded hundreds of schools, colleges and universities. 
 In the United States, the organization values its assets at about $300 million, with its base in Fairfield, Iowa, where it operates a university, the Maharishi University of Management. In 2001, disciples of the movement incorporated their own town, Maharishi Vedic City, a few miles north of Fairfield. 
 Last March, a branch of the organization, Global Financial Capital of New York, moved into new headquarters it bought in Lower Manhattan.
 The visibility and popularity of the organization can largely be attributed to the Beatles. In 1968, the band, with great publicity, began studying with the Maharishi at his Himalayan retreat, or ashram, in Rishikesh, in northern India. They went with their wives, the folk singer Donovan, the singer Mike Love, of the Beach Boys, the actress Mia Farrow and Ms. Farrow's sister Prudence. 
 They left in the wake of rumors of sexual improprieties by the Maharishi, an avowed celibate, though no sexual-misconduct suits were filed and some of the participants later denied that anything untoward had occurred. 
 Nevertheless, public interest in the movement had been aroused in the West, and it continued to grow in the 1970s as the Maharishi took his movement around the world and as its techniques gained respectability in the medical world.
 Later in life, the Maharishi refused to discuss the Beatles. Another one of his disciples was the Indian spiritualist Deepak Chopra, who was a friend of the former Beatle George Harrison and who promotes his own teachings based on traditional Indian Ayurvedic medicine and meditation. 
 The Maharishi's movement began losing followers the late 1970s, as people were put off by the organization's promotion of a more advanced form of TM called Yogic Flying, in which practitioners try to summon a surge of energy to physically lift themselves off the ground. They have never gone beyond the initial stage of flying, described as ''frog hops.'' 
 Mahesh Prasad Varma was born near the central Indian town of Jabalpur, into a scribe caste family. Called Mahesh, he studied physics at Allahabad University and for the next 13 years became a student and secretary to a holy man, Swami Brahmananda Saraswati, who the young disciple Mahesh called Guru Dev.
 ''Right from the beginning the whole purpose was to breathe in his breath,'' the Maharishi wrote in his ''Thirty Years Around the World: Dawn of the Age of Enlightenment,'' published in 1986. ''This was my ideal. The whole purpose was just to assume myself with Guru Dev.''
 After the death of his master in 1953, Mahesh went into seclusion in the Himalayan foothills. He emerged two years later and began teaching a system of belief, which grew into the worldwide TM movement.
 ''It would appear that Maharishi cobbled together his teaching after his master died, when he found himself unemployed and out-of-grace with the ashram,'' said Paul Mason, a critic of the Maharishi and the author of a biography, ''The Maharishi: The Biography of the Man Who Gave Transcendental Meditation to the World.'' ''He reinvented himself and became a 'maharishi' and wanted to be seen as a messiah.''
 Since 1990, the Maharishi had lived in Vlodrop with about 50 of his adherents, including his ''minister of science and technology,'' John Hagelin, a Harvard-educated physicist, who is expected to oversee the organization in the United States. 
 Late in life, the Maharishi tried to breathe new life into TM, establishing in 2000 his ''Global Country of World Peace,'' with the goals of preventing war, eradicating poverty and promoting environmental sustainability. One effort tried to reach young people across the United States with the support of celebrities like Donovan and the filmmaker David Lynch, who went on a speaking tour of colleges to promote the cause.
 The Maharishi also sought to rebuild the world according to Vedic principals. He called for the demolition of all toxic buildings and unhealthy urban environments, even the demolition of historic landmarks if they were not built according to ''Vedic architecture in harmony with Natural Law.'' The Maharishi contended that the White House was wrongly situated. He said that a more suitable location for the capital of the United States was the small town of Smith Center, Kan. 
 In the last years of his life he rarely met with anyone, even his ministers, face-to-face, preferring to speak with followers almost exclusively by closed-circuit television.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Feb. 6 about Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who introduced transcendental meditation to the West and gained fame as the spiritual guru to the Beatles, described incorrectly those who may bear the title of Maharishi, Hindi for ''great seer,'' and misstated his own eligibility for it. The title may be bestowed on people of any caste, not only Brahmins. He was not ineligible because he was from a lower caste.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Maharishi in 2006 during a video news conference from his headquarters in the Netherlands, where he moved in 1990. An Indian guru who taught the West a form of meditation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERMAN WOUTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Beatles joined the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, center, in 1967 for a weekend of meditation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); MEDITATION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CULTS & SECTS (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



150 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: No Voting Decision Can Close This Wound

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail:dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Late in the afternoon, the door swung open at 602 West 180th Street, and out came a husky man in a baseball cap and jeans, standing on the steps of his building, a captain of the sidewalk. For a long moment, he just stared into the distance of the familiar. Barbershop next door. Income tax place across the street. Neighbors, waving hello. His name is Julio Cesar Lora, and he was waiting to be asked about the one subject few people mentioned.
 Along 180th Street in Washington Heights, people spoke about what drove their votes. 
 ''The health care for the poor people and the old people, and better jobs,'' Daysi DeLaCruz, 37, a cook, said. ''Also, about the immigration -- if you're not a criminal, you don't do anything with drugs and you work, they should give them papers. And the rent, the cost of living.''
 Al Wilson, shepherding a group of Clinton canvassers, said: ''Everyone is saying it's all about daily needs. A lot of them don't have health care.''
 The war?
 ''Not very much,'' Mr. Wilson said.
 A dozen people said the same things. No one, however, spoke for Julio Cesar Lora, who had gone to vote at the 179th Street bus station in the morning but was sent to another polling place, on St. Nicholas Avenue. There, he was told to go somewhere else. He took a break, and emerged late in the afternoon for his third try. The topic of war is not a daily need for him, but a weight he cannot shed. 
 Super Tuesday also happened to be the fifth anniversary of a speech by Colin Powell to the United Nations Security Council, with George Tenet, then the director of central intelligence, seated at his shoulder.
 ''There can be no doubt that Saddam Hussein has biological weapons and the capability to produce more, many more,'' Mr. Powell, then secretary of state, told the Security Council. He was dead wrong. The invasion of Iraq began in March, and five years later, no biological weapons have been found, no nuclear weapons machinery, no mobile death laboratories; also, no links to the attacks of Sept. 11, a claim that was tucked into the case for war by everyone from President Bush to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 The war grinds on, out of sight, out of earshot. 
 ''My first reason for voting is that it is about time to change,'' Mr. Lora said. ''About time to see if we bring back our young people from Iraq.''
 Mr. Lora, 58, the superintendent of his building, also spoke about the shuddering economy, but returned to the subject of galloping amnesia. 
 ''You see that picture?'' he said, pointing to a velvet-roped memorial attached to the building's wall. ''That is my son.''
 Staff Sgt. Riayan Tejeda of the Marines had grown up on the block, raised by his mother, Rafaela Lora, and his stepfather, Mr. Lora. He was one of the first from New York City to die in the war, on April 11, 2003, after the Iraq government had been routed. 
 ''That was a Saturday,'' Mr. Lora said. ''The day before, we hadn't heard nothing, we were worried. I went to the Marine recruiting center on 181st Street, where he enlisted. They told me, 'don't worry about it. Only if you see two marines coming to your house, then he is hurt or killed.' ''
 The next morning, his wife was looking out the window onto 180th Street. A car pulled into a spot across the street.
 ''12:45 in the afternoon,'' Mr. Lora said. ''That meter, right there. My wife said, 'Uh oh.' I said, 'Maybe they're going someplace else.' She said, 'No, they're coming here.' ''
 The two marines buzzed from the vestibule. Julio and Rafaela were frozen for the eternity it took them to climb five flights. They knocked. ''My wife opened it, right away she said, 'He got killed.' The guy nodded, he said, 'yes.' '' He was 25.
 That early funeral included politicians and a cardinal. Tens of thousands of Americans and Iraqis later, the war has lost its causes, and its deaths have loosened their command on public observance.
 The mother still weeps. Mr. Lora cannot leave her side for long. Sergeant Tejeda, born in the Dominican Republic, was given citizenship posthumously; the mother declined, feeling that her son had already made her a citizen.
 The street corner has been named for him; so has the post office. ''We are very glad he is honored, we got the name, we got everything, but we don't got him,'' Mr. Lora said. ''It seems like people forget.''
 Without parsing any promises about Iraq, he would vote, he said, for Hillary Clinton, ''for a better life, for a change,'' but had no expectation that his house could ever be made whole. ''Sometimes we think -- something's wrong, he's alive, he's going to come back,'' Mr. Lora said. ''Then time goes by, and he doesn't come back. It's like the feeling of being alone in the middle of the sea. No place to go. No one else there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A memorial to Staff Sgt. Riayan Tejeda of the Marines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (60%); IMMIGRATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



151 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Takes Steps to Recognize Minorities' Role in Shaping Region

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Gray and green may be the colors most associated with this forward-focused city, but it has a history in other tones, too. Chinese immigrants helped build railroads, only to be driven out later. Japanese residents were forced into internment camps during World War II. Blacks surged into the city after the war for work. Hispanics are the fastest-growing group.
 This year, two new museums and a new traditional gate marking the city's Chinatown will be completed, formally acknowledging the role minority groups have played in shaping Seattle and the region -- even as those roles are changing. The new touchstones will meet dueling misperceptions: that the city has had a bland racial past and that tolerance and unity are among the local natural resources. 
 ''If it's a nice place, it's not because it's always been a nice place,'' said James N. Gregory, director of the Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project at the University of Washington. ''It's because people fought like hell to make things better. It's kind of an annoying local mythology: 'Oh, Seattle doesn't have problems. It doesn't have racial problems. That's just the South.' ''
 In fact, the locations of the new museums -- the Northwest African American Museum at the edge of the Central District and the newly expanded Wing Luke Asian Museum in what is now called the International District -- are directly linked to the city's troubled racial history. The neighborhoods became concentrated with minorities beginning in the 19th century because discriminatory housing policies prevented Asians, blacks and other groups from living elsewhere.
 Now, however, as efforts are made to preserve the past in some of the city's historic minority neighborhoods, crossing boundaries is the constant theme. The African-American museum is opening next month in a century-old school at a time when the black population is declining in Seattle but growing in the suburbs, echoing trends in other cities. Asians, too, are moving to the suburbs.
 The black population, which has dropped to 8 percent of the city population from 10 percent in 1990, was once almost entirely American-born, worked in domestic or industrial jobs and mostly lived in the Central District. Now, one of the museum's coming exhibits will focus on the increase of East African immigrants in the region. Big companies like Boeing have recruited young engineers from black colleges in the South. 
 Felicia Kline, president of the Seattle Urban League Young Professionals (but a resident of Renton, a suburb), said that when black newcomers asked her for advice on where to live, their questions were about affordability and traffic, ''not about 'Oh, I need to be around black people.' ''
 Some neighborhoods rich with ethnic cultural history have been gentrified or overrun with condominiums. Others have declined economically. Historians say geographic anchors are less obvious now that immigrants and minorities are less defined by place. 
 This spring, the Wing Luke museum, named for the first Asian-American elected to public office in the Northwest, will reopen after a major expansion into a historic building in the Chinatown section of the International District. The move comes as the Asian population, which makes up 13 percent of both the city and King County, has also been leveling off in the city but increasing in the suburbs.
 This Saturday, the new Chinatown gate will be formally opened, more than half a century after it was conceived and at a time when many well-established residents of Chinese descent return to Chinatown mostly just for dinner, and sometimes warily, because of an increase in crime and panhandling. 
 ''When it turns dark people don't want to go down there,'' said Tuck Eng, 74, who grew up in Chinatown, became a Boeing engineer and has led the effort to build the new gate. ''We're trying to change that.'' 
 Chinatown was built on fill that was hauled in to stabilize the shore of Puget Sound. Workers installing the pillars for the gate had to drill down 65 feet before they hit solid dirt, then an additional 20 feet to create a foundation. The Central District is on a hill that once was a muddy skid road where fresh-cut evergreens were dragged down to the waterfront.
 It has been more than a quarter-century since blacks first proposed building a museum in the old brick Colman School. For a period in the 1980s, activists effectively took over the building after the school district closed it and demanded that the building be dedicated to black culture.
 Back then, a surge in the black population that began in the 1940s was expected to continue with the growth of manufacturing jobs in Seattle. Now only about 46,000 of the 105,000 blacks in King County live in Seattle, and blacks are no longer a majority in the Central District.
 ''I've argued that what black Seattle was trying to do, and is trying to do to this day, was come to grips with the fact that it's no longer a spatial community,'' said Quintard Taylor, a professor at the University of Washington who has written a history of blacks in the city and runs a Web site, blackpast.org. 
 The Urban League, which eventually bought the Colman School, is confronting the community issue directly. On the two floors above the exhibition space, it has created 36 apartments that will be rented to people who earn 60 percent or less of the local median income. About half of the renters so far are black.
 Jennifer Hopkins moved in last week. Ms. Hopkins, 27, is black and originally from Durham, N.C., where she said the black community was more cohesive. In her spare time, she volunteers at a nearby senior center that serves mostly black residents who used to live in the Central District but now often come in from suburbs like Kent or Renton to play pinochle or attend fitness classes with old friends. 
 She said one of the reasons she moved into the new apartments was to better connect with blacks in the city.
 ''I'm just hoping that more people of color move in,'' Ms. Hopkins said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Hopkins, 27, will pay $831 for a Seattle apartment in the former Colman School, which will also house the Northwest African American Museum. A view of the school building and grounds with Seattle in the background.
 Tuck Eng, 74, grew up in Chinatown and led the effort to build the gate shown behind him.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SUBURBS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); CITIES (73%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



152 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MCENTEE, WARREN

 BODY:
 McENTEE--Warren, of La Palma, California, and Garden City, New York, went to his eternal home on February 3, 2008. He was 82. Born and raised in Garden City, New York, Warren received a B.A. from Wesleyan University and graduated with an M.B.A. from New York University, while working at the municipal bond firm on Wall Street, since 1951, that his father had co-founded in 1932. His memberships included: Sons of the American Revolution, New York's Economic Club, The University Club of New York and his local church club, in the summer colony of Point O'Woods, New York. Warren's civic activities included having served on his local board of education for six years, president and treasurer of his local property owners association and treasurer of his summer home's association and Trustee and Director of Development at the historical Fraunces Tavern Museum in New York City. 
He is survived by his wife of 59 years, a daughter and a son, three grandchildren and a sister residing in Louisiana. Visitation will be held at Forest Lawn Memorial Park on Lincoln Ave, in Cypress, on Wednesday, February 6, 2008 from 10:00am to 9:00pm with the service planned for 2:30pm on Thursday at Hope Chapel, Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Cypress, California. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that contributions be made to the Cathedral of the Incarnation, 50 Cathedral Ave, Garden City, New York 11530. Please phone: 516-746-2955. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BONDS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



153 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Disney Presents an Upbeat Outlook Despite Economy's Troubles

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company, reporting fiscal first-quarter results, sought to reassure investors that the weakening economy was not affecting television advertising sales or its robust theme park business. 
 Because Disney's theme parks, a $10 billion annual business, have faltered during previous recessions, investors and the press have been scrutinizing their performance for clues about the broader health of the United States economy. 
 Last week, a Citigroup analyst downgraded Disney to a sell rating, citing potential weakness in the theme parks, but his report prompted other analysts to weigh in with the opposite view.
 ''We aren't going to forecast the economy,'' said Thomas O. Staggs, Disney's chief financial officer, in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday. He said that room reservations at Disney's domestic resorts are running ''modestly ahead'' through the summer compared with the same time last year. He added, ''The ad market strength has continued into our second quarter.''
 The comments and quarterly results, released after the market's close, sent shares up about 5 percent in after-hours trading.
 For the first fiscal quarter, which ended on Dec. 29, Disney reported net income of $1.25 billion, or 63 cents a share, a 27 percent decline from $1.68 billion, or 79 cents a share, a year earlier. Last year's results were helped by several one-time gains, including the sale of interests in Us Weekly and the E Entertainment cable channel.
 Revenue rose 9 percent, to $10.45 billion, led by gains in advertising revenue at ABC and ESPN.
 Disney, based in Burbank, Calif., has been riding strong results in its four core businesses -- television, movies, theme parks and consumer products -- since 2004. With the exception of the movie studio, where results ebb and flow depending on which titles are released on DVD, that strength continued.
 Operating profit at ABC soared 30 percent, to $322 million, because of higher prime-time advertising revenue, though Disney said the results were dented somewhat by lower ratings. The company's cable networks recorded a 27 percent increase in operating profit, to $586 million. 
 At the theme parks, operating profit climbed 25 percent, to $505 million, driven by increases in ticket prices and higher food and merchandise spending. Mr. Staggs said that the struggling Hong Kong resort perked up from a Halloween promotion, but cautioned that recent storms could hurt attendance during the crucial Chinese New Year period.
 Robust sales of ''Hannah Montana'' clothing and ''High School Musical'' merchandise contributed to a 38 percent rise in operating profit at the consumer products division.
 Disney has been trying to convince Wall Street that it stands apart from other media companies because of its ability to profit from its brands and properties across multiple business lines, a message the company's chief executive, Robert A. Iger, hammered home on Tuesday.
 ''These results validate our strategic focus,'' he said. Pointing out the various ways in which Disney is continuing to mine franchises like ''Toy Story,'' Mr. Iger said, ''We can market far more effectively and efficiently than our competitors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Guests visiting the Magic Kingdom theme park in Lake Buena Vista, Fla. Theme park reservations remain strong, Disney said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); TICKET SALES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (63%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (98%); E! ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (98%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (98%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (98%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



154 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Asia Stocks Follow Dow's Decline; Europe Is Steady

BYLINE: By MARTIN FOSTER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Asian markets slumped Wednesday amid fears that shrinking consumption in the United States could harm exporters, and possibly affect broader Asian economic factors. But European markets closed higher.
 The concerns about exporters reinforce the widely held view that the fortunes of Asian economies remain closely tied to the United States, and despite the rise of a new middle class with spending power in countries like China and India, Asian economies have not completely decoupled from the world's biggest economy.
 ''The idea that Asian economies have decoupled from the U.S. is nonsense,'' Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research in Tokyo said. ''If you suggested that to a serious economist he or she would laugh at you.'' 
 The Nikkei average was down 4.7 percent or 646.26 points to end at 13,099.24. The broader Topix lost 4.2 percent to close at 1,298.41.
 The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong closed 5.4 percent down in a half-day trading session before the Lunar New Year holidays. Japanese stocks fell as did shares in Australia, Singapore and India.
 Trading was thinner than usual, with markets in South Korea, Taiwan, and mainland China already closed for the rest of the week for the Lunar New Year holiday.
 The Hang Seng index fell as much as 6.15 percent before finishing at 23,469.46, down 1,339.24 points. The China Enterprises index of H-shares, or Hong Kong-listed shares of mainland Chinese companies, plunged 6.93 percent to 13,067.11.
 The Strait Times index in Singapore slumped 3.5 percent to close at 2,932.34 in half-day trading. The MSCI measure of Asian stocks excluding Japan fell 1 percent.
 In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 index lost 2.2 percent, hurt by a 5.6 percent decline in BHP Billiton. Rio was up 1.6 percent, but analysts were skeptical the bid would be successful.
 In London, the FTSE 100 index gained 0.1 percent, and the pan-European DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index was up 1.2 percent. In Frankfurt the DAX was up 1.2 percent, and in Paris, the CAC 40 ticked about 0.8 percent higher.
 Rate decisions by the European Central Bank and the Bank of England are due on Thursday.
 Asian exporters are likely to be hit by slumping U.S. consumption reflected in the January declines in the American service sector that was reported Tuesday by the Institute for Supply Management. The index dipped below a boom/bust line of 50 to a record 44.6, compared to a revised reading of 54.4 in December.
 That pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average down by 370.03 points, or 2.9 percent, to 12,265.13.
 ''The likelihood of a slowdown in U.S. consumption will feed into a deceleration in exports from the countries of North Asia, including Japan and China, of between 20 percent and 25 percent,'' said Glenn Maguire, the Asia-Pacific chief economist at Societe Generale, based in Hong Kong. ''The economies of Southern Asia could see a slowdown in exports of as much as 30 percent to 35 percent.
 ''The key is how long the U.S consumer will be impaired,'' Maguire said in Tokyo.
 Maguire said he expected U.S. consumption to be subdued through the first half of the calendar year.
 That will affect the Chinese economy, said Yutaka Harada, chief economist at Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo. He said China has closely tracked economic events in the United States since the end of 2005, following a period between 2003 and 2005 when the two economies were not so closely tied together.
 Harada said nearly 50 percent of the Chinese gross domestic product relies on trade and any slow down in demand from U.S. consumers would affect the broader Chinese economy.
 He estimates that slowing U.S. economic activity could rein in Chinese economic growth by 0.5 percent to 1 percent, but he expects the Chinese economy to grow by about 10 percent this year.
 Maguire has lowered his Chinese economic growth forecast to 9.4 percent from 11.4 percent.
 Although international trade makes up an estimated 17 percent to 18 percent of the Japanese economy, the world's second largest economy is unlikely to escape the effect of tighter U.S. purse strings. Japan provides many of the parts and intermediate goods that are incorporated into products exported to the U.S. consumer from countries like Taiwan, and South Korea.
 The Japanese economy may grow only 1.1 percent in the year to December 31, Ryutaro Kono, chief economist at BNP Paribas Tokyo said. 'The Institute for Supply Management's ''number is telling us how bad things really are'' in the United States.
 Kono forecasts that U.S. economic growth could be as low as 1.3 percent this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%)

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (81%); BIBLT (JSE) (81%); BBL (NYSE) (81%); PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (81%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (81%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) ASIA (96%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (88%); AUSTRALIA (87%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



155 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: From Prince Andrew, Critical Words for U.S. on Iraq

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
While Prince Andrew declares himself a fan of the United States -- and his cellphone ring tone comes from the American TV drama ''24'' -- the man who is fourth in line to the British throne has some critical words for America's Iraq policy and thinks that Washington should have listened to advice from London.
 In a rare Buckingham Palace interview ahead of his departure Tuesday for a 10-day U.S. trip to support British business, the prince described the United States as Britain's No. 1 ally but conceded that relations were in a trough. There are, he added, ''occasions when people in the U.K. would wish that those in responsible positions in the U.S. might listen and learn from our experiences.'' 
 The prince has a full-time role as a trade envoy for Britain but for 22 years he was in the Royal Navy, serving as a helicopter pilot during the Falklands conflict, and Iraq is a preoccupation.
 Because of its imperial history, Britain has experienced much of what the United States is going through, Prince Andrew said.
 ''If you are looking at colonialism, if you are looking at operations on an international scale, if you are looking at understanding each other's culture, understanding how to operate in a military insurgency campaign -- we have been through them all,'' he said. ''We've won some, lost some, drawn some. The fact is there is quite a lot of experience over here which is valid and should be listened to.''
 Prince Andrew's view that post-invasion chaos in Iraq could have been avoided if President Bush's administration had listened more is widely shared in Britain. Geoff Hoon, the former British defense secretary, has said that British views on Iraq were ignored in the decisions to outlaw the Baath Party and dissolve the Iraqi military.
 The fallout from Iraq has fueled, the prince argues, ''healthy skepticism'' toward what is said in Washington, and a feeling of ''why didn't anyone listen to what was said and the advice that was given.''
 After all, British views had been sought -- ''it's not as if we had been forcing that across the Atlantic.''
 The prince, 47, says it was an adjustment to go from a life in the navy to being a figurehead for business as special representative for international trade and investment, the role he took on in 2001. His office has reminders of his former life, including paintings of 19th-century naval scenes.
 ''I was the glamorous one dressed in a uniform who flew his helicopter and I was there to defend, to be an instrument of Her Majesty's government whenever and wherever they so chose. And I thought it was frightfully glamorous,'' he said.
 He added, ''When you then come out and go into the business world, actually you realize that the real people who are actually making the United Kingdom what it is are the people who are doing business.''
 The Falklands War in 1982 was a formative experience and one that, he says, changed him ''out of all recognition'' and left ''a different view of life.'' Since then he has been to Argentina, visited the country's navy and found himself at a memorial to the Belgrano, an Argentine warship sunk by the British that resulted in the loss of 368 lives.
 Prince Andrew says he was very fortunate to marry Sarah Ferguson; they divorced in 1996 after their 10-year marriage ''didn't go quite according to plan.'' The prince speaks warmly of his ex-wife and praises her success in the United States, where her weight-loss campaigning and other activities are reported to have cleared her substantial debts.
 ''We have managed to work together to bring our children up in a way that few others have been able to do and I am extremely grateful to be able to do that,'' he said.
 Though periodically portrayed by the British tabloids as a playboy, Prince Andrew is regarded as the most affable of the queen's children.
 The only faint signs of irritation in the interview last week appeared when asked about his travel expenses, which have been criticized by the British media. They are, he says, a ''little tiny spot in the ocean by comparison to many people.''
 The trauma that followed the 1997 death of Diana, Princess of Wales, underlined the need for the British royal family to modernize, and Prince Andrew's transformation into a trade envoy seems part of that process.
 His role involves helping small British businesses make the right contacts, meeting influential trade partners, sometimes lobbying on specific contracts and selling the merits of his country as a location for investment. Britain, he says, is ''probably the most open free market economy in the world.'' That is a message he will carry to Florida, California, Georgia and New York.
 Since he does not close deals, it is difficult to quantify the value of his work. But Sir Digby Jones, the British minister for trade promotion who will accompany him, describes the prince as very effective.
 ''He gets in to see people because he is the son of the queen. The U.K. would be foolish not to use this.''
 Ironically, it falls to a member of the royal family to dispel the image of Britain as an old-fashioned, class-ridden, society. British businesses are, Prince Andrew says, ''a good deal more discreet -- they're not as brash as perhaps U.S. companies are -- so you might not see the outward vestiges of entrepreneurialism that is actually going on here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); NAVIES (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); HELICOPTERS (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%)

PERSON: PRINCE ANDREW, DUKE OF YORK (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAQ (94%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



156 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats to Push Expanded Stimulus Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said Tuesday that Democrats were prepared to force a showdown with Republicans over a $204 billion economic stimulus package and would not bow to pressure to simply make modest changes to a less expensive plan that was approved by the House last week.
 ''We should go for the whole package,'' Mr. Reid said at a news conference. He waved off assertions by some Republicans that he was bluffing. ''Wait until we have this vote, and they'll find out,'' he said. ''I am not much of a bluffer.'' 
 Mr. Reid is hoping to strong-arm the Republicans into adopting the larger package favored by most Democrats and some moderate Republicans, or to compel them to vote against important provisions. That could prove politically costly in the fall elections. 
 Mr. Reid's plan is to deny Republicans a chance to vote on a package including some, but not all, of what the Democrats are trying to add to the plan that passed the House in January.
 His approach reflects increasing confidence among Democrats that recent news of worsening unemployment and growing fears of a recession have made it safe to push hard for their expanded package. But some Republicans said that the Democrats had miscalculated and risked being seen as playing politics with the economy. 
 ''He doesn't have the votes,'' Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, the most senior Republican, said about Mr. Reid. ''He knows it, and we shouldn't be fooling around like this.'' 
 The House proposal, worked out in a deal with the White House, is a more streamlined combination of tax rebates or payments for individuals and families and tax incentives for businesses. But more than 20 million Americans living on Social Security and more than 250,000 disabled veterans would not qualify under that plan. 
 The proposal favored by Senate Democrats would give payments to those living on Social Security and the disabled veterans, but it contains other provisions that many Republicans say are too costly and should not be part of the stimulus plan, including an extension of unemployment benefits and tax incentives for the coal industry. 
 The Senate plan would cost about $204 billion over two years, roughly $40 billion more than the House version. In recent days, Mr. Reid added a $1 billion increase in home-energy subsidies for low-income families -- a move to expand a program Democrats support but also to press Republicans in states with high heating costs, among them Senators John E. Sununu and Judd Gregg of New Hampshire and Norm Coleman of Minnesota. 
 Mr. Sununu and Mr. Coleman are both up for re-election. 
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, has indicated he would like to adopt the House plan with two changes -- the inclusion of those on Social Security and veterans, and a stipulation that illegal immigrant workers could not receive payments. He said Tuesday that he would still seek that. 
 Last week, Mr. Reid and other Democratic leaders had said they would hold a vote on just such a proposal, making it a fallback option. But on Monday he said he would allow votes only on the full Senate package and the original House plan with no changes. 
 ''They are going to vote on this package,'' he said. ''The American people are watching.'' 
 But only 3 of 10 Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee voted to expand the House package last week, suggesting Democrats would fall short of the 60 votes needed. 
 Democrats control the Senate 51 to 49, and Mr. Reid was being careful to schedule a vote on a day when the two Democratic senators running for president could return to Washington. 
 Though Democrats predicted they could persuade more Republicans, several Republican Senate aides said the Democrats were at least two votes short. 
 Aides to Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said he had expressed his support for the House stimulus package but had not decided how to vote.
 Some Democrats had suggested that a tax incentive in the Senate package, allowing businesses to deduct losses from up to five years ago, rather than just two years in current law, would help the timber industry and persuade Alaska's two Republican senators. Mr. Stevens rejected that. 
 ''I have given them no reason to think that,'' he said. 
 Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said he would oppose both plans because they would add to the deficit and do little for the economy. ''This is to win public favor in an election year,'' he said. 
 But some moderate Republicans support the larger stimulus plan and are clearly uncomfortable with the current fight. 
 ''The Senate finance package is far more preferable,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, adding that it would help people in her state. ''You are out there on a daily basis struggling to make ends meet, with skyrocketing energy prices, home heating oil, gasoline, every dollar counts, and that's what this legislation is about.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader from Nevada, said his party would push for a stimulus plan with more provisions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS COOK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (86%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); APPROVALS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (91%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); TED STEVENS (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



157 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-12
 U.S. Official Says Al Qaeda More Able to Strike in U.S.
 Al Qaeda is gaining in strength from its refuge in Pakistan and is steadily improving its ability to recruit, train and position operatives capable of carrying out attacks inside the United States, the director of national intelligence told a Senate panel. A1
 Hamas Claims Mall Bombing 
 Israel appeared to face a heightened threat from Palestinian suicide bombings after the military wing of Hamas officially claimed responsibility for a lethal blast the day before at a shopping center in the town of Dimona.A10
 Rebellion in Chad Faltering 
 A rebellion aimed at toppling Chad's president appeared to falter as France declared that it would intervene to protect the Chadian government if called upon, and a Darfur rebel group said it had sent troops to help bolster the president. A8
 Serbia Split on Ties to Europe
 Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica of Serbia, left, attacked plans by his coalition partners to sign an agreement on closer ties with the European Union.A4
 Kenya Toll Surpasses 1,000
 The death toll in the aftermath of Kenya's flawed elections surpassed 1,000 people as negotiations entered a critical stage in the effort to end the country's violent political crisis. A8
 NATIONALA13-15; P1-8 
 Clinton and Obama Trade Primary Victories
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Barack Obama carved up the Northeast, South and Midwest in a huge presidential primary, with Mrs. Clinton winning New Jersey, Tennessee and Oklahoma and Mr. Obama taking Connecticut, Georgia and Minnesota. They also each carried their home states of New York and Illinois. A1 
 Senator John McCain of Arizona racked up impressive primary victories in the delegate-rich states of New York, Illinois, Arizona and New Jersey, as Mike Huckabee revived his candidacy by capturing several southern states. A1 
 Candidates Look Ahead
 With the coast-to-coast frenzy of voting behind them, the candidates can now look forward to a comparatively relaxed primary and caucus schedule between now and the next big round of nominating contests. P5 
 Court Reviews on Detainees
 Two months after the Supreme Court heard arguments in a case on the rights of the Guantanamo detainees, a development has scrambled the outlook for a resolution. Cases that have been proceeding on separate judicial tracks may be about to converge. A13 
 Minorities' Impact on Seattle
 Two museums and a traditional gate marking Seattle's Chinatown will be completed, formally acknowledging the roles minority groups have played in shaping the city and the region. A13 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA18-19
 Danbury Police to Help Round Up Illegal Workers
 Mayor Mark D. Boughton of Danbury, Conn., and the Common Council are expected to approve a plan that would require the local police to work with the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency in rounding up workers who are in the country illegally.A18 
 Warhol Work in Dispute
 Jason Beltrez, an unemployed art novice who says he purchased an Andy Warhol dollar-sign painting for $180 at a New Jersey flea market, is fighting a lawsuit brought by the Martin Lawrence Galleries in SoHo, which claims that the painting was stolen from its walls in 1998.A19 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10 
 A Nose-Dive on Wall St.
 Stocks plummeted on Wall Street after a business survey provided another strong signal that the United States might be in the early stages of a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 370 points as the market had its worst day in nearly a year. C1 
 Google Shouts a War Cry
 As Google, led by its chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, takes fast, forceful action to scuttle Microsoft's bid for Yahoo, experts say that the bold attempt to block the deal could be a signal of a formal war brewing between Microsoft and Google. C1 
 Today in BusinessC2 
 OBITUARIESC10-11
 Maharishi Mahesh Yogi
 The monk who introduced transcendental meditation to the West and gained fame as the spiritual guru to the Beatles, he was believed to be in his 90s. 
 EDITORIALA18-19
 Editorials: Divided they run; who's the 800-pound gorilla; Serbia votes for the future; the next step to safety.
 Column: Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HAMAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); MAYORS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ELECTION FRAUD (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); APPEALS (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); APPROVALS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); HAMAS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHAD (93%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KENYA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



158 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; BATTLEGROUNDS KEY RACES FOR THE REPUBLICANS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: With Issues of War and Peace on Their Minds, Voters Make Choices

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER, KAREEM FAHIM, JENNIFER MEDINA, WILLIAM NEUMAN CONTRIBUTED and MICHAEL R. KAGAY

 BODY:
MASSACHUSETTS Favoring the Favorite Son
 Mitt Romney won in his home state, with both the party faithful and independents flocking to his side, according to exit polling. Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, matched Senator John McCain in attracting voters who identified themselves as moderate and took the vast majority of those who identified themselves as conservative. Mr. McCain surprised many by making a campaign stop in Boston on Sunday, where he watched the Super Bowl in a hotel lobby. Polls showed the contest tightening, and Mr. McCain told audiences that he believed he had a chance of winning the state's 43 delegates. Mr. Mc- Cain won the primary in 2000, defeating George W. Bush by nearly two to one. But Mr. Romney dismissed the 11th hour visit by Mr. Mc- Cain, saying, ''I've got a lot of friends there.'' Many observers had said that if Mr. Romney lost his home state, it would signal the end of the campaign. Although state officials had said they expected a record turnout, rain throughout the day seemed to temper that.
 CONNECTICUT Echoes of 2000 
 Mr. McCain won in Connecticut with the support of Republicans who called themselves independents, just as he had in 2000 when he beat George W. Bush by a large margin. And while a vast majority of self-described moderates flocked to Mr. McCain, as expected, he was also ahead among those who labeled themselves conservatives. Though Mr. Mc- Cain has come under attack by some conservatives for a number of his positions, most Connecticut Republicans favor legalized abortions, including Gov. M. Jodi Rell, who endorsed him last week. Mr. McCain also benefited from the support of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Democrat-turned- Independent who was re-elected in 2006. Mr. McCain was the only Republican candidate to campaign in the state, although Mr. Romney raised nearly $1.5 million from Connecticut residents. A poll last month showed that the state's Republicans believed that Mr. McCain would have the best chance of winning the general election.
 NEW YORK/NEW JERSEY The Giuliani Effect
 The prospects of Mr.McCain improved greatly in both New York and New Jersey with the withdrawal from the campaign of his friend and fellow centrist Republican Rudolph W. Giuliani. Mr. McCain, who won in both states, was already surging in the polls when the former New York City mayor pulled out of the race following the Florida primary. Mr. Giuliani threw his support behind Mr. McCain. In early exit polls in New York, 4 in 10 Republican voters cited the economy as the issue that was most important to them, and Mr. McCain won a majority of their votes. Mr. Romney won a narrow victory among voters who said that their first priority was a candidate who shared their values. In New Jersey, Mr. McCain won the support of Republicans who described themselves as moderates, while those who called themselves conservatives voted in roughly equal numbers for him and Mr. Romney, exit polls showed. On Monday, Mr. McCain swung through the state, making a stop at a fire house in Hamilton with Mr. Giuliani.
 GEORGIA Courting Conservatives
 For Republicans, Georgia carried the biggest delegate prize among the Southern states and had the third-highest delegate count over all for the day. In early exit polling, Mr. Romney and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas appeared to have split the vote among the more than two-thirds of Republican voters who identified themselves as conservative, with Mr. Huckabee drawing nearly 4 out of 10 and Mr. Romney more than a third. Polls leading up to the primary showed a high percentage of undecided voters here among Republicans, with more than one of six in one survey saying they did not know whom they would vote for. Mr. Romney hoped to make a stand against Mr. McCain among Georgia's conservative base, and Atlanta was one of his final campaign stops on Monday. The state also fit into Mr. Huckabee's strategy of focusing on the South, conservatives and evangelicals. The top vote-getter in the state wins 33 delegates, and 39 more are portioned out to the winner in each of 13 congressional districts.
 ILLINOIS A Vote for Experience
 Mr. McCain's effort to court conservative Republicans helped him win in Illinois, where nearly 4 in 10 primary voters who described themselves as conservatives said they had voted for him, according to early exit polls. Mr. Romney, who had argued that a vote for Mr. McCain represented an abandonment of the party's conservative principles, won slightly fewer votes among conservatives, the exit polls showed. Earlier polls had shown Mr. McCain with a strong lead in Illinois, a state with an open primary and 70 delegates at stake. As was the case elsewhere, Republican primary voters polled here were far less concerned about immigration than about the economy. Although Mr. Romney argued that his business career better prepared him to manage the nation's fiscal matters, voters who cited the economy as their major concern chose Mr. Mc- Cain. Overwhelmingly, voters surveyed in Illinois said that Mr. McCain was more qualified than any of his competitors to be commander in chief.
 MISSOURI Concerns About the Economy
 Early exit polls showed that Mr. McCain was doing slightly better than his main rivals in drawing support from independents, who were allowed to vote in the Republican primary here. Almost half the voters surveyed identified the economy as their top concern. But among those voters there was no clear advantage for any of the candidates, with Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney each getting the support of about a third of those voters. The winner of the popular vote here gets all 58 of the state's delegates. Mr. Romney led his Republican rivals in fund-raising in Missouri by a wide margin, taking $855,000 in individual contributions, three and a half times more than Mr. McCain and seven times more than Mr. Huckabee. Mr. Romney also had the early endorsement of Gov. Matt Blunt. Mr. Huckabee, a former governor of neighboring Arkansas, hoped to find support among Missouri's large evangelical population. Four of 10 voters who said they were looking for a candidate who shared their values supported him, according to exit polls.
 CALIFORNIA Spotlight on Immigration
 Voters in California's Republican primary, according to early exit polls, were as concerned with illegal immigration as they were with the economy, the crucial issue in many other states. Thirteen percent of voters were Hispanic, and they split their votes among Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney. Many Republican voters said illegal immigrants should be deported, and they voted for Mr. Romney over Mr. McCain by two to one. Evangelicals made up about one-third of the Republican primary voters, according to the exit polls, and a plurality of them supported Mr. Romney. He also did well among weekly churchgoers, while those who said they attended church occasionally supported Mr. McCain.Mr. McCain was seen by almost half the voters as the candidate most qualified to be commander in chief. The structure of California's delegate-rich primary, in which the winners of each congressional district receive all three of the district's delegates, prompted an intense war of strategies.
 How the Exit Polls Were Conducted
 The exit polls were based on questionnaires completed by voters on Tuesday as they left primary election locations throughout the country. The polls were conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, which consists of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results are based on responses from 508 to 1,811 primary voters at 20 to 40 randomly selected precincts in each party's primary throughout each of the 11 states analyzed by The New York Times. The 11 states were Arizona, California, Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York and Tennessee. Most were interviewed as they were exiting each site, but in Arizona, California and Tennessee the samples include some telephone interviews with early voters and absentee voters, weighted to reflect their share of the total vote. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus 3 to 6 percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who participated in each party's primary in each of the 11 states. Results based on smaller subgroups, such as views of backers of a particular candidate, have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on election day, such as the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error.
 Staff writers Russ Buettner, Kareem Fahim, Jennifer Medina and William Neuman contributed to this report, with polling analysis by Michael R. Kagay.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (73%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (76%); M JODI RELL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



159 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Public Broadcasters Prepare to Fight Federal Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
It's a familiar dance: for eight straight years, the Bush administration has proposed deep cuts in federal funds for public broadcasting, and seven times so far, Congress has restored them. But the magnitude of the proposed cuts put forth this week -- Patricia Harrison, president of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, called them ''draconian'' -- still sent public broadcasters scrambling.
 Matt Martin, general manager of KALW-FM in San Francisco, went on the air Monday night to tell listeners about the effects of the proposed budget, which would cut in half the $400 million allocated in advance by Congress for fiscal year 2009 and cut $220 million from the $420 million already planned for 2010. 
 In addition, President Bush proposed eliminating advance funds for 2011, along with any additional funds in 2009 for stations to convert to digital transmission, which is federally mandated. They are the deepest cuts yet proposed by the administration. 
 KALW relies on federal funds for just under 10 percent of its $1.6 million annual budget, but that is money ''that can make or break a lot of things we do,'' Mr. Martin said. He added that he was particularly concerned about relying on contributions to make up any potential shortfall, given the state of the economy. 
 Critics of public funds for public broadcasting have long held that educational and other public-interest programming is increasingly available elsewhere, including on cable. 
 ''The administration's proposal is consistent with the evolving role of public broadcasting in a market that has benefited from tremendous growth and diversity of programming,'' Sean Kevelighan, press secretary at the White House Office of Management and Budget, said in an e-mail message. He also said that government funds make up only 15 percent of public broadcasting revenue. 
 The administration's budget also called for cuts at the National Endowment for the Arts, but not nearly of the magnitude of those faced by public broadcasting. There the administration proposed a cut of $16.3 million -- to $128.4 million from $144.7 million. 
 Robert L. Lynch, president and chief executive of Americans for the Arts, an advocacy group, called the cuts ''senseless'' and asked Congress to restore the National Endowment for the Arts to its 1992 financing level of $176 million.
 ''After three years of minimal, but incremental, funding growth, we are sorry to see an attempt at this progress erased,'' Mr. Lynch said in a statement.
 The administration also refused, for the eighth consecutive year, to finance arts education programs. 
 By contrast, the White House requested $716.4 million for the Smithsonian Institution for fiscal year 2009, up from $682.6 million for fiscal 2008.
 This was a positive turn for the Smithsonian, which has been struggling over the last year to improve its administration and oversight amid recent scandals. 
 The appropriation provided for an additional $15 million in a ''legacy fund'' requested by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, that would become available once the Smithsonian raised $30 million. The fund would be used for renovations and repairs at the institution's various museums. 
 The proposed cuts for public broadcasting come just as local public television station executives are set to descend on Washington next week for a day of lobbying. They will be asking not just for the cut funds to be reinstated but also for an increase, which they eventually got last year, said John Lawson, president and chief executive of the Association of Public Television Stations.
 ''I'm confident we will be successful,'' he said in an interview, noting that this year for the first time, stations will be tying their pleas to ''the delivery of quantifiable services to local communities,'' in the form of early childhood education, health information and a ''recommitment to local programming, which is increasingly missing from the media marketplace.''
 But others are not so sure. Ken Stern, chief executive of National Public Radio, said in an interview that even though public broadcasters had been successful in fighting off past proposed cuts, this year could be different. ''I worry that this gets lost in a whole lot of other issues,'' he said, acknowledging that it was also ''an incredibly tight budget year.''
 He added that ''one of the shames'' is that by focusing on restoring the budget, instead of adding new funds, attention is drawn away from how public broadcasting could do even more to serve its constituencies at a time of media upheaval. 
 ''That's the conversation we should be having, and not just fighting off these paint-by-numbers cuts that the administration is proposing,'' he said.
 Mr. Martin, at KALW in San Francisco, said he was careful not to advocate what action listeners should take when he told them about the cuts. But public broadcasters are hopeful that Congress will see the same groundswell of support for their services as they did during past budget fights. The last time around, some two million citizens contacted Congress, Mr. Stern said.
 In a statement, Ms. Harrison of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which administers the federal money, noted that the proposed cuts ''would work to degrade a 40-year partnership the American people overwhelmingly support and their elected representatives in Congress have repeatedly voted to strengthen.'' 
 Robin Pogrebin contributed reporting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%)

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



160 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Give the Banks Some Credit

BYLINE: By HOWARD P. MILSTEIN. 
Howard P. Milstein is the chairman and chief executive of New York Private Bank and Trust, which owns a significant share of stock in The New York Times Company.

 BODY:
THE $145 billion economic stimulus package that President Bush is encouraging Congress to pass, with its tax refunds for individuals and tax cuts for business investments, may help relieve some of the symptoms of the country's current financial trouble, but it does not address the most important economic problem we face. The health of the American -- and indeed the global -- economy depends on having a financial system that is able to extend credit to businesses and consumers. 
 The losses that have been incurred as a result of the excesses in subprime mortgage lending will take years to work their way through the worldwide financial system, as dozens of banks act to replenish their lost capital by issuing more common stock in the public markets and trading other equity securities to sovereign wealth funds. Until the banks rebuild their capital, they will not have the wherewithal to lend money and support economic growth. If banks of all sizes could regain their capital immediately and easily, it would be a tremendous benefit to the American economy. 
 The federal government could make this happen by entering into an arrangement with American banks that hold subprime mortgages, in which homeowners typically pay a low interest rate for two or three years then face much higher payments. Here's how it would work: The government would guarantee the principal of the mortgages for 15 years. And in exchange the banks would agree to leave their ''teaser'' interest rates on those loans in effect for the entire 15 years. 
 This would instantly give the lending banks new capital. As these mortgages would be guaranteed by the Treasury, they would suddenly be assessed, on bank balance sheets, at their original value -- and a significant amount of the banks' lost capital would be restored. Plus, the banks would receive, from most of the homeowners with subprime mortgages, up to 15 years of teaser-rate payments.
 By solving the bank capital crisis immediately, this strategy would ensure that fewer families would lose their homes, that fewer neighborhoods would deteriorate because of abandoned housing and that, as a consequence, there would be less downward pressure on local real estate prices and property tax revenues. 
 Also important would be the impact on consumer confidence. Just as rising real estate prices had a positive effect on American consumers, declining real estate prices continue to undermine their confidence. Anything that helps slow the price decline by reducing the supply of housing for sale will be good for our economy. 
 Under this arrangement, American banks would have an incentive to buy back the subprime debt now being held by foreign banks and other financial institutions. American banks could buy the securities at a discount to face value (reflecting the continued low teaser rates) and then, thanks to the government guarantee, hold them as capital assessed at their full value. That, in turn, would allow the other financial institutions to reinvest in other sectors of our economy. 
 I propose this idea not because it would benefit our bank -- we own none of this troubled debt and, in recent years, have had insignificant losses from real estate lending -- but only out of concern for the health of the global financial system. This plan is a way to use our nation's strength, and not current tax dollars, to keep people in their homes and give banks the ability to resume lending. It requires only that we believe in the future of the American economy and the value of American homes 15 years from now. I do, and this is a belief our government should share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOME PRICES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



161 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Duels Obama, Takes California; McCain Surges Support Divided, Top Democrats Trade Victories

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama carved up the nation in the 22-state nominating contest on Tuesday, leaving the Democratic presidential nomination more elusive than ever. Mrs. Clinton won California, Massachusetts, New Jersey and her home state, New York, while Mr. Obama took Connecticut, Georgia, Minnesota and his base in Illinois.
 It was a night of drama as millions of Democrats cleaved sharply between two candidates offering them a historic first: The opportunity to nominate a woman or an African-American to lead their party's effort to reclaim the White House. Yet it was also a night when neither Mr. Obama nor Mrs. Clinton could decisively lay claim -- or even secure an edge -- to the nomination, assuring an electoral fight that will unfold for weeks to come.
 In remarks to their supporters in Manhattan and Chicago, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama smiled broadly but were relatively low key in their assessments of the night, as if they knew that their state-by-state successes did not add up to the grand prize of Democratic standard-bearer. Both sounded a little tired at times, already exhausted by campaigning and fund-raising, with only more of both ahead. 
 The wild race from the East Coast to the Pacific began with the first results in Georgia, then Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton traded victories about every 30 minutes. Preliminary vote figures in multiple states were close enough to spike adrenaline in the two camps as each sought an edge. 
 And throughout the night, uncertainty about the biggest delegate prize, California, vexed both campaigns. Early Wednesday, however, Mrs. Clinton solidified her lead there, providing a huge morale boost to her team from a state that has long been a cornerstone of successful Democratic campaigns.
 Missouri proved to be another story. Historically a presidential bellwether, the state was almost evenly split between the two Democrats at 1 a.m. Wednesday, with Mr. Obama leading by half of a percentage point. 
 Before California and Missouri were counted, an analysis by The Associated Press based on incomplete vote totals showed that Mrs. Clinton had won 166 delegates and Mr. Obama had won 146 at stake Tuesday. All told, Mrs. Clinton had 479 delegates and Mr. Obama had 386. Those figures are likely to change as the vote tallies are completed and delegates are awarded under complicated rules that vary from state to state.
 The results and exit polls showed formidable strengths for each candidate, with Mr. Obama gaining appeal with white voters -- particularly white men -- and Mrs. Clinton solidifying her support among Hispanics. Mrs. Clinton won Democratic primaries in states that her party rarely carries in a general election, like Arkansas -- where she served as first lady -- as well as Oklahoma and Tennessee.
 ''Tonight we are hearing the voices of people across America -- people of all ages, of all colors, of all faiths, of all walks of life,'' a broadly smiling Mrs. Clinton told supporters in Manhattan just before 11 p.m. ''Tonight, in record numbers, you voted not just to make history, but to remake America.''
 Mr. Obama, who appeared to be building momentum in recent days, held wide leads in states like Minnesota, and ran close behind her in states like New Jersey. That left him poised to pick up a hefty number of delegates, even in some states that Mrs. Clinton won. 
 ''There is one thing on this February night that we do not need the final results to know: our time has come,'' Mr. Obama said to cheers at a party in Chicago. ''Our time has come, our movement is real, and change is coming to America.''
 Because most states gave nominating delegates to both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama based on vote proportions, as opposed to winner take all, the two campaigns were predicting on Tuesday that neither candidate would have a blowout lead, setting up an intensifying race as Louisiana, Washington, Virginia, Ohio and Texas hold nominating contests over the next four weeks.
 A total of 1,678 pledged delegates were at stake in the 22 state contests on Tuesday, with 2,025 delegates needed to win the nomination.
 Exit polls showed Mr. Obama winning a majority of men in many of the states -- in some places by substantial margins -- and doing particularly well among white men, blacks and young people. The polls showed three primary bases of support for Mrs. Clinton: women, Hispanics and older voters.
 As polls closed in the East and Midwest, Clinton advisers were initially worried about New Jersey, where Mrs. Clinton had endorsements from Gov. Jon Corzine and Senator Robert Menendez, and recognition for her work after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 in neighboring New York. While she was drawing votes from 60 percent of white and Hispanic Democrats, Mr. Obama had more than 80 percent of black votes. But as returns came in, she solidified a lead.
 Mr. Obama convincingly won Georgia, with exit polls indicating that his support transcended racial lines by an even greater margin than in South Carolina, his earlier Southern primary victory.
 More than half of Democratic voters in Georgia were black, and they strongly supported Mr. Obama, according to exit polls conducted by Edison/Mitofsky for the National Election Pool of television networks and The Associated Press. Mr. Obama also received more than 4 in 10 votes from white Democrats, winning about half of white men and 40 percent of white women.
 Mr. Obama also carried Alabama, Colorado, Delaware and Idaho. In Illinois, his home state (though he was born in Honolulu and Mrs. Clinton in Chicago), he won 70 percent of men overall and two-thirds of both women overall and white men. His weakest showing was among older voters, with only half of them supporting him. He was strongly supported across income and education backgrounds.
 The Clinton campaign, meanwhile, portrayed Massachusetts as an upset victory in an e-mail statement Tuesday night, noting that Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John Kerry and Gov. Deval Patrick had endorsed Mr. Obama, who campaigned there on Monday. (Mrs. Clinton visited there twice and enjoyed a reservoir of support for her and her husband.)
 ''This is a strong victory and shows that Hillary Clinton has strength in places where Barack Obama was expected to win,'' the Clinton statement said.
 Exit polls showed that Mrs. Clinton continued to enjoy the same solid support from Hispanic voters that fueled her victory in the Nevada caucuses in mid-January. Exits polls indicated that she was receiving a majority of the Hispanic vote in all states, with Arizona being close. While most groups went for Mr. Obama in Illinois, Mrs. Clinton won about 55 percent of Hispanic women.
 Among Democrats voting on Tuesday, a majority said that they were most concerned about the economy, outpacing those worried about the Iraq war or health care. Nine out of 10 Democratic voters said the economy was in bad shape. 
 A majority of Democrats in most states said they believed that Mrs. Clinton was best suited to be commander in chief, while Mr. Obama had a similar edge among Democrats regarding who was more likely to unite the country.
 Mr. Obama was receiving at least half of the votes from white men in Arizona, Connecticut, Georgia, and Illinois, and he received 4 in 10 in Missouri, New York and New Jersey. But Mrs. Clinton appeared to have an edge in the delegate-rich state of Missouri late Tuesday.
 He also won a majority of voters under 30 in most of the states. Similarly, Mrs. Clinton received most of the votes from people over 65. 
 For months now, the Obama and Clinton campaigns have viewed Tuesday as a decisive moment in the presidential race. When Mrs. Clinton lost the first nominating contest, in Iowa, she and her advisers noted that the 45 delegates at stake there were a mere fraction of the delegates at stake in the state contests on Tuesday.
 Mr. Obama and his aides made similar remarks after his losses in New Hampshire and Nevada, and both he and Mrs. Clinton increasingly spoke of the nomination fight as a two-way battle for delegates, pure and simple.
 Mrs. Clinton underscored this viewpoint by campaigning in California and Arizona, two states that voted Tuesday, in the week before the South Carolina primary -- signaling, in effect, that her strategy was much more focused on winning contests on Tuesday than on South Carolina, which Mr. Obama ended up winning in a rout.
 Over the last week, however, public and private opinion polls have showed tightening races in states where Mrs. Clinton had held substantial leads, including Massachusetts and New Jersey (where a combined total of 200 delegates were at stake) and California, which had 370 delegates. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama and his wife after his victory in Illinois. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton after winning in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton speaking with reporters on Tuesday morning at a voting precinct in Chappaqua, N.Y., while former President Bill Clinton cast his vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2008



162 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Luck and Defiance Rescued Limping McCain Campaign

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
On a Friday morning last July, Senator John McCain packed a carry-on bag, boarded a cheap flight out of Baltimore and traveled alone to New Hampshire.
 His campaign had just burned through $24 million and had nearly gone broke. His sunny comments about progress in Iraq had made him a target of derision. His calls for loosening immigration rules had outraged grass-roots conservatives. 
 So when Mr. McCain, of Arizona, spoke at a campaign event in Concord that afternoon, he might have been the only one in the room who thought he could salvage his candidacy. ''Everybody came that day to see the dead man walk,'' recalled Fergus Cullen, the chairman of the New Hampshire Republican Party.
 Mr. McCain's big victories on Tuesday night, which gave him a commanding lead in the race for his party's nomination, represented one of the most remarkable resurrection stories in recent American politics. How it happened has as much to do with events beyond Mr. McCain's control -- the success of the troop buildup he supported in Iraq, Rudolph W. Giuliani's decision not to contest New Hampshire -- as it does with the stubbornness of Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war, to stick it out. 
 But Mr. McCain was also helped by factors that defied conventional wisdom. His support for an overhaul of immigration law rallied Hispanic Republicans pivotal to his success in Florida. His decision to narrate a television commercial about how moved he was when one of his North Vietnamese captors drew a cross in the sand for him at Christmas helped him win over many conservative Christians in South Carolina, even as national evangelical leaders denounced him for voting against their causes.
 A critical factor in his comeback was his campaign's decision to pour almost all of its scarce resources into trying to make an early splash in New Hampshire, a small state that fit Mr. McCain's budget and his style of campaigning in intimate town hall meetings.
 Finally, Mr. McCain's campaign could not have recovered without a last-ditch $3 million loan last fall, when the candidate, who is 71, put up as collateral his campaign mailing list, the principal asset of his political future, and took out a life insurance policy to assure the bankers that they would be paid, even if he died.
 ''He was the last man left standing'' after the Florida primary, said Ed Rogers, a veteran Republican operative not working for any campaign. While Mr. McCain's opponents all suffered problems, even at the worst of times Mr. McCain was able to keep his approval rating from sinking in New Hampshire. If he was not winning, he was also, as Mr. Rogers put it, ''just not losing.''
 Mr. McCain officially kicked off his campaign on April 25 last year, when he announced his candidacy to an often listless crowd in Portsmouth, N.H., then repeated his remarks later to a gathering pelted by cold rain in Manchester. The grim weather was a metaphor for a campaign dogged by problems, chief among them fund-raising difficulties and bloated expenses.
 Although he had expected to raise $100 million by the end of 2007, Mr. McCain's positions on the war and immigration turned off the small donors who had been his mainstay in his 2000 presidential race. Mr. McCain had also alienated many potential big donors -- particularly those in the lobbying, telecommunications and military industries -- with various legislative crusades.
 At the same time, his campaign was spending freely. He had 150 people on his payroll and the highest-paid staff of any campaign of either party. Filings for the first three months of 2007 show that Terry Nelson, the campaign manager, made nearly $52,000 in the first quarter, and that the campaign had spent $11,000 on photography, $1,700 for decorations and $1,671 for flowers. 
 The troubles exploded on July 10, when the campaign announced, at the very moment that Mr. McCain stood on the Senate floor opposing a withdrawal from Iraq, that his top two political aides, John Weaver and Mr. Nelson, were departing. Speculation raced through both parties that Mr. McCain would soon withdraw from the race.
 But three days later, Mr. McCain got off a Southwest Airlines flight in Manchester and began the long climb back up. 
 The first decision was to jettison the planned 30-state campaign -- Mr. McCain could not afford it, anyway -- and focus almost solely on New Hampshire, where he had upset George W. Bush in the 2000 primary. 
 ''He said, 'I know how to campaign here in New Hampshire, this state is tailor-made for me, I'll live off the land,' '' recalled Steve Duprey, a former New Hampshire Republican Party chairman and a top McCain supporter in the state.
 As Mr. McCain traveled in Mr. Duprey's Suburban to banter and argue with voters in small gatherings, Rick Davis, the new campaign manager, brought costs under control, if only because there was no money and no other choice. Mr. Davis and other senior advisers worked without salaries, as they do to this day. Mr. Duprey recalls Mr. Davis turning down requests from the field for bumper stickers and yard signs.
 A turning point came in a debate in Durham, N.H., on Sept. 5, when Mr. McCain took Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and one of his Republican rivals, to task for saying the ''surge'' strategy in Iraq was ''apparently'' working. 
 ''It is working,'' Mr. McCain said, in a sharp response that drew largely good reviews and energized his campaign. ''No, not 'apparently.' It's working.''
 A week later, Mr. McCain was on what his campaign billed as a ''No Surrender'' Iowa bus tour, a double reference to the Iraq war and Mr. McCain's presidential campaign. The candidate packed a bus with former fellow prisoners of war from Vietnam and newly minted veterans from Iraq and stopped at V.F.W. posts and American Legion halls across Iowa to argue that the strategy in Iraq was a success, and that Democrats and wavering Republicans who wanted to withdraw the troops were making a terrible mistake. The campaign was convinced that even those voters who disagreed with Mr. McCain took notice.
 ''He was willing to stake his political fortune,'' said Michael DuHaime, a top adviser to the Giuliani campaign. ''People respect that.'' 
 But the campaign, which could scarcely afford the bus, was being greatly outspent by Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani. ''I tell you, it was still a tough slog,'' Mr. Duprey said. The campaign was able to broadcast only one New Hampshire television commercial, made at cost by Mr. McCain's media consultant, Mark McKinnon, but campaign advisers said it nonetheless nudged Mr. McCain's poll numbers upward.
 By November, polls showed that the public had begun to feel less negative about Iraq, where violence had declined. Mr. McCain's early support for increasing troop levels began to look prescient. At the same time, his closest rival for the nomination, Mr. Giuliani, began to fade after critical news reports about his years as mayor of New York City, and soon decided to pull out of New Hampshire entirely.
 ''The rise of McCain is literally tied to the decline of Giuliani,'' said Andrew Kohut, a pollster and the president of the Pew Research Center. 
 The $3 million loan kept the campaign alive into December, when it became clear that Fred D. Thompson, another Republican rival, was going nowhere. At the same time, the commercial that ran in late December about the cross in the sand, titled ''My Christmas Story,'' seemed to be reaching evangelicals in South Carolina.
 ''In 2000, in spite of the urging of several of us, Senator McCain was reluctant to speak about how faithgot him through his P.O.W. experience,'' said Gary L. Bauer, a prominent Christian conservative who became one of the few to endorse him eight years ago.
 ''In this campaign he has been much more willing to show more of his own heart and his relationship with God,'' Mr. Bauer said, ''and I think that has contributed to the fact that essentially the evangelical vote is being divided three ways'' among Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney and Mike Huckabee, who had been a minister before he became Arkansas's governor. By Jan. 3, when Mr. Huckabee was the surprise winner in the Iowa caucuses, Mr. McCain's advisers were jubilant that the victory had weakened Mr. Romney, then Mr. McCain's most serious competitor.
 ''Huckabee chipping Romney in Iowa was an enormous event for the campaign,'' said Steve Schmidt, one of Mr. McCain's senior advisers.
 Mr. McCain's New Hampshire victory created the momentum that he and his advisers had long hoped for. The victory in South Carolina followed, not least because Mr. McCain had in place a ''truth squad'' of establishment Republicans to repel smear tactics that had derailed his primary campaign there in 2000. 
 Last week, propelled once again by momentum and money that was at last rolling in, Mr. McCain won Florida with big support from Cuban-Americans. It was no accident that his first event in the state after his South Carolina victory was at a restaurant in Little Havana, where he was introduced in Spanish by a crucial supporter, Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Miami. At the same time, Mr. Giuliani, who had spent millions of dollars and weeks in the state, was in free fall, and ultimately lost the primary.
 This week, as Mr. McCain grew more confident of winning, the maverick who had long defied and exasperated his party began promoting himself as a true conservative who could unify Republicans for the fight in November. ''The party always comes together after we have the nominee,'' Mr. McCain said after he touched down Tuesday in Phoenix to watch election returns. ''That's a legacy handed down to us from Ronald Reagan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some residents of East Los Angeles went to the polls early Tuesday at the Belvedere Park Recreation Center. Officials said they expected about half of the state's voters to have cast ballots by mail. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P1)
Senator John McCain of Arizona speaking in San Diego on Tuesday before heading home to Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P1)
Senator John McCain, shown at a Rockefeller Center rally Tuesday, completed a political revival when his triumphs last night moved him closer to the Republican presidential nomination. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P5) CHARTS: THE EXIT POLLS: REPUBLICANS: Political philosophy
Most qualified to manage the economy
 Attends religious services 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CHRISTMAS (74%); POLITICS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); RELIGION (63%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); INSURANCE POLICIES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



163 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; BATTLEGROUNDS KEY RACES FOR THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: With Issues of War and Peace on Their Minds, Voters Make Choices

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER, KAREEM FAHIM, JENNIFER MEDINA, WILLIAM NEUMAN and MICHAEL R. KAGAY

 BODY:
MASSACHUSETTS A Generation Gap
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York won in a tight race that was marked by sharp generational divides, with voters ages 45 and older supporting Mrs. Clinton, and younger voters choosing Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, according to exit polls. Many voters had waited until the last minute to make a decision about whom they would support, with about one-third saying they did not decide whom to vote for until the final week of the campaign. Although Mrs. Clinton had held a lead for months, Mr. Obama appeared to get a significant bounce after receiving the backing of the state's senior senator, Edward M. Kennedy. One local poll this week showed Mr. Obama slightly edging ahead of Mrs. Clinton. The state's 93 pledged delegates are allocated proportionally between the two candidates, with 31 based on the statewide results and the remainder divided based on the vote in each of the congressional districts. Each candidate had raised considerable money in the state -- Mr. Obama $1.98 million, and Mrs. Clinton $1.88 million.
 CONNECTICUT Evenly Divided on Economy 
 Mr. Obama won a tight race in Connecticut with the help of younger voters and voters who identified themselves as independents, exit polls showed. Mrs. Clinton did better with voters over age 60. The economy was cited as the top issue by a large swath of voters for both candidates. But voters who identified Iraq as the top issue sided with Mr. Obama 2 to 1. Both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama made campaign stops in the state Monday. Mr. Obama held a boisterous rally in Hartford at the XL Center, which was filled to capacity with a crowd of more than 17,000 people, while Mrs. Clinton spoke to a much smaller group at the Yale Child Study Center in New Haven.Mr. Obama had collected more money from the state than any other candidate, raising $2 million. Mrs. Clinton had the backing of several top Connecticut Democrats, including Richard Blumenthal, the state's attorney general. In recent days, Mr. Obama collected endorsements from several Congress.
 NEW YORK Clinton's Home State Edge
 Nearly half of all Democratic voters cited the economy as the most important issue, and those voters overwhelmingly voted for Mrs. Clinton. She also did well in her home state among those who said experience was the most important issue.Mr. Obama did better among young voters and among those who called themselves independents. A majority of voters said Mrs. Clinton would be the best commander in chief, but they were split on whether she or Mr. Obama would be best at uniting the country. Mrs. Clinton's polling numbers withstood a late rush by Mr. Obama after his strong showing in South Carolina. At stake were 281 delegates, the second biggest pool among states with contests yesterday. Mr. Obama's campaign focused on a few neighborhoods and college towns in hopes of taking some of the 151 delegates allocated based on voting in the state's 29 congressional districts. An additional 81 delegates are distributed based on the statewide vote. The 49 unpledged delegates, mostly elected officials, are expected to support Mrs. Clinton.
 NEW JERSEY Stressing Change and Economy
 Mrs. Clinton won a close race in New Jersey, where voters said that the economy was the most important issue in deciding how to cast their vote, according to exit polls. They also said that a candidate's ability to bring about change was important to them. Blacks and independents favored Mr. Obama; most voters said that Mrs. Clinton was more qualified to be commander in chief. New Jersey's Democrats have traditionally played a minor role in the presidential nominating process: with its late primary, the state was a place to raise money, but it was an infrequent campaign stop. That changed this year when the date of the primary was moved up, and in recent weeks, the state was overrun with candidates or their surrogates. Mr. Obama campaigned with the actor Robert DeNiro and Senator Edward M. Kennedy in East Rutherford, and Mrs. Clinton stumped in North Bergen, at a rally organized by Senator Robert Menendez. For months, Mrs. Clinton was the favorite, supported by Gov. Jon S. Corzine.
 ILLINOIS Support in a Home State
 Mr. Obama claimed a key victory in his home state of Illinois, carrying nearly demographic group, according to early exit polls. African- American voters chose Mr. Obama by nearly 9 to 1, those polls showed. Mr. Obama edged out Mrs. Clinton even among white voters and by 2 to 1, women chose Mr. Obama over Mrs. Clinton. Illinois and Georgia were two states in which Democratic voters said that Mr. Obama would make a better commander in chief than Mrs. Clinton. Interest was high in the state, where Mr. Obama is often referred to as a favorite son and where he served in the state Senate. Mrs. Clinton herself was born and grew up in Illinois. Nearly 500,000 more people were registered to vote in this year's open primary than in 2000. The state's 185 delegates were considered key to Mr. Obama's chances. Hoping to help Mr. Obama, the chairman of the state Democratic Party last year led the push to move the state's primary up from its usual date in mid-March.
 MISSOURI A Streak of Independence
 Nearly a quarter of the voters in the Democratic primary, where 72 delegates were at stake, described themselves as independents, according to exit polls; among those, about 6 out of 10 said they supported Mr. Obama. About half the voters surveyed said Mrs. Clinton would make the best commander in chief, and half said Mr. Obama would unite the country if he were to become president. The two candidates were about even in fundraising here, with Mr. Obama receiving $823,000 in individual contributions through the end of last year and Mrs. Clinton taking in $744,000. Missouri borders both Illinois, Mr. Obama's home state, and Arkansas, where Mrs. Clinton was first lady for 11 years. The state does not register voters by party, and it allows voters to cast their ballots in either the Democratic or Republican primary. Missouri could prove to be a crucial swing state in the general election in November; over the last century the state has voted for the winning presidential candidate in every election but one.
 CALIFORNIA A Sharp Divide
 California was the scene of a close and hardfought campaign with both Democratic candidates demonstrating their strengths. Early exit polls showed Mr. Obama running strongly among African-Americans, white men, younger voters and liberals. Mrs. Clinton did well among Hispanics, white women, moderates and those who described themselves as ''somewhat conservative.'' Those who identified themselves as Democrats tended to choose Mrs. Clinton; ''independents or something else'' overwhelmingly voted for Mr. Obama. A majority of Californians who were surveyed said they made up their minds in the last month. The economy was ranked most often as the top issue facing the nation, followed by the war in Iraq and health care. Overwhelmingly, California Democrats rated the condition of the economy as ''not so good'' or ''poor.'' There were signs that both Democratic camps were growing polarized; only half of the voters said they would be satisfied if either candidate became the nominee.
 How The Exit Polls Were Conducted
 The exit polls were based on questionnaires completed by voters on Tuesday as they left primary election locations throughout the country. The polls were conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, which consists of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results are based on responses from 508 to 1,811 primary voters at 20 to 40 randomly selected precincts in each party's primary throughout each of the 11 states analyzed by The New York Times. The 11 states were Arizona, California, Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York and Tennessee. Most were interviewed as they were exiting each site, but in Arizona, California and Tennessee the samples include some telephone interviews with early voters and absentee voters, weighted to reflect their share of the total vote. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus 3 to 6 percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who participated in each party's primary in each of the 11 states. Results based on smaller subgroups, such as views of backers of a particular candidate, have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on election day, such as the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error.
 Staff writers Russ Buettner, Kareem Fahim, Jennifer Medina and William Neuman contributed to this report, with polling analysis by Michael R. Kagay.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TED KENNEDY (59%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



164 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: As Romney Falters in Republican Race, Huckabee's Drive Gathers Momentum

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and ADAM NOSSITER; Michael Luo reported from Boston, and Adam Nossiter from Little Rock, Ark.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Even before the results were clear on Tuesday, Mitt Romney's advisers conceded that they faced a steep climb to the nomination because of simple delegate math.
 But now they also have to cope with a strong competitor to their momentum. Mr. Romney and his archrival for conservative voters, Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, each won at least five states on Tuesday. Mr. Huckabee lost narrowly in Missouri to Senator John McCain of Arizona.
 Speaking to supporters on Tuesday night in suburban Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Huckabee, former governor of the state, derided the view that he was to be counted out, telling a modest-size crowd that the vote had indeed turned the Republican contest into a two-person race -- and that he was in it. 
 ''Tonight, we're proving we're still on our feet, and much to the amazement of many, we're getting there,'' he said to cheers. 
 He gave no indication that his still substantial delegate deficit was a reason for pulling out. 
 ''As long as there are still votes and delegates, there's going to be one guy answering the bell every time there's a new round,'' Mr. Huckabee told his supporters.
 Though Mr. Huckabee lacks a convincing route to the nomination, his continued presence promises to make Mr. Romney's path much more rugged, drawing away the very conservative voters Mr. Romney had counted on to defeat Mr. McCain.
 Mr. Romney's aides tried to minimize the Huckabee effect, saying it would simply delay his progress, not prohibit it.
 ''Huckabee has a specific appeal on specific issues to an important sliver of the electorate,'' said Kevin Madden, a spokesman for Mr. Romney. ''What Huckabee seems to be doing is still maintaining that specific appeal. What it's done is it hasn't stopped us. But instead it's drawn out the primary calendar.''
 Mr. Madden acknowledged that without Mr. Huckabee in the race, almost every previous nominating contest might have turned out differently.
 ''We'd have a greater ability to bring together these coalitions of conservatives, the economic and the social and the national security conservatives, and be the best candidate to unite the party,'' Mr. Madden said.
 Mr. Huckabee's campaign manager, Chip Saltsman, said that the results on Tuesday had given the former Arkansas governor's efforts a big boost and that contributions had increased. 
 ''It gives us a lot of momentum, going forward,'' Mr. Saltsman said. ''I think we go forward with a lot more money than we thought we were going to have.'' 
 He said Mr. Huckabee was not angling for second place on the Republican ticket. 
 ''We're still running for president,'' Mr. Saltsman said. ''We're not running for vice president.''
 As an example of the Romney campaign's hurriedly revised calculations, aides had begun discussing an unlikely strategy that relies on delegates who are pledged to other candidates but who are not technically bound to them. Under that plan, the advisers envision that conservative fears continue to work against Mr. McCain, buying time and fueling a series of big victories for Mr. Romney. That would place him at a point where he has enough momentum to wrest some of the promised but not bound delegates into his column at a contested convention.
 ''Anybody who says it's all going to be a mathematical exercise is wrong,'' said Tom D. Rath, a senior adviser in the Romney campaign. ''The math will follow the politics.''
 The math, however, is daunting. Even some of the campaign's more promising hypothetical delegate counts for how the race might shake out by Wednesday would leave them facing a serious deficit in the race to the 1,191 needed to clinch the nomination.
 Under less rosy situations, Mr. Romney could be left with the almost impossible situation of having to win almost every remaining contest. 
 On the other hand, conservative grass-roots anger does appear to be building in some corners against Mr. McCain. Several conservative commentators have thrown their weight behind Mr. Romney.
 On Tuesday, James C. Dobson, founder of Focus on the Family, released a blistering statement about Mr. McCain, saying he could not in good conscience vote for the senator. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. McCain has been playing up the names of conservatives who have endorsed him, including Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, whom he called ''the most conservative member of the Senate.'' 
 Mr. Romney's advisers hope the upshot of the grass-roots anger and a divided delegate picture is that they will be able to derail at least temporarily the rush to crown Mr. McCain as the nominee.
 ''The calendar gets spread out enough so you can compete everywhere,'' said Ben Ginsberg, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney. ''And the sort of rebellion that's taking place in the grass roots against McCain has more time to take root.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney went to a hometown party at the Convention Center in Boston on Tuesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: WHO WON WHERE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); RICK PERRY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



165 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: For Candidates, Lighter Schedules Ahead After a Frenzied Day of Voting

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Where to now?
 With the coast-to-coast frenzy of Tuesday's voting behind them, the candidates can now look forward to a comparatively relaxed primary and caucus schedule between now and the next big round of nominating contests, on March 4, when voters in Ohio, Rhode Island, Texas and Vermont go to the polls.
 The remaining major contenders face different calculations on spending, travel and advertising in the coming weeks as they try to assemble enough delegates to win their party's nomination. 
 The Republican battlefield includes more states with winner-take-all contests, which tend to encourage a quicker resolution of their nominating battle. 
 But the Democrats have a dizzying array of delegate rules, so their party's candidates face a complex game board that could result in a protracted fight, beginning this weekend with a primary in Louisiana and caucuses in Nebraska and Washington. Residents of the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia vote next Tuesday.
 Neither of the two Democratic candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, is expected to land a knockout punch in a single state or on a single day in the coming weeks because the loser stands to walk away with a significant share of the delegates at stake. So it becomes to some extent a game of money, momentum and perception, party analysts said.
 ''One candidate or the other will try to show sustained momentum,'' said Tad Devine, an expert on Democratic nominating rules who is not aligned with either campaign. ''Someone will try to sweep the mid-Atlantic states on Feb. 12 and then pick up Wisconsin a week later. If someone sweeps those states, that's one thing. But if they split, it continues the pendulum swing and Ohio-Texas becomes essentially a showdown day.''
 Mr. Obama's advisers say he is positioned to do well in the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia. A recent poll gives him a double-digit lead in Maryland. Virginia's Democratic primary rules allow independents to cast ballots, which could work in Mr. Obama's favor, and the city of Washington has a black majority.
 Michael E. Cryor, the chairman of the Maryland Democratic Party, is neutral in the race, but he noted that Mrs. Clinton had the endorsements of many party leaders, including Gov. Martin O'Malley and Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. Mr. Obama, however, could run strongly in Baltimore, the Washington suburbs and many rural areas. Both candidates have started advertising and sending out mailings. 
 Voters in Wisconsin, with 92 Democratic delegates, go to the polls on Feb. 19, the same day the party holds caucuses in Hawaii, where Mr. Obama grew up. Wisconsin has proved pivotal in past Democratic primary battles, helping John F. Kennedy win the 1960 nomination and Michael S. Dukakis do so in 1988. Mr. Obama has already assigned several of his top ground operatives to Wisconsin, aides said.
 Then, for the first time since the Iowa caucuses, there is a two-week gap before the next primaries, the March 4 confrontation in Ohio, Rhode Island, Texas and Vermont. A total of 534 delegates are at stake on what will be the most important remaining day on the primary calendar.
 Polls show Mrs. Clinton leading in Ohio, and she enjoys the support of Gov. Ted Strickland and many other top party leaders. But Mr. Obama is gaining strength, and he might benefit from a flood of new voters. Both candidates have already held rallies in Ohio and are laying plans for a critical contest there.
 ''Governor Strickland is popular, and I'm sure he'll bring some ground troops out for her,'' said Robert T. Bennett, the chairman of the Ohio Republican Party who is watching the Democratic contest with considerable interest. ''But what I'm seeing around the state is the Barack phenomenon attracting a lot of young voters,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''There has been heavy, heavy new-voter registration, thousands of new voters.''
 The economy is the chief issue in Texas, said Boyd Richie, the state's Democratic Party chairman. Mr. Richie said that he and other Texas Democrats wanted to join Tuesday's primary parade, but were blocked by Republicans in the state.
 ''As it turned out, providence may have smiled on us,'' he said, because Texas will now have a consequential Democratic primary for the first time in decades. 
 The last big Democratic prizes are in Pennsylvania, whose 188 delegates will be selected on April 22, and in Indiana and North Carolina, with a combined 218 delegates, on May 6. 
 G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., said that with the exceptions of Wyoming and Mississippi, there were no contests between the March 4 votes in Ohio, Rhode Island, Texas and Vermont, and the April 22 Pennsylvania primary.
 ''If they're still competing after Ohio and Texas, there's this huge gap,'' Mr. Madonna said. ''It's just a weird calendar.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton cheered and waved signs at a post-election party on Tuesday in the ballroom of the Manhattan Center Studios in New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (58%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (55%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



166 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 690 words

 BODY:
WALL ST. IN A SPIN The stock market experienced its worst day in nearly a year after a business survey provided another sign that the United States might be heading into a recession. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 370 points. [C1.]
 THE POSITIVE SIDE OF SEEING RED A year after the rock star Bono, below, started Red, a campaign that combined consumerism and altruism, consumers have generated more than $22 million to fight H.I.V. and AIDS in Rwanda. But some say the campaign is more marketing than charity. [C1.] 
 BATTLE OF THE BEHEMOTHS Microsoft's grab for Yahoo appears to have set off alarm bells for Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, a seasoned Microsoft adversary. Whatever the outcome of Microsoft's bid, the move -- and Google's countermoves -- suggest an escalation in the confrontation between the companies, analysts say. [C1.]
 BHP SWEETENS ITS BID BHP Billiton, the world 3/5minute 4/5s biggest mining company, increased its takeover offer for Rio Tinto to about $147 billion after Rio's board rejected an earlier proposal as too low. [C2.]
 WACHOVIA'S TIES TO FRAUD Newly released documents from a lawsuit show that Wachovia knew about allegations that fraudulent telemarketers had used the bank's accounts to steal millions of dollars from unsuspecting victims and that it had even solicited business from companies it knew had been accused of telemarketing crimes. [C1.]
 ADS THAT FIND YOU CBS's mobile unit is teaming up with the social networking service Loopt to try one of the first serious experiments with advertising beamed to cellphones and customized for a person's location. [C1.]
 TOYOTA'S PROFIT RISES Toyota reported a 7.5 percent increase in profit in its fiscal third quarter as its strategy of focusing on emerging markets appeared to be paying off. The results help Toyota in its effort to overtake General Motors as the top global automaker by sales. [C2.]
 FRENCH TRADER SPEAKS OUT Jerome Kerviel said that while he took responsibility for booking billions of euros in fictitious trades, he would not be made the scapegoat for the trading losses that cost the French bank Societe Generale more than $7 billion. [C3.]
 BP PLANS JOB CUTS As part of a plan to make the company more efficient, the British oil giant BP said that it would cut 5,000 jobs by the middle of next year. The company also announced a fourth-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates. [C3.]
 TRADING CHARGES SETTLED Federal regulators said a former Dow Jones & Company director and three associates would pay more than $24 million to settle charges that the associates profited from insider trading on knowledge of the News Corporation's takeover of Dow Jones. [C3.]
 DISNEY REMAINS UPBEAT The Walt Disney Company reported a 27 percent decline in its fiscal first-quarter earnings results, and executives sought to reassure investors that the weakening economy was not affecting television advertising sales or its theme park business. [C3.]
 DEMOCRATS TO FIGHT FOR PLAN Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, said that Democrats were prepared to force a showdown with Republicans over a $204 billion economic stimulus package. [A15.]
 W.T.O. WELCOMES UKRAINE After 14 years of negotiations, Ukraine joined the World Trade Organization, a deal that is expected to lift living standards and increase investment in what is one of Europe's poorest countries. [C4.]
 PANDAS SHELVED The parent company of Salesgenie.com apologized for two commercials that ran during Super Bowl XLII and said that one featuring a pair of animated pandas speaking with what were intended as Chinese accents would be withdrawn. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.]
 MALL TO GET NEW LIFE A real estate investment trust in Santa Monica, Calif., plans to transform a mall designed by Frank Gehry into an open-air shopping center with a restaurant deck overlooking the Pacific Ocean. [C6.]
 DEVELOPERS'S FEE MAY RISE Real estate lawyers who represent both property developers and home buyers are hailing a bill in the state Legislature that would increase the filing fee for developers of condominiums and co-ops in New York. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); TELEMARKETING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); TELEMARKETING REGULATION (75%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); LITIGATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); MINES & MINING (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); EMERGING MARKETS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%); DOW JONES & CO INC (85%); BHP BILLITON PLC (83%); BP PLC (80%); WALT DISNEY CO (80%); NEWS CORP (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); RIO TINTO GROUP (55%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); BLT (LSE) (83%); BIBLT (JSE) (83%); BBL (NYSE) (83%); BP (NYSE) (80%); BP (LSE) (80%); DIS (NYSE) (80%); NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); RIOS (BRU) (55%); RIO (NYSE) (55%); RIO (LSE) (55%); RIO (ASX) (55%); GLE (PAR) (55%); GLE (BIT) (55%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (83%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (83%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (83%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (83%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (55%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (55%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (78%); BONO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



167 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Adversary Rises Instinctively at Yahoo Bid

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
More than a decade ago, Andrew S. Grove, then the chief executive of Intel, aptly described the hypercompetitive mentality of Silicon Valley in his book title ''Only the Paranoid Survive.''
 Now, the anxious efforts by Google, led by its chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, to try to scuttle Microsoft's $44.6 billion bid for Yahoo may well seem like a bout of Valley paranoia. After all, many industry analysts view the acquisition plan, announced Friday, as a desperation move by Microsoft to buy a bigger stake in the online advertising and Internet search markets, even as it and Yahoo fade further behind Google. 
 The fast, forceful response from Google is a product of Mr. Schmidt's history and personality. Mr. Schmidt, 52, had spent much of his career battling Microsoft at Sun Microsystems and Novell, before joining Google in 2001. 
 His animosity toward Microsoft has long been publicly understated and analytic in quality. At Sun, he stood at an amused distance from the entertaining antics of the chairman, Scott G. McNealy, who railed against Microsoft and its leaders, Steven A. Ballmer and Bill Gates, as ''Ballmer and Butthead.'' 
 During a four-year stint at Novell, Mr. Schmidt warned that it was foolhardy for any Microsoft rival to ''moon the giant,'' as he put it, and incite Microsoft's wrath.
 Yet he is openly taking on Microsoft of Redmond, Wash. ''This could be a signal that he's going to go straight at Microsoft, including disrupting their deals,'' said George F. Colony, chief executive of Forrester Research. ''This looks like the beginning of the formal war.''
 Whatever the outcome of Microsoft's bid, analysts say, the move and Google's countermoves represent an escalation in the confrontation between the companies. Google says the Microsoft bid raises grave competitive and policy issues. 
 Its chief legal officer, David Drummond, said in a statement Sunday afternoon that the proposed deal posed a threat to ''the underlying principles of the Internet: openness and innovation.'' 
 Mr. Schmidt called Yahoo's chief, Jerry Yang, to offer help, perhaps a partnership. In Washington, Google lobbyists urged regulators to scrutinize any Microsoft-Yahoo merger.
 Microsoft's initiative toward Yahoo, according to former colleagues, seems to have set off alarm bells for Mr. Schmidt, the seasoned Microsoft adversary.
 ''Google's response looks like an overreaction, even a little panicky, to me,'' said Michael Sheridan, a venture capital adviser who worked with Mr. Schmidt at both Sun and Novell. ''But for Eric, it's as if something from your past has kicked in, and the feared enemy from the north is at your door.''
 Mr. Schmidt is a computer scientist who worked as a researcher at Bell Laboratories and at the Palo Alto Research Center of Xerox before moving into management. He is every bit as comfortable talking about software scripting languages as he is discussing corporate strategy. His resentment of Microsoft, it seems, stems in part from his view that it is a triumph of market muscle over superior technology -- a common belief in Silicon Valley.
 Now, after a long career there, Mr. Schmidt finds himself leading a company that has plenty of market muscle of its own, and it is Microsoft for once that is struggling to compete. 
 Mr. Schmidt's concern is that buying Yahoo could put Microsoft in a position to repeat the pattern of the 1990s, according to people who have talked with Mr. Schmidt recently and asked not to be quoted because they were not authorized to speak for him. In the 1990s, Microsoft used its dominance of personal computer software to wrest control of the early Web software markets, like the ones for computer browsers and media players. 
 If Microsoft buys Yahoo, it will have more than an 80 percent share in markets like consumer e-mail accounts on the Web and instant messaging. 
 Mr. Schmidt, they say, has warned that Microsoft could then combine its dominance in PC software to steer users to online software and services, and lock them into Microsoft technology -- in a way ''exactly analogous'' to the company's tactics in the '90s. Microsoft's corporate behavior led to antitrust challenges and sanctions in the United States and Europe.
 Microsoft argues that its purchase of Yahoo would give Google a solid competitor in the Internet search and ad markets, enhancing consumer benefits and hastening innovation.
 The Google campaign against Microsoft's bid, to some degree, underlines their broadening competition. They compete not only in Internet searches and advertising, where Google continues to gain market share, but also in software. 
 It is an assault that is just getting under way. But Google has begun offering Web-based word processing, spreadsheets and presentation software as an alternative to Microsoft's lucrative desktop programs. Google's online programs are free, or $50 a user for companies that want technical support. 
 ''That's the dagger at the heart of Microsoft,'' said Thomas R. Eisenmann, an associate professor at Harvard Business School and an author of the school's case study on Google. ''And that's why Microsoft is so eager to have a response. It's buying Yahoo to become a much more vigorous competitor in search and advertising, Google's core business.''
 Whether Google's concerns about Microsoft are justified is unclear. And its protests of the deal, some analysts suggest, amount to posturing with intent. The longer Microsoft's purchase of Yahoo can be dragged out with regulatory reviews, they say, the better for Google, as it gains while Microsoft's online business remains unsettled.
 Two years ago, Google raised concerns about Microsoft's use of the most recent version of its browser to steer users to its MSN search service. The browser, which is bundled with Microsoft's Windows operating system, contains a small on-screen box for searching. Google complained that the search box steered users to Microsoft's browser as the default, and expressed its concerns to state antitrust regulators, the Justice Department and the European Commission.
 Microsoft said it listened to concerns from Google and other competitors, and designed the browser so that it was easy to set and change the default search service. In June 2006, the Justice Department concluded that the design of Microsoft's browser was not anticompetitive. Since then, Google's share of Internet searches has continued to climb.
 For its part, Google has plenty that is proprietary. Its search algorithms and the design, even the size, of its data centers are trade secrets.
 But the two powerful companies have different business models that seek advantage in different places. In an interview in November, Mr. Schmidt said he understood the comparison but that it ''rankled'' him.
 ''Microsoft was found guilty in a federal court,'' he said. The big software maker, he argued, illegally maintained its Windows monopoly by stifling rivals. ''Fundamentally, they blocked people from entering their ecosystem.'' 
 ''At Google,'' Mr. Schmidt added, ''we had a long conversation about, if we became a big company, how could we avoid that. There are a lot of technical things we can do and have done. But the one that we decided that was most important was not to trap user data. That is important because'' if you can move your data from Google, ''you always have a choice to go to a competitor of Google. That is absolutely not true in Microsoft's history.''
 Google is hoping that Microsoft's past will hamper its effort to become more formidable in the online business. Regulators in the United States and Europe can be expected to look closely at Microsoft's proposed acquisition of Yahoo and decide whether Google is being paranoid or not. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, has dueled with Microsoft over a long career. He fears a raid on Google markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); HISTORY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); YAHOO! INC (95%); NOVELL INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INTEL CORP (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); BELL LABORATORIES (50%); PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (92%); STEVEN A BALLMER (78%); BILL GATES (58%); JERRY YANG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008



168 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: On the Island, Facing the Challenge of New Suburbia

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The City Is the Future of the Suburbs, and Other Heresies,'' by Lawrence Downes (Editorial Observer, Jan. 29): 
 The single-family home -- Long Island's defining trait -- is not ''defunct.'' It simply needs to be complemented by exciting downtowns that go vertical, take advantage of mass transit and provide affordable housing options for young singles who won't get married until their early 30s and empty-nesters looking to scale down. 
 The challenge of ''New Suburbia'' -- my term, not Mr. Downes's -- is to maintain everything we love about our hometowns but address the very real problems of crushing property taxes, a lack of affordable housing and pockets of poverty that have been ignored for a generation.
 In Nassau County, we love our single-family neighborhoods with a park down the street and a quality of life that is unparalleled -- our status as the safest community of our size in the nation, our great schools, low unemployment, best health care, beautiful open spaces, coastal waterways and easy access to the world's capital, New York City. But we can no longer afford the second-highest property taxes in the nation.
 For too long we have been playing defense -- hanging on to the memories of the good old days, wishing and hoping that we don't lose them. As the 2008 Long Island Index showed, we are now playing offense, planning for a better, improved tomorrow that keeps the best of suburbia and addresses the realities we face today. 
 Thomas R. Suozzi Nassau County Executive Mineola, N.Y., Jan. 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COUNTIES (73%); EMPTY NESTERS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (68%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



169 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: A Hopeful Year for Unions

 BODY:
By virtually every indicator, 2007 was a dismal year for American workers. Job growth slowed, unemployment jumped and wages lost what little ground they had gained against inflation since 2003. There is one sliver of good news: the percentage of American workers who belong to a union rose for the first time in three decades. 
 The Labor Department reported that the number of workers belonging to a union grew by 311,000 to 15.7 million. That means union members increased from 12 percent of the American work force in 2006 to 12.1 percent last year. In the private sector, unions' share of workers inched ahead from 7.4 percent to 7.46 percent. While the rebound is tiny, and might yet prove to be a statistical mirage, it is the first recorded increase in organized labor's ranks since the 1970s, when almost one in four workers belonged to a union.
 There is little doubt that American workers need unions. Wages today are almost 10 percent lower than they were in 1973, after accounting for inflation. The share of national income devoted to workers' wages and benefits is at its lowest since the late-1960s, while the share going to profits has surged. The decline in unionization has been a big part of the reason that workers have lost so much ground. 
 The future of organized labor is not cause for great optimism. Employers have become more aggressive about keeping unions out. Competitive pressures from globalization, deregulation and technological change have resulted in the loss of many union jobs. 
 Indeed, unionization rose last year partly because of the slow pace of job creation in nonunionized sectors of the labor market. The jump in unionization rates in the construction industry, for example, was partly attributed to the steep decline in residential construction, where there are fewer unions, while the more heavily unionized commercial construction sector remained strong. 
 Still, the uptick offers hope that the renewed emphasis on organizing workers by some of the nation's largest unions -- like the service employees' union, the Teamsters and others that split off from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to form the Change to Win coalition -- might start paying dividends despite the difficult odds.
 A bill that would have made it easier for unions to organize workers died in the Senate last June. Congress should take up this issue again to stop companies from using threats and other aggressive tactics to keep organized labor out, and to help win workers their rightful share of the economic pie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); DIVIDENDS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (63%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



170 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: France: Vuitton Profit Is Up, but Outlook Is Clouded

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world's largest luxury-goods maker, posted a 12 percent increase in second-half profit but said the economic outlook was ''worrisome.'' Profit in the half was 1.19 billion euros ($1.75 billion), up from 1.06 billion euros a year earlier, LVMH said. Second-half sales rose 9.3 percent, to 9.07 billion euros. The chairman, Bernard Arnault, left, said the company, which is based in Paris, faced a ''likely'' recession in the United States, where it was raising prices to counter a weak dollar. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); EURO (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); RECESSION (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (85%); US DOLLAR (82%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (95%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (95%); LVMH (BIT) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (95%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (95%)

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (51%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



171 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Growth Slows And the Costs Of Labor Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Worker productivity, a crucial factor in rising living standards, slowed sharply in the last quarter of 2007 while wage pressure increased.
 The Labor Department reported Wednesday that productivity, the amount of output for each hour of work, increased at an annual pace of 1.8 percent from October through December, down from a 6 percent pace in the July-September period. The slowdown reflected an overall weakening in economic activity. 
 Labor costs rose by 2.1 percent, after having fallen by 1.9 percent in the third quarter and 1.1 percent in the second quarter.
 Still, the increase in productivity was nearly double what economists had been expecting, and the rise in labor costs was slightly less than expected.
 Ian C. Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, said he looked for productivity to slow further in 2008, reflecting an extremely weak economy in the first half of the year.
 For all of 2007, productivity rose 1.6 percent, a modest increase from a 1 percent gain in 2006. Both years were well below the average annual increases of 3.2 percent from 2000 through 2004.
 Productivity allows businesses to pay their workers more without having to raise the cost of their products. Productivity was stagnant for two decades after the oil shocks of the 1970s. Starting in 1995, however, it began showing bigger improvements, reflecting in part the capital investments made by companies in computers and other equipment.
 Economists are debating whether that substantial gain in productivity is now waning or whether the slowdown is a temporary reflection of the deterioration of the overall economy.
 Some analysts argue that the fourth-quarter slump in productivity and the rise in labor costs will not alarm Fed policy makers, who are focused on fighting the sharp slowdown in overall economic activity rather than worrying about inflation. For all 2007, labor costs rose 3.1 percent, a slight increase from a 2.9 percent rise in 2006.

GRAPHIC: CHART: U.S. PRODUCTIVITY: Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (98%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



172 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Paper Cuts An Industry Imperiled By Falling Profits And Shrinking Ads

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
In just the last few weeks, The San Diego Union-Tribune eliminated more than 100 jobs, one-tenth of its work force. The Chicago Sun-Times began a major round of newsroom layoffs, then put itself up for sale, and publishers in Minneapolis and Philadelphia warned that tough economics could force cuts there.
 Not long ago, news like that would have drawn much commentary and hand-wringing in the newspaper business, but in the last few months, reductions have become so routine that they barely make a ripple outside each paper's hometown. Since mid-2007, major downsizing -- often coupled with grim financial reports -- has been imposed at The San Francisco Chronicle, The Seattle Times, The San Jose Mercury News, USA Today and many others.
 The talk of newspapers' demise is older than some of the reporters who write about it, but what is happening now is something new, something more serious than anyone has experienced in generations. Last year started badly and ended worse, with shrinking profits and tumbling stock prices, and 2008 is shaping up as more of the same, prompting louder talk about a dark turning point. 
 ''I'm an optimist, but it is very hard to be positive about what's going on,'' said Brian P. Tierney, publisher of The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News. ''The next few years are transitional, and I think some papers aren't going to make it.''
 Advertising, the source of more than 80 percent of newspaper revenue, traditionally rose and fell with the overall economy. But in the last 12 to 18 months, that link has been broken, and executives do not expect to be able to repair it completely anytime soon.
 In 2007, combined print and online ad revenue fell about 7 percent. In the last six decades, only one other year -- 2001, when there was a recession -- had a steeper decline, according to the Newspaper Association of America. Adjusted for inflation, 2007 ad revenue was more than 20 percent below its peak in 2000.
 Circulation revenue has declined steadily since 2003, and the number of copies sold has been slipping about 2 percent a year. Some of the largest papers -- including The San Francisco Chronicle, The Boston Globe and The Los Angeles Times -- have lost 30 to 40 percent of their circulation in just a few years. 
 The long-term shift of advertising to the Internet -- especially classified ads for things like jobs, cars and houses -- accelerated last year. The real estate downturn hit the newspaper business hard, especially in California and Florida, where real estate ads fell more than 20 percent at some newspapers.
 Over all, local advertising has fallen, while ''the national ad market is still strong,'' said Alexia Quadrani, an analyst at Bear Stearns & Company. ''Local advertisers have been swallowed up, and there are just fewer. Your local pharmacy becomes CVS; your local hardware store becomes Home Depot.''
 In the last few days, several newspaper companies have reported weak December results, and they warned that January looked similarly bad and that the situation would worsen in a recession.
 ''The traditional cyclical factors are turning south at the same time as the structural factors,'' said Ken Doctor, an industry analyst with the research firm Outsell. ''It's a very sobering time.''
 Newspaper executives and analysts say that it could take five to 10 years for the industry's finances to stabilize and that many of the papers that survive will be smaller and will practice less ambitious journalism.
 Some companies may look for buyers, but it is not clear how much of a market for newspapers remains. The first test will come from the Sun-Times Media Group, which announced Monday that after suffering deep losses and closing several small weekly papers, it would try to sell any assets it could, including its flagship paper, The Sun-Times.
 Others may seek shelter from market pressures by becoming nonprofit or going private; the Tribune Company recently did both. Other publishers, like the Washington Post Company and the E. W. Scripps Company, are shielded somewhat by having highly profitable non-newspaper holdings, but even they have made cuts.
 Critics of the industry -- including many executives within it -- say that newspapers have done a poor job adapting to the Internet and working creatively and aggressively to sell ads.
 Mr. Tierney agrees, ''but you could change that and still be sliding,'' he said. ''When everyone's taking on water, you can't expect to stay dry -- only less wet.''
 That is in sharp contrast to his tone in 2006, when he led a group of investors who paid $515 million for the two Philadelphia papers. Back then, Mr. Tierney dismissed the industry's gloomy talk, expressing confidence that it could win back paying readers and advertisers.
 With some clever and assertive marketing, Mr. Tierney's papers have bucked the trend and kept their circulation steady, but their advertising has declined along with that in the rest of the industry.
 Newspaper profits remain healthy, but they are dropping fast. For example, the newspapers of Media General, a large Southern chain, had a 17 percent operating profit margin last year, but the dollar amount fell 23 percent from the year before. The Gannett Company's newspaper division, the nation's largest chain, had a 21 percent margin, but a 10 percent decline.
 The downturn has coincided with a series of newspaper takeovers, leaving some companies -- notably the McClatchy Company and the Tribune Company -- with much bigger debt payments and less cash to cover them.
 Falling stock prices made newspapers look like tempting targets to some buyers in 2006 and early 2007, but even then, the prices of the transactions that did take place were seen as inflated, and there was little interest from other potential bidders. McClatchy bought the Knight Ridder chain, and the News Corporation bought Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal. Many papers were sold in smaller deals, including the Philadelphia dailies, The San Jose Mercury News and The Star Tribune of Minneapolis.
 Share prices have continued to fall since then, and analysts think they will go lower still. But since last spring, the supply of buyers seems to have dried up.
 The industry has made cost reductions that include using smaller page sizes, consolidating operations among papers and eliminating delivery routes. Job cuts have become all but universal; The New York Times Company revealed last week that its head count had dropped 3.8 percent in a year. At many papers, the usual way to reduce -- the buyout -- has been supplemented or even replaced by layoffs.
 Most papers have cut their newsrooms and simply done less reporting, especially overseas (in one recent example, The Baltimore Sun closed its last remaining foreign bureaus). The industry consumes about three-quarters as much newsprint as it did four years ago, a result of lower circulation and fewer ads, but also of fewer articles.
 Some companies have tried hard to shield their newsrooms from reductions, while others have cut them aggressively. The Mercury News, for instance, has about 200 newsroom employees, barely half as many as in 2000. The downsizing began under Knight Ridder, and accelerated after the MediaNews Group bought the paper in 2006.
 The paradox is that more people than ever read newspapers, now that some major papers have several times as many readers online as in print. And papers sell more ads than ever, when online ads are included.
 But for every dollar advertisers pay to reach a print reader, they pay about 5 cents, on average, to reach an Internet reader. Newspapers need to narrow that gap, but the rise in Internet revenue slowed sharply last year.
 ''That's another thing that made 2007 a watershed, the dawning realization that you can't expect 25 percent annual growth in digital revenue,'' Mr. Doctor said. ''Nobody knows just when this thing bottoms out, or how far down.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about financial problems in the newspaper industry misstated the circulation declines for The San Francisco Chronicle, The Los Angeles Times and The Boston Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Company. They have lost 20 to 30 percent of their circulation since 2003 -- not 30 to 40 percent. (Some of the loss came from eliminating ''sponsored'' copies that were distributed in bulk.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A patron at a newsstand in New York. Some major newpapers have several times as many readers online as in print, but grim financial reports have forced the papers to downsize. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C5) ILLUSTRATION (pg.C1)
 CHART: WHERE ARE ALL THE ADS?: Newspaper advertising revenue fell last year, but the pain has not been felt by all papers equally. Some newspapers lost more than 9 percent, while Lee Enterprises, which owns over 50 local daily newspapers, seems to be weathering the advertising crash. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (60%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (58%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



173 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Europe Spars With Serbia Over Union and Kosovo

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY and STEPHEN CASTLE; Dan Bilefsky reported from Pristina, and Stephen Castle from Brussels.

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Kosovo 

 BODY:
The European Union criticized Serbia's nationalist prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, on Wednesday for blocking plans to sign a political and economic agreement with Europe. Mr. Kostunica had called the pact a ''deception'' aimed at tricking Serbia into conceding the independence of Kosovo. 
 The pro-Western president of Serbia, Boris Tadic, who won re-election on Sunday, had backed the accord, which would expand trade, ease visa restrictions and improve student exchanges. 
 But after Mr. Kostunica made his accusations on Tuesday, the European Union said his unwillingness to back the deal made it legally impossible to proceed with the signing on Thursday. 
 Olli Rehn, the European commissioner responsible for the union's expansion, made little attempt to conceal his anger. ''I deeply regret the obstruction by certain politicians in Belgrade in blocking the signature,'' he said. 
 He accused Mr. Kostunica of ignoring the will of Serbian citizens expressed in the election of Mr. Tadic, who made European Union membership the centerpiece of his campaign. 
 Mr. Rehn, a Finn, criticized Mr. Kostunica for linking Serbia's European Union membership to the fate of Kosovo. 
 ''It is truly sad for Serbia if politicians continue to put power games ahead of their own citizens' interests,'' he said. He also chastised Mr. Kostunica's Democratic Party of Serbia for opposing the deal. 
 Ministers of Mr. Tadic's Democratic Party (which is separate from Mr. Kostunica's party) have demanded that Mr. Kostunica convene the cabinet, where they hold enough of a majority to back the signing of the Brussels pact. But Mr. Kostunica has refused. 
 Instead, he is pushing to bring the issue to Parliament, where he can rely on the votes of the Radical Party, Serbia's strongest single party, to back his case in what promises to be a showdown over the country's direction. 
 Kosovo, a breakaway province, is expected to declare independence this month, with the backing of the European Union and the United States. It has been under United Nations administration since 1999, after NATO intervened to halt repression of Kosovo's majority ethnic Albanians by the Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic. Serbs consider the territory their medieval heartland. 
 Analysts said Mr. Kostunica, who helped lead the revolution that overthrew Mr. Milosevic in 2000, was determined not to go down in history as the leader who lost Kosovo, even if that meant blocking Serbia's future with the European Union. 
 ''Serbia is heading toward disaster,'' said Zoran Dogramadziev, a prominent Serbian commentator. ''Kosovo is lost, and now we also risk losing Europe as well.'' 
 Mr. Kostunica was buttressed in his stance by the strong showing in Sunday's presidential election of the nationalist Radical Party candidate, Tomislav Nikolic, a former ally of Mr. Milosevic who contends that Serbia should punish the West for its support of an independent Kosovo by turning to Russia and China. 
 Mr. Tadic is also vehemently opposed to Kosovo's independence. But he made clear during his election campaign that he was not willing to sacrifice Serbia's future in Europe over the issue. 
 Mr. Dogramadziev said the crisis would probably cause Mr. Kostunica, whose party rules in a coalition with Mr. Tadic's, to dissolve the government and force elections. There is widespread speculation that Mr. Kostunica will try to form a new majority with the Radical Party. But Mr. Nikolic has clashed with Mr. Kostunica in the past. 
 Mr. Kostunica's stance hardened after the European Union announced this week that it had approved plans to send a supervisory mission to Kosovo to replace the United Nations administration. 
 ''The E.U.'s proposal to sign a political agreement with Serbia while at the same time sending a mission to break apart our state is a deception aimed at getting Serbia effectively to sign its agreement to Kosovo independence,'' Mr. Kostunica said.
 Officials in Kosovo said they would proceed with independence, regardless of the political crisis in Serbia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SERBIA (99%); EUROPE (95%); KOSOVO (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BELGIUM (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



174 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Seeking to Take the Image of 8th Avenue Up Another Notch

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Eighth Avenue is no longer Manhattan's answer to the Tenderloin district of San Francisco. But now that almost all of its peep shows and pornographic video stores have been eradicated, the open question is, what will this once-seedy part of Midtown become in its next life?
 Officials of the Times Square Alliance have begun a campaign to attract distinctive stores and restaurants that they hope will create an atmosphere on the stretch of Eighth between 40th and 53rd Streets that fits comfortably between tourist-thronged Times Square and the gentrifying Hell's Kitchen neighborhood to the west. 
 New street-level retail spaces are expanding as new glass high-rises, like the Hearst Tower, The New York Times Building and 11 Times Square, which is under construction at 42nd Street, redefine Eighth Avenue. The new towers have inspired the alliance to coin an immodest nickname: the Avenue of Architecture.
 But rather than wait for those new spaces to fill up with bank branches and national chain stores, the alliance, which represents property owners and businesses in the area, is hoping to attract locally owned and less-ubiquitous stores that might appeal to neighborhood residents as well as to office workers.
 ''If you live at 44th and Ninth, there's not a clothing store anywhere around, not a bookstore,'' said Tim Tompkins, the president of the alliance. 
 The area already has plenty of foot traffic; several blocks of Eighth Avenue above 42nd Street draw more than 30,000 pedestrians a day each, according to a report compiled by the alliance. But office workers in the neighborhood tend to leave at lunchtime and after work. A recent study conducted by the alliance found that more than $250 million of potential spending was being lost annually to other parts of the city.
 The first trick will be to entice the throngs passing through the area to slow down and take a look around, said Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president. Mr. Stringer's office has pledged $108,000 toward the installation of sidewalk lights and signs to help people navigate the neighborhood, he said.
 ''The key here is to get people out walking and going into a neighborhood where they didn't think they could walk, to start to create a different kind of robust economy,'' Mr. Stringer said.
 Mr. Tompkins is planning to draw more attention to the area after dark by holding a lighting festival in which lighting designers would be invited to illuminate the facades of buildings like the Port Authority Bus Terminal.
 The alliance also hopes to persuade the city's Department of Transportation to make the area friendlier to pedestrians by installing new newsstands and bicycle racks -- and by removing the metal fence (installed during the Giuliani administration to protect pedestrians) that runs along the western curb of the avenue between 42nd and 43rd streets, Mr. Tompkins said.
 ''We hate that fence. It just looks terrible,'' he said, adding that many pedestrians choose to walk in the street rather than between it and the adjacent shops. 
 Changing the perception of Eighth Avenue, which ''had a lot of porn and a lot of 99-cents shops,'' will take some time, said Faith H. Consolo, chairman of the retail leasing and sales division of Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate.
 ''I think it could be a great street to have your office on, to live and go shopping on,'' Ms. Consolo said. ''But that's a year to 18 months away. It's not happening overnight.'' Ideal shops, she said, could include higher-end women's clothing stores like Searle and stationers and gift boutiques like Montblanc.
 Still, storefront rents could run as high as $200 to $250 a square foot, she said, prices that are daunting to many small merchants and restaurateurs. 
 But, illustrating how difficult it could be to redefine the area, Mr. Tompkins cited a very different group of potential tenants. He said he would prefer to see the avenue attract ''homegrown New York merchants'' like Two Boots pizzeria and Brooklyn Industries, a casual clothing merchant.
 Lexy Funk, the president of Brooklyn Industries, a nine-store company that started in Williamsburg, said she has considered opening a store in Hell's Kitchen and might be interested in space along Eighth Avenue.
 ''We've always taken risks in our real estate,'' Ms. Funk said. ''The issue right now with Manhattan real estate is it's become too expensive for small merchants. We're competing against banks and international chains.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); BOOKSTORES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); BANK BRANCHES (52%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (57%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



175 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 645 words

 BODY:
DOCTOR'S ROLE QUESTIONED Dr. Robert Jarvik, inventor of the Jarvik 7 artificial heart, has come under scrutiny from a Congressional committee for his role as pitchman for the Pfizer cholesterol drug Lipitor. 
 MBIA PLANS STOCK OFFERING In an effort to maintain its AAA credit rating, MBIA Inc., the bond insurance company, plans to offer about 50.3 million shares of common stock -- at about $14.91 a share -- to raise $750 million. [C7.]
 CRAVING RISK French prosecutors have likened Jerome Kerviel's trading behavior at Societe Generale to a drug habit. That is no surprise to a group of scientists, who say they are starting to discover what many Wall Street professionals have long suspected -- that people are hard-wired for money. [C1.] 
 PERILS OF THE PRESS Last year started badly for the newspaper industry and ended worse, with shrinking profits and tumbling stock prices. In the last few days, several newspaper companies have reported weak December results, and they warned that the situation would worsen in a recession. [C1.]
 CHARGES IN PET FOOD SCANDAL After a lengthy investigation by the Food and Drug Administration, two Chinese companies and an American importer were indicted on charges of defrauding American manufacturers about poisonous ingredients used in pet food last year. [C1.]
 MERGER TALKS HEAT UP Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines have picked up the pace of their merger negotiations. A combination could force Continental Airlines and United Airlines into merger talks of their own. [C1.]
 A NEW GENERATION Over the years, digital picture frames have dropped in price, grown in pixels and evolved in looks. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 PRODUCTIVITY GROWTH SLOWS The Labor Department reported that worker productivity, or the amount of output for each hour of work, increased at an annual pace of only 1.8 percent in the last quarter of 2007, reflecting an overall weakening in economic activity. [C2.]
 TIME WARNER TO STREAMLINE Seeking to cut costs, Time Warner plans to split off AOL's Internet access business from its Web site and online advertising business and cut 100 jobs at its corporate unit. [C2.]
 RIO TINTO REBUFFS OFFER A day after the mining company BHP Billiton increased its takeover bid, its target, Rio Tinto, rejected the offer, saying $147 billion still undervalued the company significantly. [C4.]
 CISCO LOWERS FORECAST Cisco Systems, a bellwether stock for the technology industry, warned of a possible slowdown in orders for the third quarter as customers cut back on technology spending. [C4.]
 WAL-MART TO EXPAND CLINICS Wal-Mart plans to announce that it will upgrade its medical clinic business by adding several hundred new in-store clinics, using a standardized format and co-branding with hospitals and medical groups. [C4.]
 JOB CUTS AT MACY'SAfter announcing a 7.1 percent drop in January sales at stores open at least a year, Macy's said it would cut roughly 2,300 positions by consolidating its American operations. [C5.]
 RUNNING STRONG Despite competition from big chains and online and mail order outlets, specialty stores for running shoes have managed to survive. But they face competition from bigger players looking for a piece of their profitable action. [C8.]
 A CLEAN MACHINE For the last three years, Waste Management has been trying to clean up its name as thoroughly as it cleans up trash by spending $25 million to $30 million a year to run print and television advertisements highlighting its efforts to go green. Advertising. [C9.]
 IAC STRUGGLES WITH A LOSS IAC/InterActiveCorp posted a fourth-quarter loss of nearly $370 million, below expectations. [C9.]
 IT'S A JUNGLE BACK THERE Anyone who has tangled with the myriad cables needed to hook up an HDTV knows that the real estate behind there is crowded with ports for connectors of the past. It gets worse. Basics. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); MERGERS (90%); ANIMAL FOODS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (86%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SCANDALS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BONDS (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INDICTMENTS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); CHOLESTEROL (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (73%); SAME STORE SALES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PET FOODS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); MINES & MINING (65%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (61%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (61%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); BRANDING (60%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (85%); BHP BILLITON PLC (81%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (65%); PFIZER INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); RIO TINTO GROUP (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (85%); BLT (LSE) (81%); BIBLT (JSE) (81%); BBL (NYSE) (81%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (65%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (54%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); RIOS (BRU) (52%); RIO (NYSE) (52%); RIO (LSE) (52%); RIO (ASX) (52%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (85%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (81%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (65%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (52%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (52%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



176 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Despite Rise In Profit, Cisco Eases Its Forecast

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
Cisco Systems, the largest maker of network equipment, edged past Wall Street's second-quarter sales targets but forecast a slowdown in orders for the third quarter as European and American customers pull back on technology spending.
 The news from Cisco, a bellwether stock for the technology industry, sent the company's shares down more than 8 percent in extended trading on Wednesday, part of a broad sell-off in technology stocks.
 John T. Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, said Cisco's sales would grow only 10 percent during the third quarter, below the company's long-term growth estimate of 12 percent to 17 percent. 
 ''You are going to see bumps in spending,'' Mr. Chambers said in an interview on Wednesday. ''We think that will be relatively short-lived. But whether it's a one-, two- or three-quarter phenomenon none of us know for sure.'' Mr. Chambers said orders softened in January in the United States and to a lesser extent in Europe as well.
 To technology investors, it was the first evidence that a slowdown in demand for technology, already apparent in the United States, had reached Europe. 
 ''I don't think people thought Europe could weaken so quickly,'' said Inder Singh, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. He added, however, that it would take far worse news to have a drastic long-term affect on Cisco's overall business.
 The lowered forecast, Mr. Singh said, ''leaves room for them to potentially beat the numbers, but I don't think that will happen until July.''
 Most technology companies reported earnings in mid-January, which made Cisco, whose second quarter ended Jan. 26, the first major company to disclose its performance during January, typically a slow period. 
 Mr. Chambers tried to reassure investors, describing Cisco's business as solid despite the slowdown in January. ''My confidence is high,'' he said. The company declined to provide full-year guidance, however, because of the uncertainty.
 Cisco's sales for the second quarter were $9.8 billion, compared with $8.4 billion in the period last year, while earnings were 33 cents a share, compared with 31 cents a share last year. Net income in the second quarter was $2.1 billion, up from $1.9 billion last year.
 Excluding items, Cisco's earnings were 38 cents a share, in line with the consensus estimate of analysts, which called for earnings of 38 cents a share on $9.79 billion in revenue, according to a survey by Thomson Financial. 
 In the second quarter, Cisco's product sales increased 16 percent, to $8.25 billion, and service sales rose 18 percent, to $1.59 billion. 
 The shares declined 18 cents in regular trading, to $23.08, before the report. Mr. Chambers had told analysts in November that he expected orders from American auto and financial services companies to decline sharply during the quarter. Cisco's shares have fallen more than 30 percent since then. 
 On Wednesday, however, Mr. Chambers said that sales to the banking industry had picked up. A major point of weakness in the second quarter, he said, was among service providers.
 Cisco's performance is considered an indicator of economic growth because its products are bought by telecommunications companies and other large companies that taper off their technology investment in response to a weakening economy.
 Several major technology companies, including Apple and Intel, reported strong quarterly results in the last few weeks, but their share prices were pummeled after they issued cautious forecasts that caused concern about a slowdown. 
 In contrast, Microsoft delivered a rosy outlook last month, suggesting that a weaker economy would not slow it down.
 Last month, Cisco introduced a new network switch for corporations striving to meet demand for ways to transfer data on the Internet and the increased use of applications that draw on remote data storage, known as cloud computing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES PLAN (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%); CISCO SYSTEMS FRANCE (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



177 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: As Afghanistan Flounders, U.S. Asks Europe for More

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and NICHOLAS KULISH; Helene Cooper reported from Kabul and London, and Nicholas Kulish from Berlin. Michael R. Gordon and Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
With criticism of the war in Afghanistan increasing on both sides of the Atlantic, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Wednesday that European governments needed to convince their people that sending troops to Afghanistan -- and keeping them there -- should remain a priority for NATO.
 ''I do think the alliance is facing a test here,'' Ms. Rice said in a visit to London. ''Populations have to understand that this is not just a peacekeeping fight.'' 
 Her comments came before she and the British foreign secretary, David Miliband, left for an unannounced trip to Afghanistan, where they intend to meet with President Hamid Karzai to discuss the deteriorating situation in his country. They arrived in Kabul Thursday morning.
 Underscoring the challenge for the United States, which wants Europe to increase its troop strength in Afghanistan significantly, Germany announced Wednesday that it would send only enough additional troops to replace a Norwegian contingent of about 250. 
 The German defense minister, Franz Josef Jung, rejected a sharply worded letter last week from his United States counterpart, Robert M. Gates, asking that Germany send soldiers and helicopters to southern Afghanistan, where the heaviest fighting has taken place. Instead, Mr. Jung said Wednesday that Germany would deploy a rapid reaction force in northern Afghanistan to replace the Norwegians. 
 ''An expansion into the south is out of the question,'' Reinhold Robbe, the armed forces commissioner for the lower house of Parliament, said on television.
 In Washington on Wednesday, Mr. Gates said he planned to raise his concerns about insufficient support from some NATO allies in a speech in Germany this weekend, and Gen. Dan K. McNeill, commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan, said the international military mission there was ''under-resourced.'' 
 As the Taliban insurgency has gathered steam, Bush administration officials have been trying to prod reluctant European allies to bolster the United States contingent of about 26,000. Mr. Gates in recent days signed a temporary deployment order for 3,200 more marines in Afghanistan. 
 The entire international force totals about 40,000 troops.
 Germany is perhaps under the greatest pressure to increase its commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's force in Afghanistan. It has roughly 3,200 troops there, making it the third largest contributor, after the United States and Britain.
 Some of that pressure has come from Canada, whose 2,500 troops in Afghanistan have suffered heavy losses, including 78 deaths. Prime Minister Stephen Harper has said he will withdraw his force on schedule next year unless NATO adds 1,000 troops.
 His government said Wednesday that if NATO agreed to add the troops, it would introduce a motion in the Canadian Parliament to prolong the Canadian mission for one more year beyond February 2009.
 Referring to American pressure on Germany, Peter Schmidt, a security analyst at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin, said, ''Partners in an alliance have to also understand the domestic debates in a partner country like Germany.'' He added: ''The Americans quite often show up in Europe and the president tells us, 'Look I'll never get that through Congress.' Something similar is happening here.''
 Mr. Gates, testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee, said he had not received any responses yet to the letters he sent recently to the defense ministers of Germany and other NATO countries suggesting greater military commitments.
 ''I worry a great deal about the alliance evolving into a two-tiered alliance, in which you have some allies willing to fight and die to protect people's security, and others who are not,'' Mr. Gates said. ''There are allies that are doing their part and are doing well,'' he added, citing the Canadians, British, Australians, Dutch and Danes. 
 General McNeill, speaking at a Pentagon news briefing, said that if official American military counterinsurgency doctrine were applied, more than 400,000 allied and Afghan troops would be required in Afghanistan. 
 Commenting on the level of involvement among NATO nations, General McNeill said, ''It is probably an incontrovertible truth that if you pull a huge alliance together, that the going-in position of different nationalities of that alliance, or at least their military forces, is somewhat different.''
 Bush administration officials have been on the defensive about Afghanistan since a critical report was released last week by an independent commission whose co-chairman was Gen. James L. Jones, a former NATO supreme commander. The report concluded, ''The U.S. and the international community have tried to win the struggle in Afghanistan with too few military forces and insufficient economic aid, and without a clear and consistent comprehensive strategy.'' 
 A United Nations report this week said that opium production, which officials believe has helped to finance the Taliban and Al Qaeda, had increased. 
 Appearing with Ms. Rice in London before reporters, Mr. Miliband, the foreign secretary, signaled the growing frustration felt in Europe over the Afghan government's inability to confront the Taliban or to halt opium production. He stressed the need for a ''joint effort'' of NATO and the Afghan government and said Britain had no plans to send additional troops. ''We're not there to create a colony,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An honor guard was arranged last week for the coffin of Cpl. Etienne Gonthier, a Canadian killed near Kandahar, Afghanistan. Canada maintains 2,500 troops in Afghanistan, and 78 have died there since 2001. Canada plans to pull its troops out next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED THORNHILL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HELICOPTERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); ROBERT M GATES (78%); FRANZ JOSEF JUNG (66%); DAVID MILIBAND (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); STEPHEN HARPER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); GERMANY (95%); CANADA (94%); NORWAY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



178 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Senate G.O.P. Blocks Additions to Fiscal Stimulus Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
By a single vote, Senate Republicans on Wednesday blocked an expansive fiscal stimulus package championed by Democrats, as partisan rancor engulfed the effort to inject a quick burst of spending into the slowing economy. 
 The package needed 60 votes under Senate rules to move forward but failed 58 to 41, with 8 Republicans joining 48 Democrats and 2 independents in support of it. The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, switched his vote to no from yes at the last second, a parliamentary move that lets him control the next steps on the bill.
 The political brinkmanship in the Senate stood in marked contrast to the House, where Republicans and Democrats led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi took just a week to reach a deal on an economic stimulus package with President Bush, and just four more days to pass the bill. 
 But eight days after that House vote, the Senate remained bitterly divided along party lines with just a few Republicans, some in tough battles for re-election, willing to cross over and support the Democrats. 
 The measure was opposed by Republican leaders who said the Democrats added too many costly provisions, including an extension of unemployment benefits, tax credits for the coal industry and increased subsidies for home energy costs. 
 The total cost of the Senate plan came to about $204 billion over two years, or about $40 billion more than the House version.
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the leading Republican presidential candidate, returned to Washington fresh off his string of victories in Tuesday's voting, but he did not appear in the Senate chamber and did not vote. Adding to the partisan rancor, Democrats immediately questioned his whereabouts and seemed poised to blame him personally, and Republicans generally, for stalling the bill.
 Aides to Mr. McCain said that he would have sided with the Republican leaders and that his vote was not needed. 
 The two Democratic senators running for the presidential nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, flew in to cast their votes in favor of the Democratic bill.
 After the vote, Mr. Reid said he needed time to decide how to proceed, but aides said he was working the phones to see if he could round up one additional Republican vote.
 The White House again urged the Senate to act quickly. 
 ''It is crucial that the Senate now move quickly to pass a bill that will deliver relief to our economy,'' the press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said. 
 The partisan feuding in the Senate hardly stemmed from presidential politics alone. Mr. Reid maneuvered aggressively in recent days to strong-arm Republicans into voting for the plan. He added $1 billion in home heating subsidies for low-income families to pressure Republicans from cold-weather states. And he enlisted AARP and an array of other interests groups to lobby for the Senate plan.
 But some of those Republicans, like Senator John E. Sununu of New Hampshire, voted against the plan anyway. 
 The Senate infighting is in contrast to the swift resolution of an economic package in the House. That display of quick cooperation cast aside, at least for a moment, a year of partisan acrimony on Capitol Hill. 
 Both the House and Senate proposals contain a combination of tax rebates or payments for individuals and families and tax incentives for businesses all intended to spur spending and jump-start the economy. But under the House plan, more than 20 million Americans living on Social Security and more than 250,000 disabled veterans would not be eligible for the payments. 
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, had called for the Senate simply to adopt the House package with two changes: payments for Social Security recipients and disabled veterans, and a stipulation that illegal immigrant workers not receive payments. Mr. McConnell renewed that demand on the Senate floor just before the vote and chided the Democrats.
 Praising House Democrats and Republicans for their stimulus deal, Mr. McConnell said, ''Then, in an apparent jolt of nostalgia for last year, Senate Democrats decided to co-opt a bipartisan proposal produced by the House to put together a carefully crafted political document.'' 
 He added: ''The point here was to try to do a targeted, temporary jolt to our economy and to try to astonish the American people by doing it on a bipartisan basis rapidly. This package will not achieve that result.''
 Mr. McConnell said that he and Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, one of the Republicans whose support Mr. Reid had sought, would offer an amendment to add payments for Social Security recipients and disabled veterans to the House stimulus plan. 
 And in a dig at the Democrats and their presidential candidates, Mr. McConnell said he would be happy to rename his proposal. ''We can call it the Reid-Clinton-Obama bill as far as I am concerned,'' he said. 
 Mr. Reid and other Democrats said the Senate stimulus package would be better for the economy than the House version. They said that the direct payments would go to people more likely to spend them, and that the tax breaks would go to businesses that needed them the most.
 ''We have an obligation to do what we think is best to stimulate the economy and we have done that,'' Mr. Reid said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader, controls the next steps on the economic stimulus bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); FAMILY (72%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); COAL INDUSTRY (51%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



179 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Sara Lee Swings to a Profit

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The Sara Lee Corporation posted a quarterly profit on Wednesday, in contrast to a loss a year earlier, as the weaker dollar, new products and increased spending on marketing helped sales. 
 Sara Lee, which makes Sara Lee baked goods, Jimmy Dean sausage and Hillshire Farm deli meats, said profit was $182 million, or 25 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of $62 million, or 8 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Excluding one-time items, the company earned 22 cents a share, missing the 24 cents expected by analysts.
 Sales in the period, which ended Dec. 29 and was the second quarter of Sara Lee's fiscal year, rose 9.7 percent, to $3.5 billion from $3.2 billion. Excluding the benefit of the weak dollar, sales were up 4.2 percent.
 Sara Lee, like most food companies, has been coping with soaring costs for commodities like wheat. The company has raised prices and altered its operations in response to the higher costs.
 Sara Lee said advertising and promotion spending for continuing operations rose 14 percent.
 The company also stood by its full-year profit forecast instead of raising it, despite saying that it now expects the dollar to be even weaker against the euro than it had previously thought. A weaker dollar causes sales outside the United States to be worth more in dollars.
 The company is not reflecting the weak dollar outlook in its forecast because of concerns about volatile commodities costs and economic weakness, Brenda C. Barnes, the chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts.
 Sara Lee shares closed down 1.7 percent, to $13.74 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MEATS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); EURO (51%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: HILLSHIRE BRANDS CO (97%)

TICKER: HSH (NYSE) (97%); HSH (LSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311813 FROZEN CAKES, PIES & OTHER PASTRIES MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (97%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (97%)

PERSON: BRENDA BARNES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



180 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Shutting Down Zanan

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran and his hard-line allies rail against the United States and other external ''enemies,'' but who they really fear are their own citizens. 
 The president and his crowd are increasingly nervous about losing next month's parliamentary elections, and next year's presidential vote. Their cowardly solution? Keep potential rivals off the ballot and silence anyone who can give Iran's people a voice -- like Zanan, the country's premier women's magazine, and Shahla Sherkat, its courageous managing director. 
 The government shut Zanan down last week. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad -- with the backing of Iran's most conservative mullahs -- won election in 2005 promising economic reform and an end to political corruption. He has failed to deliver either. In an era of $100 a barrel oil, Iran's people are struggling with food shortages, high unemployment and spiraling inflation. 
 He has tried to divert attention from those failures with threats against Israel, Holocaust denials and a confrontation with the United Nations Security Council over nuclear ambitions. Iranians are not so easily fooled.
 Fearing just that, Mr. Ahmadinejad and his allies are pressing the vetting committees to keep a much higher than usual number of moderates and reform candidates off the ballot. Already large numbers of reformers have been told that they will not be allowed to run. According to government data, 8.16 percent of the current candidates for Parliament are women. That is down from 9.89 percent four years ago. Some women are now talking about trying to enter the race with an all-female slate of candidates -- challenging the government to throw them off. 
 The order to close Zanan, which means women, is the latest outrage and a sign of how much Mr. Ahmadinejad and the mullahs fear any debate. It should be reversed immediately.
 Ms. Sherkat, a former religious revolutionary turned pragmatic feminist, has kept Zanan open for 16 years and 152 issues, despite financial and political pressures. She has managed to inform her readers without overly infuriating the mullahs -- until now. According to reports from Iran, authorities said that the magazine was a ''threat to the psychological security of the society'' because it showed Iranian women in a ''black light.'' 
 The truth is, the magazine respected and celebrated Iranian women by offering articles on health, parenting, legal issues, literature and women's achievements. One recent article argued that laws codifying unequal treatment of women in Islamic countries lacked justification under Islamic law and could be changed. The only psychological threat Zanan posed was to the regime's authoritarian and anti-feminist pathology. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad may be able to stifle debate, for a while longer. If Iran's mullahs think that he's strengthening the country, they don't understand Iran's people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



181 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Ted Kennedy And The Gap

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Great job, voters. Huge turnout, good vibes and everything's still up in the air. We could be working on these presidential nominations for months. Maybe all the way to the conventions! At last, an opportunity to have really serious discussions about the makeup of the credentials committee.
 Really, it's been a surprise a minute. In Massachusetts, every Democratic alpha male in the state, including the governor and two U.S. senators, endorsed Barack Obama. Democratic women then stampeded to the polls in a great show of enthusiasm for ignoring their advice. 
 Ted Kennedy was the particular sore point. Some people looked at Kennedy's passing of the J.F.K. torch and felt their spines tingle. A lot of women saw him dumping his old ally, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, for the newer, shinier, male model of a presidential candidate and felt their spines stiffen.
 ''I don't think I understand it myself, other than I'm angry with them,'' said Barbara Wilson, a retired teacher from Quincy, Mass. ''Piling on? Yes, I definitely think it was. The old boys' club.''
 Senator Kennedy has been a champion of many issues that women care about. But when he ran unsuccessfully for president in 1980, he was victim of a major-league gender gap. This was an early example of the rule that women will not vote for men who yell.
 ''He'd go out and scream on the podium and I'd think, imagine you're a retired woman, having your dinner in front of the TV in your nice quiet house, and you see this out-of-control, red-faced guy yelling. Maybe the gap had as much to do with that as Chappaquiddick,'' one of his former campaign people told me some years back.
 We've had a gender gap in American politics since Ronald Reagan pushed the Republican Party to the right. (Featuring, in a supporting role, John McCain as the foot soldier.) Women peeled off toward the Democrats while men went the other way.
 If you look at issues, you can also see a larger pattern. Women -- especially older women -- are often politically risk-averse. They worry about the social safety net. ''They see themselves as economically vulnerable even when they're not,'' said Debbie Walsh, the director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University.
 As a group, women haven't been all that enthusiastic about big, bold, new political ventures. Their first concern tends to be having somebody sensible mind the store. All other things being equal (and all voices being modulated), when given the choice between a senator with a long history of working on useful but unglamorous children's programs and a senator who's a relative newcomer with a dramatic but not totally defined vision for change, they'll go for the day care.
 Hillary would be winning the women's vote this year even if she'd been a man. Although that's a concept I'd rather not dwell on.
 Meanwhile, the Republican far right has fallen into a remarkable snit over John McCain's march to the nomination. Rush Limbaugh is virtually gnawing his own ankle in rage. By co-authoring legislation with Democrats, Limbaugh ranted, McCain was working with ''threats to the American way of life as we've always known it.'' James Dobson says he won't vote if McCain is the nominee because of infractions ranging from failure to back a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage to ''foul and obscene language.'' Ann Coulter claims she'd support Clinton ''because she's more conservative than he is.'' 
 Once again, the reason for everything terrible about American politics for the last 20 years becomes clear. These people are nuts.
 McCain, for his part, is in the sort of good mood that people acquire when they're winning. He even had nice words Tuesday night for Mitt Romney, who didn't return the favor.
 Instead, Mitt treated his supporters to a mini-transformation. The candidate whose slogan was ''Washington is Broken'' is now the man who can stop ''America's Long-Term Slide.'' One way or another, things are really falling apart in Romneyland.
 The Republicans are fighting about the issues, in a strange, paranoid sort of way. The Democrats, on the other hand, are splitting into subsets. On Tuesday, Clinton got the white women and Hispanics, and Obama got the African-Americans. He got the youth and she got the oldth.
 This has led to a lot of worrying about identity politics. We're finding it hard to adjust to the idea that we might actually be having a nontoxic election involving a black man against a white woman.
 If either Obama or Clinton were a bad candidate, it would be irresponsible to vote for him out of black pride or for her out of sisterly solidarity. However, they're qualified, and most Democrats like them both. Since there's no real policy difference between them, it's not surprising that a lot of voters went for demography.
 No harm will be done. As long as the candidates behave. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WOMEN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



182 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: McClatchy Swings to a Quarterly Profit

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The McClatchy Company, the newspaper publisher, reported a fourth-quarter profit after a loss a year ago, but it continued to be hurt by the housing slump in California and Florida. 
 The company said it would take an accounting charge to reflect further declines in its share price.
 McClatchy said that the advertising outlook for 2008 was not any better and that it now expects first-quarter advertising to decline in the low double-digit percentage range.
 The company reported preliminary net income of $30.1 million for the fourth quarter, in contrast to a loss of $279.3 million in the period a year earlier. That included losses from The Minneapolis Star Tribune, which McClatchy has since sold.
 The latest figures did not include an expected noncash impairment charge, which McClatchy said it would announce later when it submits its regulatory filing.
 The chief executive, Gary B. Pruitt, said on a conference call that the write-down was coming because of accounting rules that require companies to adjust the carrying value of their assets, a formula that is heavily affected by share price.
 McClatchy had already taken a previous impairment charge of $1.4 billion for its third quarter to reflect its falling share price, but its share price has continued to slide, losing about half its value from the end of the third quarter.
 McClatchy's shares, like those of many other newspaper publishers, have been badly beaten down over investor concerns about vulnerability to a slowing economy and advertising losses to online rivals.
 On Wednesday, however, McClatchy's shares bounced back, reaching a high of $12 a share before closing at $10.54, a rise of 19 cents. 
 Mr. Pruitt said the company was seeing a pronounced cyclical impact from the downturns in California and Florida, as the housing slump reduced advertising revenue. Papers in those two states accounted for two-thirds of the company's revenue loss for 2007.
 In the period a year ago, the net loss was $3.40 a share. Without the one-time losses, earnings from continuing operations were 94 cents a share.
 Revenues fell 15 percent, to $573.4 million. The period a year ago included one more week than the most recent quarter. Without that effect, revenues fell 9 percent, the company said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (98%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



183 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Governor Vows to Push Again for 'Three Strikes' Law in Connecticut

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN; Sarah N. Lynch contributed reporting.

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
Opening the new session of the Connecticut legislature on Wednesday, Gov. M. Jodi Rell proposed several modest economic goals and pledged to push again for passage of a ''three strikes'' law imposing life sentences for repeat violent offenders. 
 On economic issues, the governor offered, in her annual budget speech on Wednesday, what she said was a conservative $18.5 billion budget for the 2009 fiscal year that increases spending by just under 5 percent without raising taxes. She also offered some relief by restoring the sales tax exemptions for consumers who buy energy-efficient appliances, dropping the estate tax on working farms, and eliminating a tax on small businesses. 
 Aides noted that Mrs. Rell abandoned earlier efforts to phase out the broader estate tax or amend quirks in it since they lacked support. But she did return to a proposal to set limits on how much the 169 towns and cities in Connecticut can levy in annual property taxes. 
 ''A property tax cap has been implemented in 43 other states,'' said Mrs. Rell, a Republican. ''It can and will work here.'' The only state with higher property taxes is New Jersey, her aides said. 
 But the House speaker, Representative James A. Amann, a Democrat, was doubtful. ''I don't know why she keeps dragging that old dog out,'' he said.
 Addressing criticism of chronic problems at the Department of Transportation, which she herself called ''too bureaucratic, too inefficient and too single-minded in its problem-solving approach,'' the governor proposed splitting the department. One part would focus on public transportation, aviation and ports, she said, and the other would look after the state's highways. 
 She also set aside money for 50 more engineers to oversee transportation projects. Last year, the state was embarrassed after it hired private inspectors to oversee improvements to Interstate 84, and has acknowledged that the work was shoddy. 
 In a briefing before the speech, Robert L. Genuario, Mrs. Rell's budget director, said she also supported changing the law to enable the state to spend more on smoking cessation and prevention programs. Last year, a survey by the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids found that Connecticut spent less than any other state to fight smoking. 
 Her proposals on repeat violent offenders extended the conversation she has been having with the legislature, which is controlled by the Democrats, in the aftermath of last summer's home invasion in Cheshire in which a woman and her two daughters were killed by two parolees. 
 That attack undermined confidence in the state's criminal justice system and led to a special legislative session last month. In that session, lawmakers approved a number of changes to the criminal justice system and toughened penalties for such offenses as home burglaries and home invasions, but did not pass a three-strikes provision. 
 Republican proposals to impose long prison sentences on violent repeat offenders were voted down by a wide margin, although Governor Rell, who often tries to meet Democratic lawmakers midway, had offered a compromise of providing for judicial review of an inmate's life sentence after 30 years. 
 In her budget address, she said she would no longer entertain the possibility of such judicial review. ''Now it's three strikes for violent felony convictions and you're truly out,'' she said. 
 Mrs. Rell also warned that the compromise had not gone far enough, and she said she would urge lawmakers to stiffen the penalties on burglars who enter occupied homes ''day or night.'' 
 ''Last year, our sense of safety and security was shaken in the wake of the tragedy that occurred in Cheshire,'' she told the joint session of the legislature. ''But every day there are tragedies that are occurring throughout the state, and to those involved they are no less horrific.''
 In addition, she called for the state to hire 125 additional correction officers to keep up with an inmate population that is expected to rise as the state starts acting on steps authorized in the special session by imposing minimum mandatory sentences. She also called for funds to hire more probation officers and for a new squad charged with rounding up people who violate their probation. 
 She also proposed that sex offenders be prohibited from changing their names and that they be required to carry driver's licenses with a special imprint, and she recommended that anyone charged with a serious felony give a DNA sample ''upon arraignment.''
 ''Incredibly,'' Mrs. Rell said, ''the law on the books only requires DNA samples to be taken at the end of the inmate's sentence. It is time to change that.'' 
 A co-chairman of the joint Judiciary Committee, Michael P. Lawlor, a Democrat, said that he did not think the governor's proposals sufficiently addressed the issue of prison overcrowding, and that the panel had already decided to reconsider the three-strikes law because ''people want to have a debate on it again.'' 
 Representative Denise W. Merrill, a Democrat from Storrs, said she remained skeptical of a three-strikes law or more mandatory sentences. ''None of those have been proven anywhere to have any positive results on the reduction of crime, and I'm very concerned about the increasing costs of all this,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Lt. Gov. Michael Fedele, Gov. M. Jodi Rell, Representative James A. Amann and Senator Donald E. Williams Jr.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SMOKING (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PAROLE (77%); BURGLARY (77%); SALES TAX (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); SMOKING BANS (74%); SENTENCING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (70%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (63%); SMOKING CESSATION (60%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



184 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: In Election Results, Pressure on McCain to Reconcile With Critics

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
Senator John McCain of Arizona might have expected his appearance on Thursday at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington to be a gracious makeup session with his former critics on the right. He hoped to arrive as the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.
 But Mike Huckabee's surprise success across the South this week has put an end to any thought of an easy reconciliation. Campaigning well to Mr. McCain's right on social issues and to his left on economics, Mr. Huckabee at once thwarted conservative efforts to back Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, and deprived Mr. McCain of his chance to lock up the nomination, prolonging the standoff between the senator and his foes. 
 With just 9 of the day's 21 nominating contests and less than half the total vote going to Mr. McCain, the results from the contests on Tuesday put new pressure on him to shore up his right flank at a time when he had hoped to begin preparing to take on the Democrats for more moderate voters. 
 ''He is going to have to bend, and as we know, that doesn't come easily to the senator,'' said Lee Edwards, a Heritage Foundation historian who studies the conservative movement. ''But does he want to win?''
 Some Christian conservatives, for example, say they have been urging Mr. McCain to drop his previous support for embryonic stem cell research, noting that new discoveries about the potential of adult stem cells gives him an easy out. 
 ''There are some major policy hurdles that he needs to overcome,'' said Tony Perkins, president of the conservative Family Research Council, arguing that Mr. McCain still has not ''closed the sale'' with social conservatives.
 But though still resistant to Mr. McCain, the leaders of the conservative movement are hardly ready to embrace Mr. Huckabee. A Southern Baptist minister before becoming governor of Arkansas, he won his home state, as well as Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee and West Virginia, mainly by appealing to a subset of evangelical voters. 
 ''It is kind of a Southern Baptist effect,'' said James L. Guth, a political scientist at Furman University who studies religion and politics. 
 Dr. Guth noted that Mr. Huckabee appeared to excel mainly in the counties with the highest concentrations of Southern Baptists, many familiar with his career from church publications. Mr. Huckabee fared less well in counties with more diverse groups of evangelicals. Exit polls showed that he received only about a third of the vote of born-again Christians across the country -- roughly on par with Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney.
 Mr. Huckabee campaigned with a populist message increasingly at odds with the fiscal conservative wing of his party. 
 When President Bush agreed with House Democrats on a stimulus package centered on big tax rebates, for example, Mr. Huckabee raised the hackles of supporters of free trade by arguing that the plan in effect subsidized the Chinese manufacturers of imported consumer goods. And he argued that the money would be better spent building roads, bridges and other infrastructure projects at home, irking proponents of limited government. Such ideas about economic growth ''were widely believed in Russia in the 1950s,'' said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform.
 Mr. Huckabee confounded many conservative leaders by succeeding without much support from the most visible evangelical political leaders, many of whom share their secular allies' views on economics, and over the noisy opposition of conservative commentators and talk radio hosts. And he did it after many national pundits had written off his campaign, while he was spending a small fraction of what his rivals poured into the race.
 The Web site of Christianity Today, the leading evangelical journal, declared Wednesday that the election results ''exposed divides between evangelical voters and their spokesmen.'' It noted that Mr. McCain had won a third of born-again Christian voters who ignored criticism of Mr. McCain by influential leaders like James C. Dobson, while Mr. Huckabee had dominated evangelical voting in several Southern states ''despite little official support from conservative leaders.''
 Meanwhile, conservatives have begun to debate whether and how Mr. McCain can energize his party's core, beginning Thursday at the Conservative Political Action Conference. In his broadcast on Wednesday, the talk show host Rush Limbaugh sighed in exasperation at the idea that Mr. McCain's ''reach out'' would mollify the right. 
 ''He's not getting the conservative base in this party voting for him,'' Mr. Limbaugh said. ''He's going to need that if he has any chance of winning. They may want to wipe the conservative element out of the party, but they want it back every four years for the election.''
 ''There is a greater desire on the part of members of our party,'' Mr. Limbaugh added, ''to destroy certain elements of our party, than there is a unified party desire to defeat Democrats.''
 The editors of National Review wrote on the magazine's Web site on Wednesday that ''aside from his opposition to pork-barrel spending, there is no domestic conservative cause that McCain has taken up.'' They added: ''McCain can win over most conservatives, but their support is not his by right.'' 
 Another column on National Review's Web site specifically warned him not to ''spend the bulk of the speech burnishing his conservative credentials,'' noting that ''he has tried doing that, and a lot of conservatives are still left cold.'' Instead, the column argued that conservatives would want to hear ''that he will fight for conservative ideas.''
 Others caution that any hint of concession could appear to be pandering and jeopardize the reputation for independence that is at the heart of Mr. McCain's appeal. 
 ''Throwing people bones is not really the John McCain style,'' said Jim Dyke, a veteran Republican consultant who had worked for the Giuliani campaign. ''That is not why people like him.''
 Mr. McCain, for his part, has already begun stepping up his efforts to remind his party's faithful that he truly belongs among them. ''I am a Republican,'' he said in his victory speech on Tuesday night, repeating the phrase six times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators John McCain, left, and Lindsey Graham, a supporter of his, being screened Wednesday before boarding a flight from Phoenix to Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); RELIGION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); HISTORY (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (62%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (61%); TAX RELIEF (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



185 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: The Night of the Split Decision

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Clinton Duels Obama, Takes California; McCain Surges'' (front page, Feb. 6):
 With the opportunity to make history, it is imperative that Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama make up the Democratic ticket. 
 The thought of either candidate who gets the nomination dropping the other will lose the African-American vote or the young people's vote via Mr. Obama, or will lose the female vote via Mrs. Clinton, potentially creating thousands of undecided voters. 
 Let us not interrupt history in the making while getting new blood in the White House so we can move on from the disastrous Bush administration. 
 Dave Walker North Dartmouth, Mass., Feb. 6, 2008 
 To the Editor:
 ''Two Parties, Two Paths'' (news analysis, front page, Feb. 6) echoes a frequent theme in the news media: that the Democratic competition for the presidential nomination is divisive and bitter, pitting blacks against whites, women against men, and older voters against younger voters. 
 As a Democratic candidate for the State Senate, I spend a lot of time among Democrats. I can assure you that the divisive nature of this competition has been vastly overstated.
 This year Democratic voters are facing an embarrassment of riches, and many of us went to the polls wishing we could vote for both candidates. 
 A vote for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton doesn't mean dislike for Senator Barack Obama, and vice versa. It just reflects the fact that we can choose only one person when we cast a vote. 
 Therefore I see little problem with Democratic voters rallying around whichever candidate ends up the nominee. 
 Ginny Mayer Dana Point, Calif., Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''With Issues of War and Peace on Their Minds, Voters Make Choices'' (news article, Feb. 6):
 It's difficult for me to rationalize the fact that most voters believed that the economy was the most important issue in this primary election. The economy will recover; it always does. 
 Meanwhile, the war in Iraq has claimed thousands of Americans who will never return, and tens of thousands who will return but who will never be completely whole again. A war with no end in sight. 
 George Solovay Florham Park, N.J., Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I was shocked at your claim in ''Divided They Run'' (editorial, Feb. 6) that democracy demands party allegiance above all. In noting that many of Barack Obama's supporters reported that they may not vote in the general election if Mr. Obama is not nominated, you assert ''that is not the way democracy is supposed to work.'' This choice of phrasing unfairly distorts the choice. 
 Abstaining from election participation can be a legitimate, rational decision and not only a function of apathy. You imply that these voters, after their preferred candidate is defeated, must fulfill their civic duty by voting for the best candidate who is offered to them. 
 Abstaining or submitting a blank ballot or supporting a write-in candidacy are not fundamentally undemocratic actions, as you suggest. They are, in fact, the height of democratic choice -- the freedom to support whomever you wish for the offices of the land, regardless of what the two private political parties decide is for the best. 
 Especially in light of the undemocratic nature of primary campaigns, this freedom to choose (and abstain, if necessary) is one of the bulwarks of American liberty.
 You should have encouraged Americans to vote with their hearts and minds; instead you have offered up an unflinching endorsement of bandwagon politics. 
 Josh Evans Brooklyn, Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In your editorial you write that many Obama supporters ''said they would not bother to vote if Mr. Obama lost the nomination.'' Here is one Obama supporter who will not sit out this election if my candidate loses.
 The prospect of John ''Bomb-Bomb-Iran'' McCain as commander in chief is truly frightening. We cannot afford to hand this awesome responsibility to such a notoriously volatile personality.
 And don't forget the Supreme Court. Senator McCain has pledged to nominate justices in the mold of Antonin Scalia. That should give pause to anyone who cares about reproductive rights, civil rights, employees' rights or consumers' rights.
 So I say to my fellow Obama supporters, grow up. Let's fight for our candidate, but let's unite behind the nominee if we lose. 
 I expect Hillary Rodham Clinton's supporters to do the same. To do otherwise is to abnegate responsibility for the future of our country. 
 Bill Ochs New York, Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Darkness and Light'' (column, Feb. 6):
 Maureen Dowd perfectly captures the destructive pathology of the Clintons, who seem almost gleeful that they will be in battle with the Republican attack machine throughout a Clinton presidency. 
 We are in the fifth year of a tragic, deadly and unnecessary war in a faraway land. The last thing this country needs is another four years of a truly sick and unnecessary war on our own shores. 
 If Barack Obama needs to start slaying the Clinton attack machine, as Ms. Dowd suggests, perhaps he can start by trivializing Mrs. Clinton's signature campaign theme that she will be ready to govern on Day 1. Four words: So was Dick Cheney.
 James O. Chamberlain Forest Hills, Queens, Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Maureen Dowd is obviously not a fan of the Clintons, but I am dismayed that she cannot see one bit of daylight or inspiration in the fact that a woman may get the nomination, and possibly become president of the United States. 
 We've had strong male Democratic candidates who waged wimpy, losing campaigns in the last two elections. I'm inspired by Senator Barack Obama also, but will be truly inspired when a Democrat is in the White House again. We must get there. 
 Betty Golden San Francisco, Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Cooper Concerns'' (column, Feb. 5):
 David Brooks's essential question is ''Can a person truly change?'' The year 1993 in Clinton history was long ago. Over the course of the Clinton presidency, Hillary Rodham Clinton was subjected to a public humbling few among us will ever face. It is to her credit that she not only faced it, she proceeded with a public career in her own right as a senator -- a distinguished career.
 Her plan for universal health care coverage is both a value and a commitment she has made, as she has stated over and over. Somehow we voters must learn to distinguish between inflexibility and commitment. It is her unwavering commitment and leadership position on this issue that she is communicating in 2008. 
 Jeanne James Pasadena, Calif., Feb. 5, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); IRAQ WAR (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



186 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Nearly Neighbors, but Split Over Clinton and Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and JEREMY W. PETERS; Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting from Connecticut.

 BODY:
In a Democratic primary season that has come to resemble a cousins' war, New Jersey and Connecticut offered up an intriguing question mark Tuesday night: Why did such similar northeastern states, ranked first and second nationally in income and each with a suburban locus of power, come down on opposite sides of the divide between Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton?
 Democratic voters in New Jersey gave a broad victory to Mrs. Clinton, of neighboring New York, who finished 10 points ahead of her rival. But just a few miles to the north and east, a majority of Connecticut's Democratic voters handed a 4-point win to Mr. Obama, of Illinois. 
 The question is more than just a curiosity for tired pols. As the Democratic nominating contest moves west and south again, the candidates and their operatives are still rummaging about for the key that might unlock a string of victories. What brought one state into their column and sent another the other way?
 ''It's a good question, and I'm not sure,'' said Richard J. Codey, chairman of Mr. Obama's New Jersey effort and president of the state's Senate. ''We have more white blue-collar voters, and they went for Hillary Clinton, just like in other states.''
 By contrast, he noted, the gold-leafed suburbs of Essex Fells, Montclair, and Glen Ridge gave broad margins to Mr. Obama. Looking ahead, Mr. Codey said, ''Obama's got to show blue-collar and middle-class voters that economically he's going to help control tuition costs and get gas back under $3 a gallon.''
 New Jersey voters tended to bifurcate by race and ethnicity. Black voters gave a broad electoral margin to Mr. Obama, but two-thirds of white and Hispanic voters voted for Mrs. Clinton. Connecticut, by contrast, was one of a number of states where a majority of white, often affluent voters gave a nod to an African-American candidate.
 ''Obama got big support in the African-American precincts in my district,'' said Representative Chris Murphy, a Democrat who was elected in 2006 and endorsed Mr. Obama. ''But he got margins just as wide in some of the least racially diverse towns in northern Connecticut. He seemed to transcend race here, but I have no real idea why.''
 In part, the results in these almost-neighboring states speak to their peculiar histories and politics. Connecticut is like an eccentric older uncle. Its politics are hardly radical, but its voters pride themselves on confounding pollsters and rarely hew to predictable patterns.
 In 1992, voters watched the front-runner, Bill Clinton, campaign in the primary here --and then voted for Gov. Jerry Brown, the longshot candidate from California. Lowell P. Weicker, then a longtime senator from Connecticut, was a maverick Republican, and later abandoned partisanship altogether, becoming a rare independent governor. 
 ''Connecticut is more receptive to the notion of political independence and to newcomers and fresh faces in politics than are voters in other states,'' said Ken Dautrich, a professor of public policy at the University of Connecticut.
 It is also a state much tossed by insurgent battles. Two years ago, Ned Lamont, a businessman, nearly beat the incumbent, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, now an independent, and Congressman Murphy was one of three Democrats who ousted Republicans that same year. 
 The war in Iraq remains a particular sore point here. Connecticut voters who identified the war as their top issue strongly favored Mr. Obama, according to exit polls conducted for the National Election Pool. 
 ''There's a real affinity right now for any candidate who wants to change the status quo,'' Congressman Murphy said. ''This is a state with a consistent contrarian streak.''
 That said, the same class divides that have plagued each candidate elsewhere appeared here as well. Mr. Obama won in the fancy New York suburbs, the coastal towns and the urban centers, but, collectively, ran dead-even in industrial cities such as Waterbury, Danbury and New Britain.
 Mr. Obama drew strength from a divided political class. Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut had only recently exited the presidential race himself (his name remained on the ballots). And when Mr. Obama alighted here for a campaign rally in Hartford, he summoned his best rhetorical turns and turned an audience of 17,000 into a cheering mass. 
 ''It's that political independence that Barack Obama strikes a chord with,'' Professor Dautrich said. ''It's the independence, this kind of unique Connecticut political culture.''
 New Jersey was having less truck with this star-struck business. While Mr. Obama played to joyful crowds in Jersey City, his events were smaller. Some voters affected an as-if-I-could-care stance. Eileen Gerety, 54, a retired AT&T employee from South Plainfield, spoke of all the hoopla.
 ''He's got Oprah, he's got Ted Kennedy, he's got Caroline -- they're all anointing him as the next J.F.K,'' she said, with a roll of the eyes. ''It's not about the celebrities. Get them off the stage.''
 Politically, New Jersey is a strange contraption. Despite being the nation's most densely populated state, it has no statewide television or newspaper; candidates purchase television ads in the nation's most expensive media market, New York City, or in the fifth-largest market, Philadelphia. 
 Party politics tend toward the feudal. The 21 county political bosses rule as lords, and in a state without an obvious geographic center, candidates are expected to sprinkle ''walking-around money'' on each organization. Plutocratic politicians such as Gov. Jon Corzine can master this. But outsiders often stumble. And corruption, ever present in many towns, steels voters against idealistic fevers.
 ''New Jersey is notoriously hard for candidates to connect with voters,'' said Jennifer Duffy, with the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan publication..
 Finally, Mrs. Clinton drew support from top New Jersey Democrats. Senator Robert Menendez put his political muscles to work, running bilingual phone banks and rallies aimed at Hispanic voters. This paid off, as about 75 percent of Hispanic women voted for Mrs. Clinton.
 Labor unions played a small role, seeing no percentage in choosing between friends. 
 Robert Master, legislative and political director of Communications Workers of America District 1, which has many members in New Jersey, said, ''It seemed that most of the unions were much more focused on uniting behind whoever is the candidate in November, when we are looking at a life-and-death battle.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Thursday about the results of the Democratic primaries in New Jersey and Connecticut referred incorrectly to Richard J. Codey, the president of the New Jersey Senate and a supporter of Senator Barack Obama. He is not chairman of Mr. Obama's campaign in New Jersey. (That post is shared by two mayors, Cory Booker of Newark and Jerramiah T. Healy of Jersey City.) Because of an editing error, the article also misstated the position held by Lowell P. Weicker, the Connecticut Republican, in 1992, the year that Connecticut voters chose Jerry Brown, the long-shot candidate from California, in the Democratic primary. At the time, Mr. Weicker was governor of Connecticut, not its senator.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); SUBURBS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TUITION FEES (64%); ETHNICITY (63%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (58%); JERRY BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



187 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: A Vote For 'Hope'? Not Here

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NAUGATUCK, Conn. 

 BODY:
-- Ask Sam Pollastro about Tuesday's election and the words pour out in an eager, angry, proud, bitter rush of conflicting emotions that sound like the frustrations of the American middle class bouncing off the walls of his tiny shoe repair shop.
 Taxes too high and gas too expensive. The insanity of health care. The need to hold two jobs. Billions for the war in Iraq while jobs trickle away overseas. Politicians may often be liars and crooks, he said, but only an idiot wouldn't vote for the best one running, so he cast his ballot for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic primary. 
 ''I always say I'm a Democrat from the bottom of my heart; they're the only ones for the regular people,'' said Mr. Pollastro, 69, who came to this country from Italy in 1961. ''I believe Hillary will be a better leader than her husband was, and, believe me, we need one now.''
 The Naugatuck Valley, a ragged stretch of post-industrial America that runs down the western third of Connecticut roughly from Torrington to Derby, was the main exception to Senator Barack Obama's successful run through this state on Tuesday. While the big cities like Hartford and New Haven and the high-dollar suburbs in Litchfield and Fairfield Counties voted for Mr. Obama, this area of shuttered factories and old industrial towns twisting around craggy hills and muddy rivers went solidly for Mrs. Clinton.
 The first mill opened eight years after Naugatuck was settled in 1702, and over time, the town was built around the factories that made rubber and Keds, chemicals, candy, iron castings, cutlery, clocks, metal stampings, buttons, cosmetic cases, household hardware and aircraft instruments. It gave the world Naugahyde. But the last big factory, which made Almond Joy and Mounds candy bars, closed in November, and to see two brick chimneys of an old shuttered chemical plant is to see a picture of America that still seems largely absent from this season's campaign rallies about hope and optimism.
 So for most people here, politics isn't about the reality show of racial and gender politics on the nightly news -- the first this or the first that. It's about the next job.
 ''People think of politics in terms of our senators coming here and promising how everything's going to change, and nothing changes,'' said Howard Rosenblatt, whose clothing store sits across from a field where a footwear factory once stood.
 For all the chatter on television, it would be a stretch to say it feels like an extraordinary year on the ground here. There are almost no yard signs, with the most conspicuous being for Representative Ron Paul. Democratic turnout on Tuesday was 40.7 percent, well below the 53.4 percent statewide but pretty comparable with recent races.
 Mr. Rosenblatt said people talked about the campaign's dramatic story lines and characters, but more about the personalities than the issues. And Tamath K. Rossi, the deputy mayor and a Republican, said she was surprised that even at the town board meeting on Tuesday there was not much primary talk. ''I think so many people are struggling to make ends meet,'' she said, ''they just don't pay much attention.''
 Naugatuck remains crowded with Democrats, but many of them are the Reagan Democrats the party has tried to woo back for years. Some, like John Shove, who works for a lawn care company after retiring from a union job as a prison guard, seem to have gone Republican for good. Asked about the two Democratic contenders, he said, ''The only way I'd vote for either one was if their opponent was Hugo Chavez.'' (He's not much keener on Senator John McCain, whom he terms a ''borderline RINO: Republican In Name Only.'')
 Others remain solidly Democratic, if only out of disgust with Republicans past -- ''I don't think anyone could be worse than Bush,'' said 22-year-old A. J. Bonessi -- or fear of Republicans future: ''McCain's a warmonger,'' said Mr. Pollastro. ''He scares me to death.''
 For Democrats here, most of them moderate to conservative, Mrs. Clinton seemed a safer choice than Mr. Obama. They remember the economic good times of the 1990s under President Bill Clinton. Some point to her experience. Some express reservations about Mr. Obama based on the detritus of the modern information food chain. Mr. Bonessi's friend Justin Piccirillo, 20, heard that Mr. Obama would not salute the flag. Mr. Bonessi said he's not sure of his nationality.
 ''Welcome to the All-American Valley,'' reads the sign on Route 8 south of Waterbury. It does look like America: Flags everywhere, weathered two- and three-story frame houses and apartments crammed onto the hills, the mix of ethnicities -- signs for handmade ravioli, Portuguese restaurants, the unexpected postmortem twofer of the Fitzgerald-Zembruski Funeral Home.
 In its faded way, it's still All-American. But it will take more than a few great speeches, more than the excited babble on MSNBC, more than a big rally in Hartford to convince people that the future will be better than the past.

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO: Sam Pollastro in his shoe repair shop in Naugatuck, Conn. ''I always say I'm a Democrat from the bottom of my heart,'' he says. He voted for Hillary Clinton in the primary on Tuesday. (PHOTOPGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); FOOTWEAR MFG (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SHOE & LEATHER REPAIR (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); RON PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (70%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008



188 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-10
 Army Drafts New Doctrine On Stabilizing War Zones
 The Army has drafted a new operations manual that elevates the mission of stabilizing war-torn nations, making it equal in importance to defeating adversaries on the battlefield. A1 
 Report on Bhutto's Death 
 Investigators from Scotland Yard concluded that Benazir Bhutto, the Pakistani opposition leader, died after hitting her head as she was tossed by the force of a suicide blast, not from an assassin's bullet, officials said.A3
 Benefit of Biofuels Disputed
 Almost all biofuels used cause more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if the full emissions costs of producing these fuels are considered, according to two studies. A9 
 Archbishop Calls for Sharia
 The archbishop of Canterbury called for Britain to add aspects of Islamic Shariah law alongside the existing legal system, setting off opposition among leading politicians, lawyers and others, including some Muslims.A10 
 U.S. Presses for Kenya Peace
 The American government is playing an increasingly active role in trying to restore peace in Kenya, holding hearings in Washington and threatening to ban some Kenyan politicians from entering the United States.A6 Estimate on Tobacco Deaths
 Tobacco could kill up to a billion people during the 21st century, as cigarette sales soar in poor and middle-income countries even as they drop in wealthier ones, says a report issued by the World Health Organization. A6
 NATIONALA11-17
 Romney Ends His Run; McCain Is G.O.P. Choice
 Senator John McCain effectively became the Republican Party's presidential nominee after Mitt Romney withdrew from the race, saying that the war in Iraq and the terrorist threat made it imperative that the party unite. A1 
 Economic Package Approved
 Moving with uncommon speed, Congress gave final approval to a $168 billion economic rescue package, including rebates for taxpayers and tax breaks for businesses, that lawmakers and President Bush hope will set off a rush of springtime spending and spark the slowing economy. A1 
 6 Dead at Public Meeting
 Five people were fatally shot and two others wounded after a man opened fire as a city council meeting began in Kirkwood, Mo., a generally placid suburb of St. Louis, the authorities there said. The gunman was shot to death by police. A11 Clinton Raises $7.5 Million
 Concerned that it could lose several primaries and caucuses through the rest of February, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign sought to create an alternate storyline of success by announcing that Mrs. Clinton had raised $7.5 million online so far this month. A16
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Next Level of People Power
 What if walking could actually provide electrical power? Researchers in Canada have developed an electrical generator mounted on the knee that turns walks into watts. A13 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA20-21
 Dozens Charged in Raids Aimed at Gambino Family
 Eighty-seven people, mostly members of the Gambino crime family, were arrested in the New York City area on charges of murder, racketeering and extortion after federal and state indictments were unsealed. Authorities called the roundup the biggest such sweep in memory, and it left no doubt that organized crime remains a formidable force around New York. A1 
 Slow Death After Beating
 Nixzmary Brown, an abused 7-year-old from Brooklyn, slipped into unconsciousness more than 13 hours before her stepfather, Cesar Rodriguez, and her mother sought medical help for her, a medical examiner testified at Mr. Rodriguez's murder trial. A20 
 WEEKENDB1-29; B31-38
 Grammys With No Winehouse
 Grammy producers announced that Amy Winehouse, the troubled British pop star and tabloid fixture, will not be able to attend the Grammy Awards on Sunday. Ms. Winehouse, who was expected to be the dominant figure at the 50th annual awards ceremony, has been denied a visa to enter the United States. B1 
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: 'An intolerable fraud'; final spin on the budget; too high a price for building; Lawrence Downes on green plans for blue Hawaii.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BIOFUELS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); EMISSIONS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); TAX LAW (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); LAWYERS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (51%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (72%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



189 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Moody Tuesday

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
The defining day defined nothing. So who won Super Tuesday and now what?
 I say Barack Obama squeaked a win. Hillary Clinton was supposed to have this contest wrapped up by now. Until a few weeks ago, she was the overwhelming favorite. The longer this goes on, the more Obama can establish his credentials. Already, he has turned a campaign into a movement fed by grass-roots enthusiasm.
 ''If we're going to win, it was always going to be slowly,'' Samantha Power, a senior foreign policy adviser to Obama, told me. 
 But how slow is slow? Democracy is what the United States has been willing on the world, with mixed results. This inconclusive day of nationwide primaries and caucuses means it will now get a megadose of its own medicine.
 John McCain reinforced his up-from-nowhere front-runner status for the Republican nomination without delivering a knock-out blow. He still has to convince his party's conservative base, split between the affable Baptist minister, Mike Huckabee, and the android businessman, Mitt Romney. 
 On the Democratic side, Clinton and Obama traded blows in a slugfest that could now go all the way to the convention in Denver in August. This won't be pretty. You know the movie: cigars, whiskey, money and smoke-filled rooms in Colorado as a strange species of party brass known as superdelegates do deals. 
 I love it. After the fear, aloofness and manipulation that have been the coin of the Bush administration's realm, a district-by-district battle for the Democratic nomination is what the country needed to reignite dulled senses and cowed hopes.
 A woman and an African-American, both of rare talent, are raising the political bar and ending business as usual just when America's image was most jaded.
 Clinton took the large coastal states -- New York, New Jersey, California and Massachusetts, where the Kennedy endorsement of Obama did little. Obama punctured her northeastern domination with a Connecticut win and demonstrated his appeal from Georgia to Alaska.
 She won big, but he won broader. A majority of the 22 states voting in the biggest primary day in the nation's history went to Obama. In bellwether Missouri, always a good guide to the political winds, he narrowly beat Clinton.
 Among older white women, Clinton was dominant. Hispanics and Asian-Americans flocked to her in and beyond California. She tended to do better than Obama among poorer whites. But Obama was stronger with the young, African-Americans, rural whites who had sided with John Edwards and the affluent.
 In short, the two Democrats still standing clubbed each other to a standstill.
 What counts, in the end, is the math: not who won what state but who got closer to the 2,025 delegates needed for the nomination. The Democrats' proportional system makes that calculation cumbersome, but two things are clear: Clinton and Obama are almost neck-and-neck and far from the clinching total.
 But Obama has more cause for satisfaction than Clinton.
 Money is pouring into his campaign -- about $32 million in January -- at more than twice the rate it's reaching Clinton. This could be critical as the campaign plunges on for months.
 Primaries and caucuses over the next week in states including Louisiana, Nebraska and Maryland may favor Obama, on the basis of voting patterns up to now, and add to his momentum.
 Republicans, likely to be led by McCain with his appeal to independents, are unanimous in saying they'd rather face Clinton than Obama. Many independents will never vote Clinton but might vote Obama. This calculus will weigh: the Democrats know they will seldom, if ever, get the stars so aligned for victory. Failure would be devastating.
 Obama's fundamental message seems clearer than Clinton's and has begun to resonate. He repeated it in Chicago: ''This fall we owe the American people a real choice. We have to choose between change and more of the same. We have to choose between looking backwards and looking forwards.''
 A Bush or a Clinton has been in the White House executive office for more than a quarter-century. That's a lot for a country trying to give global lessons in the renewal and alternation that are the oxygen of democracy.
 The voting on Tuesday revealed that Obama has significant problems. Hispanics don't like him; women and the older favor Hillary. He has to sharpen his economic message, especially for lower-income Americans.
 But it also revealed that his movement has permeated the country. Obama has not been ''racialized:'' white men like him. The Clintons face a fight unimaginable three months ago.
 The longer the Democrats duel, the more Republicans benefit. McCain could shore up his conservative, religious and southern base by picking the buoyant Huckabee as running-mate. That looks powerful.
 In making their own choice, Democrats now need to think carefully about how best to counter a more defined Republican challenge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SUPERDELEGATES (74%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); FOREIGN POLICY (55%); HISTORY (50%); ASIAN AMERICANS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (76%); SAMANTHA POWER (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (56%); JOHN EDWARDS (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008



190 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3633 words

HEADLINE: Cash, Charge or Save?

BYLINE: JENNIFER RITTNER and JAVAID KHAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students play a game to determine if they know the costs of common items. As consumers, they develop their own personal finance budgets to determine how they might reduce their personal spending. 

 BODY:
Overview: In this lesson, students play a game to determine if they know the costs of common items. As consumers, they then develop their own personal finance budgets to determine how they might reduce their personal spending.
Author(s):
Jennifer Rittner, The New York Times Learning Network
Javaid Khan, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Share opinions about the costs of several items they might consume.
2. Learn about consumer spending and debt by reading and discussing the article "Economy Fitful, Americans Start to Pay as They Go."
3. Prepare budgets based on real and imagined expenditures.
4. Write reflection papers that address their savings goals.
Resources / Materials:
-pens/pencils
-classroom board
-pictures of items commonly purchased by teens, with associated costs
-small poster board
-markers
-copies of the article "Economy Fitful, Americans Start to Pay as They Go," found online at http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080207thursday.html (one per student)
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do-Now: Before class, select pictures of items commonly purchased or used by teens, mounting each on a small poster board. Display them around the room. Items to include might be a cell phone, cell phone monthly service plan, pair of jeans, pair of high-end sneakers, pair of basic sneakers, movie tickets, music concert tickets, bag of chips, can of soda, bottle of Gatorade or juice, school lunch, piece of fruit, laptop computer, magazine, book, library card, backpack, handbag, bus pass, car, bicycle, sports equipment, rented violin and 3-ring binder. Write the actual price of each item on a sticky note on the back of each poster board.
At the front of the room, prepare a poster board that shows an array of items that might be purchased together or have associated uses, such as an mp3 player, 3 mp3 purchases, earphones, a laptop computer and a stereo with speakers. Write the price for the complete set of items on a sticky note on the back of the poster board.
When students enter the classroom, explain that they are going to play a classroom version of The Price Is Right. Distribute index cards (five per student). Explain that you will point to one item at a time. Students will have 20 seconds to guess the price of the item, write that number on an index card and quickly raise the card in the air. The fastest student who gets closest to the right price (without going over) wins the round. Start by standing in front of the first item and give students 20 seconds to put up their guesses. Then move onto the next item. Complete four or five rounds, choosing high and low cost items along with at least one free item, like the library card.
After the game, refer to the poster board. Ask students how they can learn about the prices of the items they might want to buy. Do they typically seek friendly or expert advice before making a major purchase? Are they more inclined to buy something at a premium (high) price or might they seek the same or a similar item on sale? To what degree do they consider their overall weekly or monthly spending before buying items that might be considered luxuries (like snack food or electronic equipment)? How likely are they to use their own or a parent's credit card to buy an item for which they do not have enough cash? Do they figure the interest they are paying on the item before they make the purchase?
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "Economy Fitful, Americans Start to Pay as They Go" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080207thursday.html), focusing on the following questions:
a. When did credit cards grow in popularity and what was the result?
b. What is the "buy-now/pay-later way of life?"
c. How has it contributed to a crisis in the personal finances of Americans?
d. What examples are offered as evidence?
e. What steps have some individuals taken to reduce their risk?
f. What does Michelle Jones mean when she says that "people have come to view credit as savings?" Why might that be dangerous?
g. What three factors does Lendol Calder cite to explain the consumer credit crisis?
h. How did unchecked spending on credit affect Fran Barbaro's life?
i. To what degree might these issues affect your own life?
j. What lessons might you learn from the cases cited in the article?
Note to teachers: Because of the personal nature of this lesson, students should not be required to share specific financial information with the class. Inform students that these are personal worksheets that they will only share with their families, as needed, and you.
3. Explain to students that they will prepare a budget that outlines their actual and wished-for personal expenses. To begin, have students create six columns on a sheet of lined paper. The left hand column should be labeled "Expenses," followed by "Cost," "One Time (X 1) or Monthly (x 12)," "Total Annual Cost," and "Paid for by (Me, My Parents, Other)" and "Paid for Using (Cash, Credit Card, Other)."
Work with the class to brainstorm the items they might include in their budgets. Begin by creating a label under their column headings titled "Necessities." Together, identify items that might fit in this category and invite students to list those that apply to them on their respective sheets. Prompt them to consider the goods and services they purchase that are absolutely essential, such as school lunch, subway or bus fare, school supplies, school clothes, rental costs on school uniforms or instruments, music lessons, tutors or test preparation fees, haircuts or medicine.
Beneath that list, have them create a label called "Luxuries." Have them expand their lists to these items, which might include cell phone and monthly service costs, snacks bought from vending machines, movie theater tickets, concert tickets, CDs, mp3 players, manicures or video games. Among those items, invite them to include any wish-list items - goods or services they would like to have but do not.
Ask students to work individually to complete their budgets by finding the cost of each item on their respective lists. Invite them to use whatever resources are available to the class, including sales catalogues, the items you posted around the room for the warm-up game and computers with Internet access.
After several minutes, prompt students to stop searching for prices and start calculating the costs. For each item, have them identify which are or might be paid for using credit cards (their own or their parents). What is the total cost of those items? Explain to students that all items paid for by credit card must be paid back with interest and write the following figure on the board: "Interest rate this month=19.5%." Have students multiply the credit card figure they calculated with the monthly interest. What is the total cost of the items they purchased using credit? Remind them that this figure must also include any wish-list items.
Write the following prompt on the board: "Based on the figures you calculated so far, if you were to spend at the pace of your monthly totals for an entire year, what interest would you owe at the end of one year?"
If time allows, have students discuss their findings. To what degree do they think that consumers consider the extent of their interest payments when making purchases on their credit cards? How might the element of desire or envy figure into their actual spending if they only had access to cash? How might that change, if at all, if they had access to credit cards? Might they be more inclined to use a credit card to pay for their necessities or for the items identified as luxuries? Why?
4. Wrap-Up/Homework: Individually, students complete their budget sheets. Before the end of class, have them write the following prompt in their journals: "Using the budget you began in class, set a savings goal that you would like to reach at the end of each month this year. It might be $1.00 or $100.00. Set a realistic and motivational goal."
Then, instruct students to add a row on the reverse side of their budget sheets that identifies their monthly income, which might include wages or allowance, if applicable. If they do not have a source of income, have them work with their families to identify a savings goal within the family budget.
Based on their respective budgets, what items might they remove or reduce in order to meet their savings goals? Have them individually write one page reflection papers that identify their personal needs and savings goals as they move toward the next phase of their lives.
Further Questions for Discussion:
-Why might envy contribute to problems with consumer spending? What steps might you take to reduce the influence of other people's spending on your own life?
-What tactics or strategies might you use to curb your personal spending in the face of peer pressure or impulse? Consider tactics like calculating the interest on credit card purchases before bringing items to the cash register, keeping credit cards or cash at home, keeping a strict budget and writing down all expenses, and having open discussions with your family about spending and savings. How might these tactics work in your household?
Evaluation / Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in the opening exercise and completion of their budgets and reflection papers.
Vocabulary:
Exuberantly, thrift, imperative, inflection, disposable, austerity, saturated, repossessed
Extension Activities:
1. Using the budget you developed in class, keep a careful accounting of your actual and wished-for expenditures for one week. Assume that you made each purchase (actual and wished-for) on a credit card with a variable interest rate currently at 22.5 percent. Calculate the amount of interest you would have to pay on your total purchases at the end of one month. If you were to spend at the pace of your weekly totals for an entire year, calculate what you would owe in interest at the end of one year.
2. Using the Times graphic, "Living Off the Housing Boom" as a model, prepare a chart or graph based on data cited in the article. Include a one paragraph description of the chart along with any captions or labels that offer further clarification.
3. Identify a financial goal that you would like to meet at the end of one year, such as putting a set amount of money into a savings account or college fund, or to make an important purchase. Devise a reasonable plan for earning and saving that money. Invent a realistic scenario in which you are employed at a job appropriate to your age range and skills. Determine the average salary for someone in that job, and record your anticipated weekly and annual income. Then record any essential expenses you might be required to cover (such as public transportation, meals and phone bills). How much money would you need to put away each day, week or month in order to attain your goal? If you discover that you are exceeding your budget, consider the items you might be willing to sacrifice. Submit a summary of your scenario and budget sheet in class along with a short reflection that responds to these questions.
4. Work with your parents to identify monthly living expenses. How can you work with them to lower a household expense and increase your family's annual savings? Keep a journal to document your efforts, strategies, outcomes and lessons learned.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
American History - Prepare an annotated timeline of pivotal moments in the United States economy starting with the establishment of the United States Treasury through to the present. Identify major upturns and crises, then choose one to examine in more detail. What were the main causes and effects of that milestone? To what degree is it still a reference point for understanding current issues in the country's economy?
Civics - Review the hearing of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Hearing and read the related document, "New York State Consumer Protection Board," available on the Committee's Web site at http://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/financialsvcs_dem/press060707.shtml to learn what steps are being taken or recommended to protect consumers. Write a letter to the subcommittee chairwoman, Representative Carolyn Maloney, with a question or comment related to the sub-committee's work.
Journalism - Investigate common terms in personal savings, such as IRA, 401K, mutual funds, stocks and government bonds. Poll parents, teachers and other adults to learn which of those services or programs they use to save or invest. Follow up with one or two interviews to learn more about the strategies adults employ in planning their financial futures. What advice might they offer teenagers who are about to be responsible for earning and investing their own money? Write an article for your school newspaper based on your findings.
Media Studies - Prepare a thorough public information campaign to warn students about the dangers of consumer spending and debt. Create helpful slogans, provide detailed information and anecdotes, and hold workshops with experts to help students plan their financial futures after high school.
Teaching with The Times - Read the Business section of The Times every day for one week and clip stories in which experts offer analyses about the state of the economy. What suggestions or predictions do they offer as a way to get the economy back on track? Do you agree or disagree? Write a one-page paper that responds to one of the suggestions or predictions. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Technology - Prepare a Podcast or video slide show that documents the state of the economy in your community. Look for evidence in retail establishments (advertisements for sales or store closings), gas prices or home foreclosures. Present your finished work in class.
Other Information on the Web:
Teen Consumer Scrapbook (http://www.atg.wa.gov/teenconsumer/index.htm) offers information and advice on economic issues that affect teens (sponsored by the federal Attorney General's Office).
United States Public Interest Research Group (http://www.uspirg.org/), Better Business Bureau (http://welcome.bbb.org/) and Consumer Reports (http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/index.htm) offer advice and guidance for consumers seeking more information about businesses, services and products.
Finaid.org is a compilation of information about how to pay for college and is found at http://www.finaid.org.
Related Times Articles Times Topics: United States Economy, http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/u/united_states_economy/index.html
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8
Behavioral Studies Standard 1- Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity and behavior. Benchmarks: Understands that each culture has distinctive patterns of behavior that are usually practiced by most of the people who grow up in it.
Behavioral Studies Standard 4 - Understands conflict, cooperation and interdependence among individuals, groups and institutions. Benchmark: Understands how role, status and social class may affect interactions of individuals and social groups.
Economics Standard 2- Understands characteristics of different economic systems, economic institutions and economic incentives. Benchmarks: Knows that in a market economic system individual households and business firms make the major decisions about production and distribution in a decentralized manner following their own self-interests; Understands the types of specialized economic institutions found in market economies.
Economics Standard 3- Understands the concept of prices and the interaction of supply and demand in a market economy. Benchmarks: Understands that relative prices and how they affect people's decisions are the means by which a market system provides answers to the basic economic questions: What goods and services will be produced? How will they be produced? Who will buy them?; Understands that the price of any one product is influenced by and also influences the prices of many other products; Understands that scarce goods and services are allocated in a market economy through the influence of prices on production and consumption decisions
Economics Standard 4- Understands basic features of market structures and exchanges. Benchmark: Understands that the United States government uses laws and regulations to maintain competition, but sometimes the government reduces competition unintentionally or in response to special interest groups.
Language Arts Standard 8 - Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; Asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas; Uses strategies to enhance listening comprehension.
Mathematics Standard 1- Uses a variety of strategies in the problem-solving process. Benchmarks: Understands how to break a complex problem into simpler parts or use a similar problem type to solve a problem; Uses a variety of strategies to understand problem-solving situations and processes; Understands that there is no one right way to solve mathematical problems but that there are different methods; Formulates a problem, determines information required to solve the problem, chooses methods for obtaining this information, and sets limits for acceptable solutions; Represents problem situations in and translates among oral, written, concrete, pictorial and graphical forms; Constructs informal logical arguments to justify reasoning processes and methods of solutions to problems; Uses a variety of reasoning processes.
Mathematics Standard 9- Understands the general nature and uses of mathematics. Benchmarks: Understands that mathematics has been helpful in practical ways for many centuries; Understands that mathematicians often represent real things using abstract ideas like numbers or lines--they then work with these abstractions to learn about the things they represent.
Grades 9-12
Behavioral Studies Standard 1 - Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity and behavior. Benchmarks: Understands that social distinctions are a part of every culture, but they take many different forms (e.g., rigid classes based solely on parentage, gradations based on the acquisition of skill, wealth and education); Understands that people often take differences (e.g., in speech, dress, behavior, physical features) to be signs of social class; Understands that the difficulty of moving from one social class to another varies greatly with time, place and economic circumstances Economics Standard 2- Understands characteristics of different economic systems, economic institutions and economic incentives. Benchmarks: Understands that economic institutions have different goals, rules and constraints, and thus respond differently to changing economic conditions and incentives.
Economics Standard 3- Understands the concept of prices and the interaction of supply and demand in a market economy. Benchmarks: Understands that the demand for a product will normally change if there is a change in consumers' incomes, tastes and preferences, or a change in the prices of related; Understands that the supply of a product will normally change if there is a change in technology, in prices of inputs, or in the prices of other products that could be made and sold by producers; Understands that shortages or surpluses usually result in price changes for products in a market economy.
Economics Standard 4- Understands basic features of market structures and exchanges. Benchmarks: Understands that the introduction of new products and production methods by entrepreneurs is an important form of competition and source of technological progress and economic growth; Understands that when transaction costs decrease, more specialization and trading will occur.
Language Arts Standard 8 - Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes. Benchmarks: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions; Uses a variety of strategies to enhance listening comprehension; Adjusts message wording and delivery to particular audiences and for particular purposes (e.g., to defend a position, to entertain, to inform, to persuade).
Mathematics Standard 1- Uses a variety of strategies in the problem-solving process. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of strategies to understand new mathematical content and to develop more efficient solution methods or problem extensions; Constructs logical verifications or counter examples to test conjectures and to justify algorithms and solutions to problems; Understands connections between equivalent representations and corresponding procedures of the same problem situation or mathematical concept; Understands the components of mathematical modeling
Mathematics Standard 9- Understands the general nature and uses of mathematics. Benchmarks: Understands that mathematics is the study of any pattern or relationship, but natural science is the study of those patterns that are relevant to the observable world; Understands that mathematics began long ago to help solve practical problems; however, it soon focused on abstractions drawn from the world and then on abstract relationships among those abstractions; Understands that theories in mathematics are greatly influenced by practical issues--real-world problems sometimes result in new mathematical theories and pure mathematical theories sometimes have highly practical applications; Understands that mathematics provides a precise system to describe objects, events and relationships and to construct logical arguments.

        
Economy Fitful, Americans Start to Pay as They Go

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); WRITERS (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SPORTS DRINKS (75%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); MUSIC (69%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%) Economics; Global Economics; Mathematics; Practical Math

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011



191 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Too High a Price for Building

 BODY:
The cost of New York City's failure to adequately regulate the construction industry was made tragically clear again last month when a worker pouring concrete fell 42 stories to his death during work on a Trump hotel in SoHo. The city is now starting to take some overdue steps to force contractors to operate more safely. For the sake of the workers, and pedestrians below, we hope that these reforms are adopted right away. 
 The city's construction boom has provided important aid to the economy. But there is no excuse for the large number of construction-related deaths: a dozen last year, and 18 the year before. Concrete pouring appears to be particularly dangerous in New York. Since 2006, three concrete workers have died and another 16 were injured. When people on the ground are also threatened, it is often over poorly performed concrete work. 
 This week, the city's Buildings Department announced a plan for stricter regulations, beginning with a requirement that general contractors and concrete operators get licenses. Amazingly, under the current rules anyone who wants to engage in the risky business of pouring concrete on building sites high above the city has to do little more than just show up. The department also, quite properly, wants to start requiring more job site safety managers.
 The New York City Council, and Speaker Christine Quinn, have also taken a keen interest in construction safety and have begun to call for rules that have real enforcement teeth. The rules should be backed up with a tough process for banning contractors who violate them.
 It is clear that the current system of citations and fines has amounted, for some builders, to no more than the cost of doing business. A good safety record should be in a contractor's interest. Unfortunately, it seems that reasonable care is too often forgotten in the rush to complete work and keep construction costs down.
 New York continually reinvents itself with new construction. That is part of its excitement and its strength. But it has to find a way to get new buildings up without putting workers, and the public, at undue risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POURED CONCRETE CONTRACTORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



192 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: A Long Story

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The economic news has been fairly dire this week. The credit crunch is getting worse, and a widely watched indicator of trends in the service sector -- which is most of the economy -- has fallen off a cliff. It's still not a certainty that we're headed into recession, but the odds are growing greater.
 And if past experience is any guide, the troubles will persist for a long time -- say, into the middle of 2010. 
 The problems now facing the U.S. economy look a lot like the problems that caused the last two recessions -- but this time in combination. 
 On one side, the bursting of the housing bubble is playing the role that the bursting of the dot-com bubble played in 2001. On the other, the subprime crisis is creating a credit crunch reminiscent of the crunch after the savings-and-loan crisis of the late 1980s, which led to recession in 1990.
 Now, you may have heard that those recessions were short. And it's true that the last two recessions both officially ended after only eight months.
 But the official end dates for those recessions are deeply misleading, at least as far as most peoples' experience is concerned. There's a reason that the Bush administration, in its (increasingly strained) efforts to tout economic performance on its watch, always talks about jobs added since August 2003. It was only then -- two and a half years after the recession began -- that the U.S. economy began to experience anything that felt like a recovery.
 And the same thing happened a decade earlier: the recession that began in 1990 officially ended in March 1991, but the jobless recovery that followed kept Americans feeling miserable about the economy right up through the 1992 election.
 Since the current problems of the U.S. economy look like a combination of 1990 and 2001, the shape of this episode of economic distress will probably be similar to that of the earlier episodes: even if the official recession is short, the bad times will linger well into the next administration.
 How severe will the distress be? The double-bubble nature of the underlying problem -- a housing bubble and a credit bubble combined -- suggests that it may well be worse than either 1990 or 2001.
 And some highly respected economists are issuing dire warnings. There has been a lot of buzz about a new paper by Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff that compares the United States in recent years to other advanced countries that have experienced financial crises. They find that the U.S. profile resembles that of the ''big five crises,'' a list that includes, for example, Sweden's 1991 crisis, which caused the unemployment rate to soar from 2 percent to 9 percent over a two-year period.
 Maybe we'll be lucky, and that won't happen. But what can be done to limit the damage?
 Since September, the Federal Reserve has slashed its target interest rate five times, and everyone expects it to cut further. But interest rates were cut dramatically during the last two slumps, too -- yet the slumps went on for years anyway.
 Meanwhile, Congress and the Bush administration have reached agreement on a much-hyped stimulus package. But the package, while probably better than nothing, is unlikely to make a noticeable dent in the problem -- in part because the insistence of the administration and Senate Republicans on blocking precisely the measures, such as expanded unemployment insurance and food stamps, that are most likely to be effective. 
 Still, by January the White House will have a new occupant. If the slump is still going on, which is likely, this will offer a chance to consider other, more effective measures. 
 In particular, now would be a good time to think about the possibility of going beyond tax cuts and rebate checks, and stimulating the economy with some much-needed public investment -- say, in repairing the country's crumbling infrastructure. 
 The usual rap against public spending as a form of economic stimulus is that it takes too long to get going -- that by the time the money starts flowing, the recession is already over. But if this turns out to be a prolonged slump, which seems likely, that won't be a problem.
 But we won't get any innovative action to help the economy unless the next president has a couple of key attributes. 
 First, he or she has to be free of the ideological blinders that make the current administration and its allies fiercely oppose the idea that the government can do anything positive aside from cutting taxes.
 Second, he or she has to be knowledgeable about and interested in economic policy. Presidents don't have to be their own chief economists, but they do need to know enough to take the right advice.
 Will we have that kind of president? Stay tuned. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



193 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Iran Is Reported to Test New Centrifuges to Make Atomic Fuel

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Iran has reportedly begun to deploy a new generation of machinery to produce nuclear fuel, a development bound to intensify a debate in Washington about whether a recent National Intelligence Estimate accurately portrayed Tehran's progress toward the ability to build a nuclear weapon.
 The testing of the new machinery, centrifuges known as IR-2s, was disclosed by European diplomats and American officials and was reported over the past two days in Europe. The development is expected to be included in a report this month by the International Atomic Energy Agency about Iran's nuclear progress, and whether it has finally resolved questions about activities that have led inspectors to suspect that it may be pursuing weapons. 
 Centrifuges spin at enormously high speeds to enrich uranium, which can be used to fuel nuclear reactors or, after more processing, nuclear weapons. The IR-2 is an Iranian improvement on a Pakistani design that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad boasted in an April 2006 speech would quadruple Iran's enrichment powers.
 Reports about the new centrifuges were made just two days after the director of national intelligence, Mike McConnell, told Congress that he had regrets about how the National Intelligence Estimate had been written. He was responding to criticism that the report had left the impression that Iran was no longer seeking a nuclear weapons capability.
 The National Intelligence Estimate said that late in 2003 Iran ceased work on a weapons design -- but it noted later that Iran was continuing to enrich uranium. Nuclear experts say that building an atomic warhead is less of an engineering challenge than producing the fuel for the weapon.
 Mr. McConnell confirmed that in his testimony on Tuesday, saying that weapons design was ''probably the least significant part of the program'' and that Iran's refusal to halt uranium enrichment meant that it still posed a potential nuclear threat. 
 ''In retrospect,'' he said, ''I would do some things differently.''
 Iran contends that its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes and that the enrichment will produce fuel for its nuclear plants.
 The White House seized on the news about the new centrifuges to argue Thursday that sanctions against Iran should be increased, despite the National Intelligence Estimate's findings. Gordon D. Johndroe, the spokesman for the National Security Council, said that ''if the reports are true, Iran is ramping up its enrichment activities, and this is just a demonstration that they continue to ignore the U.N. Security Council.''
 He added that ''the recent N.I.E. indicated that enrichment activity could be used for nuclear weapons purposes, and the international community is united that Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon.''
 White House officials and outside experts have said that the intelligence estimate took the pressure off Iran. Indeed, the estimate won praise from many experts, who said that previous assessments had overstated the threat from Iran. But for others the disclosure of the new centrifuges suggested the need to keep up the pressure. 
 ''The key question is whether this would speed up the day when they could have a break out capability -- the ability to make a small arsenal,'' said Gary Samore, the director of studies and a vice president at the Council on Foreign Relations and an expert on the Iranian program. Mr. Samore said the National Intelligence Estimate had played to the interests of Russia and China, which ''didn't want their core economic and political connections to Iran to be threatened.''
 ''This gave them the pretext'' to water down the sanctions, he said. 
 The new centrifuges have begun to be installed at Iran's main enrichment complex at Natanz, the officials said. But European news reports on Thursday said no uranium had been fed into the machines. 
 Experts said Iran's design for the IR-2 centrifuge showed considerable technical creativity. 
 In an interview, a senior European nuclear official who monitors the Iranian program said the IR-2 was ''more ingenious'' than its predecessor, an unreliable machine called the P-1, with the ''P'' reflecting its Pakistani origins. The official insisted on anonymity because of the political delicacy of the issue. 
 A report released Thursday by the Institute for Science and International Security, a private group in Washington that tracks nuclear proliferation, said the Iranian-made machine was designed to be efficient and reliable. 
 The report said that if Iran could build 1,200 centrifuges of the new design, it could produce enough weapons-grade uranium for a bomb in one year. Iran would need 3,000 of the current generation of machines to get the equivalent output. It has built that many, experts say, but has had difficulty keeping them running.
 At the core of the new centrifuge design is a thin, tubelike rotor made of carbon fibers rather than maraging steel, a variety with great strength, the institute's report said. Iran has had difficulty making or buying strong maraging steel, largely because the West has stopped shipments headed to the country.
 But the report suggested that Iran would need to buy other materials from foreign suppliers -- which gives the Untied States and its allies a chance to disrupt the supply chain. It is not clear whether Iran has enough parts to make the new machines in large quantities. 
 The existence of the IR-2s began to come to light last month after Tehran let senior International Atomic Energy Agency officials visit a complex for the machine's development. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); CENTRIFUGES (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ENGINEERING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TESTIMONY (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (59%); MIKE MCCONNELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN (90%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



194 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 722 words

 BODY:
RATINGS AGENCIES TRY AGAIN Under fire for assigning triple-A ratings to many bonds backed by risky subprime home loans, Standard & Poor's and Moody's are scrambling to restore confidence in their credit ratings. Their proposals have met with skepticism. 
 QUANDARY AT YAHOOJerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, faces enormous pressure as he decides whether to try to rescue the company from the clutches of Microsoft, which intends to buy it, or accept the offer and watch the company he founded become part of Microsoft's no-holds-barred brawl with Google. [C1.] 
 PICKING UP THE PIECES At the American Securitization Forum this week in Las Vegas, promoters of the kind of wizardry that aims to turn risky mortgages into gilt-edged securities came to sip Cabernet and lick their wounds. They also looked for ways to profit from the economic mess their industry helped to create. [A1.] 
 CONGRESS PASSES RESCUE BILL Moving with uncommon speed, Congress gave final approval to a $168 billion economic rescue package, including rebates for taxpayers and tax breaks for businesses, that lawmakers and President Bush hope will spark the slowing economy. [A1.] 
 TALKING BEHIND THE SCENES 
 The boards of the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East may end their walkout as early as next week, and the breakthrough appears to be the result of two intermediaries who worked as conduits between the unions and management. [C1.] 
 A TANGLED ESTATE A lawsuit filed by two court-appointed trustees of the estate of James Brown, the legendary soul singer, accuses his longtime business managers of looting millions of dollars from Mr. Brown. [C1.] 
 EXXON VS. VENEZUELA Exxon Mobil has won court orders freezing as much as $12 billion in petroleum assets controlled by Venezuela's government. [C2.] 
 DEUTSCHE BANK UNSCARRED Deutsche Bank can be added to the short list of global banks that avoided being badly burned by the subprime bonfire. [C3.] 
 BAIL HEARING FOR TRADER Jerome Kerviel, the Societe Generale trader accused of losing $7.1 billion in illegal trades, faces a pivotal hearing Friday that will determine whether he remains free pending a trial. [C5.] 
 RATE CUT IN EUROPE'S FUTURE? The European Central Bank hinted that it might soon follow the Federal Reserve's lead and cut interest rates. [C3.]
 A GAZPROM THREAT Gazprom, the world's largest natural gas company, threatened to halt fuel supplies to Ukraine unless that country settled a $1.5 billion debt by Monday or offered assurances that it would pay. [C4.] 
 SEATTLE'S FERTILE SOIL Many communities dream of becoming the next Silicon Valley. The Seattle area is actually doing it, with a ''start-up ecosystem'' that encourages off-shoots from giants like Microsoft, Amazon.com, and Google. VC Nation. [C6.] 
 WASHINGTON POST'S PUBLISHER Katharine Weymouth will become publisher of The Washington Post, its parent company announced. Ms. Weymouth, who has worked in the company since 1996, is a niece of Donald E. Graham, the chairman of the Washington Post Company, and the granddaughter of Katharine Graham. [C3.] 
 A NEW AUDIENCE Jay-Z, below, the Grammy-winning rapper and entrepreneur, is joining forces with another African-American entrepreneur, Steve Stoute, to open Translation Advertising, an agency that will help marketers reach multicultural consumers. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.] 
 AN UPTURN, FOR A CHANGE Wall Street finished moderately higher in fitful trading as investors, still nervous about the economy, decided to buy back into a stock market. [C7.] 
 CARBON COST OF BIOFUELS
 Almost all biofuels cause more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if the full emissions costs of producing these ''green'' fuels are taken into account, two new studies have concluded. [A9.] 
 TOBACCO'S PROJECTED TOLL
 Tobacco could kill up to a billion people during the 21st century, as cigarette sales soar in poor and middle-income countries, according to a World Health Organization report funded by New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's foundation. [A6.] 
 QUESTIONS OVER LIPITOR AD 
 A Congressional committee investigating the Lipitor advertising campaign featuring Dr. Robert Jarvik wants information about payments to people who might have served as stunt doubles for the doctor in televised ads. [C3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); BAIL (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); WRITERS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (66%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); OAO GAZPROM (63%); GOOGLE INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA WEST (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (66%); OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); GLE (PAR) (53%); GLE (BIT) (53%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



195 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Weak January Dashed Retailers' Gift-Card Hopes

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Here is a sign of how shaky the economy is becoming: Wal-Mart says its shoppers are redeeming their holiday gift cards for basic items -- pasta sauce, diapers, laundry detergent -- rather than iPods and DVDs.
 Merchants had hoped that shoppers with gift cards would provide a lift after a slack holiday season, partly because they tend to spend more than the value of the card. But that did not seem to happen last month, and retailers are feeling the pain. 
 On Thursday, the nation's retailers turned in their worst January in almost four decades as high gasoline and food prices, the slumping housing market, tighter credit and tougher job prospects pushed some consumers to the edge.
 Sales at 43 retailers surveyed by the UBS-International Council of Shopping Centers rose just 0.5 percent in January, well below a forecast of 1.5 percent.
 The results, based on same-store sales -- those at stores open at least a year -- followed a 0.7 percent growth pace in December and were below the 2.1 percent gain for all of 2007.
 ''Gift cards are being used as a secondary way to save,'' said Burt P. Flickinger III, managing director of the Strategic Resource Group, a retail consulting firm in New York.
 Even at department stores, he said, consumers are using gift cards to buy basic apparel like socks and lingerie.
 The information from Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, that gift card redemptions were below expectations and people were buying only necessities shook up industry analysts. Retailers record gift-card revenue only when the cards are redeemed.
 ''It shows you the level of worry,'' said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist at the International Council of Shopping Centers. Even with money in their hands, he said, consumers were not willing to spend on anything more than necessities.
 Still, the share prices of several retailers rose Thursday as many either confirmed their earnings forecasts or raised them, signaling that they were able to control their inventories.
 Hot Topic and Wal-Mart stuck with their outlooks, while Pacific Sunwear of California, Wet Seal and Gap raised their profit guidance despite lower sales.
 Department stores and mall-based apparel retailers, though, posted steep sales declines. At J. C. Penney, same-store sales at its department stores dropped 1.9 percent, though that was better than the 6.3 percent decline expected in a Thomson Financial analyst survey.
 Nordstrom reported a 6.6 percent decline in same-store sales, much worse than the 0.7 percent decrease expected.
 Macy's had already reported a 7.1 percent decrease in same-store sales on Wednesday, worse than expected. A spokesman, Jim Sluzewski, acknowledged that gift-card sales and redemptions were weaker than last year, reflecting a slower sales trend over all. Macy's does not track how shoppers use their gift cards.
 Saks fared better, saying that same-store sales rose 4.1 percent, better than the 2.2 percent estimate. But the retailer said shoppers were shifting more of their spending to sale merchandise.
 Discount retailers have held up better as higher-income shoppers opt for less expensive stores. But their traditional customers are cutting back as well. Target reported a 1.1 percent decline in same-store sales in January, worse than the 0.6 percent decline that analysts expected.
 Wal-Mart reported a 0.5 percent gain in same-store sales, sharply lower than the 2 percent increase expected. The company said it continued to do well with basics like groceries, but home furnishings remained weak.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''Retail Sales in January'' The chart shows Goldman Sachs retail composite index: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year. Another chart shows sales results are for the five weeks ended Feb. 2, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. (Source: Goldman Sachs & Company, based on company reports.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (75%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TRENDS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); FOOD PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (76%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (61%); PACIFIC SUNWEAR OF CALIFORNIA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (76%); PSUN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (76%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (54%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (54%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (54%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



196 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Market Shakes Off 3-Day Losing Streak

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished moderately higher in fitful trading Thursday as investors, still nervous about the economy, decided to buy back into a stock market pummeled by three consecutive days of losses. 
 Before Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen by 543 points, or 4.26 percent, this week, giving up all of last week's sharp gains.
 Though the market ended up rising Thursday, trading was extremely uneven because of gloomy data, including declining January sales at major retailers, a drop in December home sales and a disappointing outlook from the Internet networking supplier Cisco Systems. The major indexes seesawed throughout the day.
 The Dow rose 46.90, or 0.38 percent, to 12,247.00, after trading down about 80 points and up about 130. The index remains more than 13 percent below its record close on Oct. 9, 2007, of 14,164.53.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.46, or 0.79 percent, to 1,336.91. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 14.28, or 0.63 percent, to 2,293.03.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 10.29, or 1.49 percent, to 702.78.
 A rise in the value of the dollar may have encouraged some investors. The dollar's decline over the last several months has contributed to worries about inflation and a possible drop in foreign interest in American investments.
 Peter I. Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, said the dollar's advance followed remarks by the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, that the United States and Europe remain economically intertwined. This suggested to investors that strength in other countries could help stabilize the United States during its rough patch. 
 Also spurring bargain hunting Thursday was the belief that a recent spate of negative economic data made it more likely that the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates again. Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said Thursday that the Fed's ''focus, religiously, is on the general economy, the real economy.''
 Late Wednesday, Cisco issued a 10 percent sales growth forecast for its current quarter, well below the 15 percent Wall Street projected. But Cisco finished up 30 cents, at $23.38, after some investors saw the stock as undervalued.
 And in a counterintuitive move, retail stocks -- also regarded as cheap right now -- rose even after the nation's retailers logged their worst January in about 40 years. 
 But on top of the mostly weak retail reports, the National Association of Realtors said pending sales of existing homes fell 1.5 percent in December. The Labor Department reported that jobless claims fell last week by 22,000, though that was a smaller decline than many economists had predicted.
 Light crude oil rose 97 cents, to $88.11 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 1 11/32, to 97 28/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.76 percent, from 3.59 percent.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 30-year bonds:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer) ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (73%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (64%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (73%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



197 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2310 words

HEADLINE: Movies

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 
 'ALICE'S HOUSE' (No rating, 1:30, in Portuguese) Chico Teixeira's languid, libidinous film observes a messy Sao Paolo apartment where Alice (the wonderful Carla Ribas) copes with an ailing mother, three teenage sons and an unfaithful husband. Simultaneously delicate and earthy, ''Alice's House'' anchors its soap opera plotlines -- adultery, avarice and incipient blindness -- in the tired body and vaguely ruined features of its dreamy heroine. 
 (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'BEAUFORT' (No rating, 2:05, in Hebrew) Joseph Cedar's tense drama takes place at a fortress in Lebanon captured by Israel in the 1980s. The last group of Israeli soldiers is preparing to withdraw, under attack from Hezbollah and with decided ambivalence. The movie's earnest sobriety helps it through passages of tedium and occasional bouts of combat-picture cliche. (A. O. Scott) 
 'THE BUSINESS OF BEING BORN' (No rating, 1:27) This documentary is a ground-level examination of home childbirth, and a passionate argument for its benefits, anchored in a scene in which its executive producer, the actress and former talk-show host Ricki Lake, gives birth to her second child in a bathtub. 
 (Stephen Holden) 
 'CARAMEL' (PG, 1:36, in Arabic and French) Set in a Beirut beauty salon, Nicole Labaki's debut feature presents a charming, if somewhat familiar, tableau of female friendship and mild melodrama. (Scott)
 'CASSANDRA'S DREAM' (PG-13, 1:45) A well-matched Ewan McGregor and Colin Farrell play brothers in blood and deed in Woody Allen's London-based, dark-hearted, effective tragedy. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CHARLIE WILSON'S WAR' (PG-13, 1:36) Tom Hanks plays the hard-drinking, skirt-chasing Texas congressman who helped finance the Afghan resistance to Soviet occupation in the 1980s. Julia Roberts and Philip Seymour Hoffman are terrific as his co-conspirators in this remarkably jaunty excursion into cold war covert operations. (Scott) 
 'CLOVERFIELD' (PG-13, 1:24) OMG! It's, like, totally the end of the world!! (Dargis)
 'THE EYE' (PG-13, 1:37) Yet another Western deconstruction of a successful Asian horror movie, this one features a vapid Jessica Alba as a blind violinist whose cornea transplant yields the ability to see dead people. But while the original was an insinuating ghost story that cleverly exploited cinema's fascination with all things ocular, this louder and more literal remake only highlights the debt owed by both to ''The Sixth Sense.'' (Catsoulis)
 'FIRST SUNDAY' (PG-13, 1:36) Ice Cube and Tracy Morgan rob a church and find redemption. Meanwhile Katt Williams, as the flamboyant choir director, steals the movie. (Scott)
 '4 MONTHS, 3 WEEKS AND 2 DAYS' (No rating, 1:53, in Romanian) In this ferocious, unsentimental film from the Romanian writer and director Cristian Mungiu the camera doesn't follow the action, it expresses consciousness itself. This consciousness -- alert to the world and insistently alive -- is embodied by a young university student who in the late 1980s helps her roommate with an illegal abortion in Ceausescu's Romania. It's a pitiless, violent story that in its telling becomes a haunting and haunted intellectual and aesthetic achievement. (Dargis) 
 'HANNAH MONTANA & MILEY CYRUS: BEST OF BOTH WORLDS CONCERT' (G, 1:14) This 3-D concert movie, offering musical highlights of Miley Cyrus's recent sellout tour, offers little in the way of revealing backstage glimpses of the star. But that won't bother your daughter if she's a ''Hannah Montana'' fan. Good luck getting tickets. (Andy Webster)
 'HOW SHE MOVE' (PG-13, 1:34) This feature by the director Ian Iqbal Rashid (''Touch of Pink''), about a disaffected young woman competing in dance contests, is the latest incarnation of the up-by-your-bootstraps musical drama. There's nary a twist you don't see coming. But the film's strong acting, spectacular dance routines and culturally specific details turn cliche into catharsis. It's the sort of film that sends you home with a spring in your step. 
 (Matt Zoller Seitz) 
 'JUNO' (PG-13, 1:31) A sharply written and acted coming-of-age comedy, starring the remarkable Ellen Page as Juno MacGuff, a teenager who deals with her unanticipated pregnancy in unexpected ways. (Scott)
 'LIVE AND BECOME' (No rating, 2:20, in Amharic, Hebrew and French) Fundamental issues of ethnic and religious identity and the agony of exile go to the heart of ''Live and Become,'' an intermittently compelling swatch of recent Israeli history filtered through the experience of an African immigrant. With epic aspirations that are only partly realized, the movie aspires to be something like a contemporary ''Exodus'' from an outsider's point of view. (Holden)
 'MEET THE SPARTANS' (PG-13, 1:32) In this redundant and tasteless spoof of the film ''300,'' King Leonidas (Sean Maguire) and 13 faithful boyfriends -- er, soldiers -- face off against the Persians and an avalanche of pop-culture detritus. Meanwhile the writers and directors, Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer (whose fingers have been in everything from the ''Scary Movie'' franchise to the more recent ''Epic Movie''), continue to prove that ridiculing other movies is much easier than making your own. (Catsoulis) 
 'NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN' (R, 2:02) Mean, violent and impeccable, Joel and Ethan Coen's adaptation of a pulpy, compact novel by Cormac McCarthy lives and breathes in the central performances of Tommy Lee Jones, Josh Brolin and Javier Bardem, who chase one another, $2 million and metaphysical truth through the Texas back country. (Scott)
 'OVER HER DEAD BODY' (PG-13, 1:37) Eva Longoria Parker is a jealous ghost, trying to prevent her one-time fiance (Paul Rudd) from falling for a pretty psychic (Lake Bell). There is also a wacky sister and a gay friend. It sounds much funnier than it is. (Scott)
 'PERSEPOLIS' (PG-13, 1:35, in French) Marjane Satrapi's adaptation of her graphic novel-memoir is a free-spirited coming-of-age story, beautifully drawn and voiced by a formidable trio of French movie stars. (Scott) 
 'PRAYING WITH LIOR' (No rating, 1:28) Filmed in a close-knit Jewish Reconstructionist community in Philadelphia, ''Praying With Lior'' documents the extraordinary life of Lior Liebling, a rabbi's son with Down syndrome and an obsessive love of prayer. But while family and friends marvel over Lior's putative spirituality, the director, Ilana Trachtman, patiently teases out the tricky dynamics of a family dealing with a disabled child. (Catsoulis)
 'THE SAVAGES' (R, 1:53) Tamara Jenkins's beautifully nuanced tragicomedy involves two floundering souls -- a middle-aged brother and sister played with force and feeling by Philip Seymour Hoffman and Laura Linney -- who are suddenly left to care for their infirm father (Philip Bosco). There isn't a single moment of emotional guff or sentimentality in ''The Savages,'' a film that periodically caused me to wince, but also left me with a sense of acute pleasure, even joy. (Dargis)
 'STILL LIFE' (No rating, 1:48, in Mandarin) A modern master of postmodern discontent, Jia Zhang-ke is among the most strikingly gifted filmmakers working today. In his documentary-inflected fictions he weighs the human cost of China's shift from state-controlled communism to state-sanctioned capitalism, a price paid in the blood and sweat of people who have, paradoxically, inspired him to create works of sublime, soulful art -- works of art like ''Still Life.'' (Dargis)
 'SUMMER PALACE' (No rating, 2:20, in Mandarin and German) Lou Ye's sweeping, spirited portrait of Chinese college students before and after Tiananmen Square has the scope of an epic and the rhythms of a pop song. Lei Hao gives a fierce, uninhibited performance as the film's passionate, impulsive heroine, a girl from the provinces who arrives at Beijing University in 1988. (Scott)
 'TAXI TO THE DARK SIDE' (R, 1:46) This documentary by Alex Gibney (''Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room'') traces a path from Bagram prison in Afghanistan to Abu Graib and Guantanamo, and serves up a powerful indictment of some of the American military's tactics in the war on terror. (Scott)
 'TEETH' (R, 1:27) Clever and crude, this teenage horror movie spoof follows the misadventures of a mutant teen angel unknowingly afflicted with the mythical condition known as vagina dentata (a toothed vagina). (Holden)
 'THERE WILL BE BLOOD' (R, 2:38) Paul Thomas Anderson's epic American nightmare tells a story of greed and envy of biblical proportions set against the backdrop of the Southern California oil boom of the late-19th- and early-20th centuries. There is no God but money in this oil-rich desert, and his messenger is Daniel Plainview, a petroleum speculator played by a monstrous and shattering Daniel Day-Lewis. (Dargis)
 '27 DRESSES' (PG-13, 1:47) Katherine Heigl, trading the unexpected maternity of ''Knocked Up'' for the expectation of matrimony, stars in this bland and forgettable romantic comedy. Ms. Heigl, Malin Akerman (as her sister and romantic rival) and Judy Greer (as the inevitably flaky/slutty friend) are all adept comic performers, but the filmmakers give them nothing fresh or interesting to work with. (Scott)
 'UNTRACEABLE' (R, 1:40) Morally duplicitous torture porn: how else to describe this bleak, rain-washed horror thriller, whose predatory villain streams live video of his murders on his own popular Web site, killwithme.com. (Holden) 
 'U2 3D' (G, 1:25) The musical documentary ''U2 3D,'' which stitches together performances by this Irish rock band during a recent tour of South America, brazenly ignores the usual stipulations about making a 3-D film, to thrilling effect. The movie's co-directors, Mark Pellington and Catherine Owens, layer the screen with multiple planes of information: long shots and medium shots of the musicians; images of the crowd; close-up details of graphics from the big screen that the band performs in front of that make the designs abstract and merge them with the performers. Thanks to the clarity of the movie's format, digital 3-D, the result is not a confusing mishmash of images but a musical/experimental work that visually simulates the sensation of thinking. (Seitz)
 'THE WITNESSES' (No rating, 1:52, in French) Andre Techine's light-handed ensemble drama looks back to 1984, when the AIDS epidemic forces a group of sexually free-spirited friends -- straight, gay and bisexual -- to examine their relationships. This beautifully acted film takes the long view of people faced with a catastrophe, who have complex responses and eventually move on. (Holden)
 Film Series
 A TRIBUTE TO ST. CLAIR BOURNE (Sunday) The director of more than 40 documentaries about African-American life and culture, St. Clair Bourne died in December and will here be honored in a celebration organized by the filmmaker Warrington Hudlin. A panel of critics and columnists, including George Alexander, Esther Iverem, Clyde Taylor and Armond White, will discuss his work, accompanied by clips. Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $10. 
 (Dave Kehr)
 'EL MEDINA' (Monday) Screening as part of MoMA's tribute to the French producer Pierre Chevalier, this 1999 film by Yousry Nasrallah is a social realist update of the classic film noir story of the young immigrant -- here, an Egyptian (the winning Bassem Samra) in Paris -- who finds the only means of economic advancement available to him is as a prizefighter. Of course the fights are rigged. An impressive work by the gifted Mr. Nasrallah, who apprenticed with Egypt's greatest filmmaker, Youssef Chahine. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)
 AN EVENING WITH SIDNEY LUMET (Monday) The doyen of New York feature filmmakers, described by Janet Maslin in The New York Times as ''the poet laureate of urban police corruption,'' Mr. Lumet will appear in person for a discussion of his remarkably prolific career, which embraces some 44 feature-length films over a period of 50 years. And you can stick around to see ''Network,'' Mr. Lumet's nerve-touching 1976 satire on the television news business (for a separate admission). Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $10.50 each for the movie and the discussion. (Kehr)
 'TWO LAWS' (Wednesday) A rare screening of this 1982 ethnographic feature, which the Australian filmmakers Carolyn Strachan and Alessandro Cavadini made in close collaboration with members of the Borroloola Aboriginal community. The modern history of the community and its relations with the Australian government are evoked in scenes staged with a strict observance of Borroloola traditions, particularly for the relative placement of men and women within the scene. Ms. Strachan will be present to discuss her work with the New York University scholars Faye Ginsburg (anthropology) and Jonathan Kahana (cinema). Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr)
 'HIS GIRL FRIDAY' (Thursday) BAMcinematek plays host to a Valentine's Day special: a screening of this Howard Hawks classic screwball comedy starring Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell, accompanied by dinner in the BAMcafe (where the primary topic of conversation may be BAMspelling). Howard Hawks and black-pepper-rolled seared rare yellow fin with basil-infused celery root puree? How can you go wrong? $63 per person includes movie, dinner, tax and tip; seatings at 6:45 and 8:20 p.m. BAM Cinematek, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; bam.org. (Kehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FILM GENRES (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); BLINDNESS (75%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); HORROR FILMS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (70%); HEZBOLLAH (68%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (66%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (60%); ARMED FORCES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: JESSICA ALBA (59%); TOM HANKS (59%); JULIA ROBERTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) TEXAS, USA (74%) ISRAEL (90%); LEBANON (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



198 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Rate of Growth in Consumer Debt Slowed in December

BYLINE: By ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumers increased their borrowing in December at the slowest pace in eight months, additional evidence that economic activity slowed significantly at the end of last year. For all of 2007, consumer credit rose at the fastest clip in three years. 
 The Federal Reserve reported Thursday that consumer borrowing rose at an annual rate of 2.1 percent in December, a sharp slowdown from an 8.2 percent jump in November. It was the weakest showing since April, when credit increased just 1.6 percent.
 Economists had expected total credit to rise by $8 billion; instead it increased by about half that, $4.5 billion, to $2.52 trillion.
 For all of 2007, consumer credit increased 5.5 percent, up from an increase of 4.5 percent in 2006. The 2007 performance was the biggest spike since a similar 5.5 percent rise in 2004.
 Analysts attributed much of the credit growth in 2007 to households moving to put more purchases on their credit cards as banks tightened lending standards for home equity loans.
 That trend was expected to persist this year with continued increases in revolving credit, the category that includes credit card debt. 
 The category of credit that includes auto loans was expected to lag, however, reflecting carmakers' difficulties in selling new cars.
 Consumer credit, as measured by the Federal Reserve, does not include any debt secured by real estate, like mortgages or home equity loans.
 The December report showed that revolving credit, the category that includes credit cards, rose at an annual rate of 2.7 percent in December, a significant slowdown from a 13.7 percent jump in November.
 Borrowing in the category that includes auto loans posted a 1.8 percent rise in December, down from a 4.9 percent increase in November.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''Consumer Borrowing'' Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



199 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS HANOVER, N.H.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: An Enclave of Dartmouth Opens Up

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
EDUCATION, as the saying goes, may be wasted on the young. But who says the same has to hold true for college towns?
 Probably not the adults who are packing their bags for Hanover, N.H., where Dartmouth College holds sway, and its satellite villages, which are strung like beads along the Connecticut River.
 Drawn by many of the same perks as the students -- first-rate facilities, a commitment to the arts and spirited night life, all folded into a pitch-perfect rural New England landscape of inns, general stores and clock-tower churches -- these second-home buyers are also discovering more beneath the surface of the region's provincial tableaux.
 Indoors, bistros throb with live Latin jazz, stylish women browse in designer T-shirt shops, and markets teem with enough cuts of sablefish, flounder and char to rival any big-city grocery. 
 Two decades ago, a Dartmouth diploma was almost a prerequisite for buying a second home in the region, real estate brokers say. But, in step with Hanover's swiftly redeveloping downtown, recent arrivals don't necessarily bleed Dartmouth green.
 Take Elizabeth Ross, a real estate lawyer from Wellesley, Mass., and who is, of all things, a Harvard graduate. She spends weekends in Norwich, Vt., across the river from Hanover.
 ''Rather than buy a place on top of a mountain somewhere, we wanted a home near culture, where there were things to do,'' said Ms. Ross, who enjoys the paintings at the Hood Museum at Dartmouth, films at the four-screen Nugget Theaters in Hanover and strong coffee at the Dirt Cowboy Cafe. 
 Other days she entertains guests in her home, which she shares with her husband, Bill O'Reilly, and their two sons. Converted from a 1950s ranch-style house, the two-story Cape has four bedrooms, three and a half bathrooms and 2,900 square feet on three acres on a hill. The house cost $540,000 in 2003, Ms. Ross said and could sell for $700,000 today.
 Year-rounders, including Dartmouth employees, surround Ms. Ross, but the feel is more seasonal in Post Mills, Vt., on Lake Fairlee, where flat-topped hills spill down to shores rimmed with sand and, this time of year, ice.
 Though her four kayaks are mothballed, Barbara Keeling, a second-grade teacher who lives in Washington, doesn't duck the Hanover region in winter. She savors the solitude that arrives after all the homes that aren't insulated empty out for the season.
 Her two-story wood-frame, built in 1994, has three bedrooms, two bathrooms and 1,800 square feet. After a decade of renting lakeside houses with friends, Ms. Keeling bought the house in 2006 ''as kind of a lark'' for $370,000.
 Six miles distant, bustling Hanover is ''just far enough away that it doesn't infringe on your life all the time,'' said Ms. Keeling, who nevertheless enjoys the sprawling Dartmouth Bookstore and likes that people can enroll in college-sponsored adult-education classes. 
 ''Living near a college is a tremendous advantage,'' she said.
 The Scene
 Predictably, perhaps, many alumni feel the same -- they like to be close to their alma mater. William Rich, another Wellesley resident, who graduated from Dartmouth in 1968, spends weekends at his 1850 farmhouse in Canaan, N.H., which is 18 miles east.
 With four bedrooms and 2,000 square feet, the house also has its original barn. Mr. Rich, who runs a wealth-management firm, bought the property in 1995; he declined to give the price.
 Dartmouth activities provide a ready source of entertainment for Mr. Rich. More rigorously, he often scales 3,155-foot Mount Cardigan in snowshoes, which he will try this season by moonlight. ''We like being out here in the country,'' he said. ''There are a lot of evenings you can look up in the sky and see every star that exists.''
 Restaurant options have grown since he was an undergraduate. One favorite is the Canoe Club, whose menu includes two dozen draft brews and a roasted free-range chicken entree with mashed potatoes ($23). Sixty people were crowded in the dimly lighted dining room on a recent Saturday night, while a piano player covered Elton John.
 There's plenty to do in the towns around Hanover. King Arthur Flour, in Norwich, offers baking classes. Nearby is Dan and Whit's, a classic general store; a sign taped to the window states: ''If we don't have it, you don't need it.'' Scuffed floors lead to aisles stuffed with wool hunting caps, penknives, bananas and microbrews made in Vermont and New Hampshire.
 In White River Junction, Vt., a rehabbing former railroad hub, the Northern Stage theater is now presenting ''The Price'' by Arthur Miller. For sustenance, the theater crowd often heads to the Tip Top Cafe -- in the old Tip Top Bread bakery -- a soup, salad and sandwich kind of place where you can also get entrees like orange-infused honey-glazed salmon ($14.95). 
 Lebanon, a former mill town, is rebounding, too. Its brick-faced opera house has recently been host to musical acts like Los Lobos and BeauSoleil. 
 Pros
 The region is a center for outdoor activities, and Hanover itself is a cultural hive. And Dartmouth earns good-neighbor points for letting the public use its library and gym. Skiers can also hit 30 slopes across a 968-foot vertical drop at the Dartmouth Skiway in Lyme Center, N.H., where adult day passes on weekends cost $40, and lift lines are short.
 Cons
 Parking in downtown Hanover is at best a nuisance and at worst grueling. But Advance Transit, a local bus service, runs as far as Canaan, with free fares on all lines. Darkness falls early at the height of winter, and when mud season arrives -- March to May -- high boots are a must.
 The Real Estate Market
 Second-home buyers generally skip Hanover proper, where the median price for a house is $500,000, but properties can sell for up to $2 million. They prefer quieter outlying areas, where houses have more land. Houses comparable to those in Hanover cost about 10 percent less in Lyme or Thetford, Vt., and up to 20 percent less in Canaan.
 The median price for second homes in the region is $350,000, which can buy a two-story 20-year-old Colonial-style house with 2,500 square feet on 10 acres, according to the Northern New England Real Estate Network.
 Bargain hunters, though, can pick up homes for $200,000, typically A-frames on dirt roads in Strafford, Vt., that have 1,000 square feet. 
 One of the more prestigious addresses is Orford, N.H., 17 miles up the Connecticut River, where at high elevations, vast farms offer panoramas of cloud-grazed peaks. They can sell for several million dollars, but rarely come on the market, Jane Darrach, a sales associate with Martha Diebold Real Estate, said.
 LAY OF THE LAND
 POPULATION 11,151, according to a 2006 estimate by the Census Bureau, including some 5,700 college students. Real estate agents say the region draws at least 4,000 seasonal residents.
 SIZE About 50 square miles. 
 WHO'S BUYINGConnecticut investment bankers, suburban Boston lawyers, Westchester doctors and other Northeast professionals.
 GETTING THERE From New York, take Interstate 95 north to Exit 48 in New Haven, then head north on I-91 for 190 miles to Exit 13. Make a right onto Route 10A/West Wheelock Street and follow it a half-mile into town.
 WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING The Hanover Inn (2 South Main Street; 800-443-7024; www.hanoverinn.com) has 93 artfully decorated rooms that start at $260 in winter. The more basic Hotel Coolidge in White River Junction, Vt. (39 South Main Street; 800-622-1124; www.hotelcoolidge.com) has winter weekend rates starting at $89 a night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COLLEGE TOWN: Second-home owners in Hanover are drawn by some of the perks Dartmouth students enjoy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LORI DUFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) Map Map details area of Hanover, New Hampshire. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); LAKES (76%); PAINTING (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); RELIGION (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



200 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Languid Hawaii Looks to Be an Energy Leader

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
To the long list of natural blessings to resent Hawaii for, you can add a dizzying abundance of clean, renewable energy sources. The state announced in late January that it had formed a partnership with the federal Energy Department to plunge into green technologies and to outpace the nation in moving beyond fossil fuels. Two highly plausible reactions to the news were: 1) of course, and 2) what took it so long?
 It's almost embarrassing how green things could be in blue Hawaii. There's all that sunshine and those trade winds, plus a volcano that has been lazily erupting for the last 25 years. Many barrels of biofuel await tapping in vast acres of sugar cane. Funkier ideas like harnessing tides and waves and growing oily algae play to Hawaii's strengths. Energy-wise, Hawaii is like that ''Star Trek'' planet that Captain Kirk was trapped on, with all the raw minerals he needed to save himself from an angry alien lizard if he could only ... figure out ... how to put them ... together. 
 The other thing Hawaii has a lot of is talk. The state gets more than 90 percent of its energy from imported fossil fuels and has some of the country's worst highway congestion. It is the worst oil addict in the nation, but has wasted decades complaining about it and doing next to nothing. 
 It's easy to be skeptical about the new plan, which pledges to get 70 percent of Hawaii's energy from renewable sources by 2030, but offers vague means to achieve that goal, and no money. 
 While there has been no shortage of task forces and clean-energy start-ups over the years, not much has taken root. Hawaii does have lots of hot-water solar panels, but far, far fewer than it should. There used to be lots of talk of windmills, but the few that did go up were dismantled long ago or now loom as rusting hulks. There is some geothermal power on the Big Island, but it has not been particularly well received, especially among those who believe that drilling into the volcano violates the Goddess Pele. More exotic forms of energy, like generator buoys tugged by waves, still seem distant. Off the Big Island, an attempt at ocean thermal energy conversion -- using warm surface water and cold deep-sea water to run turbines -- fizzled as a power plant, though its byproduct, mineral-rich bottled water, is being sold in Japan as a health drink. 
 Enacting big change can be torturous in the islands. That's clear from the years of debate over a light-rail line that is supposed to finally free Honolulu from its rush-hour agonies. Some energy-smart practices that mainland cities take for granted, like curbside recycling, are largely unknown in the islands. The director of the Sierra Club in Hawaii, Jeffrey Mikulina, has a name for smart ideas -- like a proposed law to require solar water heaters in new homes -- that wither in Hawaii's risk-averse climate: ''inertiatives.''
 Still, Ted Liu, director of the state's Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, says there are lots of reason to believe that the energy future has arrived. The age of the $100 oil barrel is making wind and solar technologies more competitive. With a little push from government, Mr. Liu said, the state could easily leap over political shortsightedness into a greener age.
 If anything jolts Hawaii into action, it might simply be a late-stirring sense of doom. 
 As countries were meeting in Honolulu last month to discuss global warming, environmental demonstrators were going around the city marking a line in blue chalk on the ground. It represented the inundation zone from a 1-meter rise in sea level. Frighteningly, Waikiki and much of downtown Honolulu were on the wrong side of the line.
 But before anyone gets too gloomy, we should remember that the islands are blessed, and have a long history of green innovation. Hawaiians have been propelled farther and for longer by wave and wind than any other people on the planet. They were sailing the trackless Pacific in the first century, after all. And while coastal people everywhere knew about waves and wooden boards, only the Hawaiians came up with surfing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); BIOMASS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); BIOFUELS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); SUGAR FARMING (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); BOTTLED WATER (72%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (69%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (68%); OCEANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

 
