

1001 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Promising African Development Fund Collapses

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER and RON NIXON

 BODY:
The initiative began two decades ago, with the best of intentions, after apartheid fell and southern Africa's future brightened.
Today that program, the Southern Africa Enterprise Development Fund, is in its death throes, apparently victimized by mismanagement, insider dealings and a lack of oversight by federal officials. Current and former fund officials are fighting over money, and the eventual cost to American taxpayers of the fund's missteps could run into the tens of millions of dollars, public filings indicate.
On one level, the plight of this obscure fund is a common tale involving the hazards of foreign aid. But on another level, experts say, it points to wider problems bedeviling the federal agency that financed the fund, the United States Agency for International Development, or U.S.A.I.D. In fiscal 2013, the agency had a budget of $1.6 billion and helped administer more than $40 billion in foreign assistance.
''There is a primacy on getting money out of door and there is less urgency on how it is spent or how well it is spent,'' said Jake Johnston, a research associate at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a policy institute in Washington. 
The Southern Africa fund was long led by the American civil rights leader Andrew Young. Its mission was to help start or expand businesses in Southern Africa in sectors including finance, manufacturing, communications and drilling by providing loans or other types of financing. Many of its current problems began in 2009 when agency officials approved a plan under which the organization was to transition into a private equity fund.
Since then, millions of dollars in management fees, legal expenses and other costs have been spent pursuing the failed plan. The fund's value has plummeted by more than 60 percent since 2009, to $18 million from $48 million, the group's tax filings show.
A spokesman for the aid agency, Raphael Cook, declined to make officials of the agency available for an interview about the Southern Africa fund. ''We require all our grantees to use sound business judgment and uphold their fiduciary responsibilities,'' Mr. Cook said in a statement.
The current chairman of the fund, Carlton A. Masters, and a director of the group, Peter V. Emerson, did not respond to interview requests. However, in a statement issued through a lawyer, John Q. Kelly, the fund said that the organization had succeeded in its mission. Agency officials called its track record ''mixed.''
Three former top fund executives are claiming in an arbitration proceeding that the fund owes $1.4 million in fees to a management firm they had founded to pursue the privatization effort. The firm, Inflection Capital Partners, received some $4 million from the fund under a deal that a former fund director described as too lucrative. The fund is claiming in the arbitration proceeding that the former insiders violated the fund's agreement with the aid agency by overpaying themselves more than $840,000.
Lars Liebeler, a lawyer in Washington who represents the former fund executives, described the fund's claim as groundless. He declined to make them available for interviews.
The current fight is far from the first time that the fund has been involved in controversy or internal disarray. Over the years, government auditors have criticized its operations, and the group has chosen to deal with management problems in unusual ways.
Around 2008, for example, fund directors learned that an official of the group had solicited $100,000 in personal loans from the developer of the Mount Meru Hotel, a resort in Tanzania underwritten by the fund. The official then allowed the developer, a local businessman, to withdraw unauthorized funds from the hotel's account.
But even after an internal investigation determined the officials's actions had violated federal regulations and fund policies, he was not fired. Instead, Mr. Young decided to overlook the man's actions and left him in charge of another fund-financed project in Tanzania.
''I am a pastor and I believe in giving people another chance,'' said Mr. Young, the former congressman, United Nations ambassador and mayor of Atlanta, in an interview in 2009.
For years, Mr. Young and Mr. Masters, while directors of the fund, were also partners in a lobbying firm based in Washington called GoodWorks International that represented some African countries including Tanzania, a nation in which the fund did business.
Mr. Young, who did not respond to interview requests, retired last year from both the fund and the lobbying firm.
Usually, enterprise funds supported by the aid agency, like the one in Southern Africa, eventually unwind and go out of business. But several years ago, fund officials began a well-financed campaign aimed at persuading the agency to let them follow a path taken by few other agency funds. They proposed that the organization keep its taxpayer-purchased assets and use them to seed a new private equity fund managed by former fund executives.
In support of that campaign, the fund spent over $300,000 in lobbying fees, filings show. And in late 2009, officials at the agency agreed to a plan under which the fund would retain 75 percent of its current assets -- a sum then equal to about $37.5 million -- for use in the proposed private fund. But the agency also imposed a condition. The fund would need to raise an added $37.5 million from private investors.
Soon after, three fund executives -- its chief executive, Malcolmn D. Pryor; its chief investment officer, Rafique Symonette; and its top lawyer, Layn M. Saint-Louis -- left their posts and formed Inflection Capital. Mr. Symonette is the stepson of the fund's chairman, Mr. Masters, from a previous marriage.
Typically, private equity fund managers are compensated in two different ways: they receive an annual management fee of 2 percent based on a fund's value and also a 20 percent cut of any profits generated by a fund during a year. But public filings show that fund directors, who then included Mr. Young and Mr. Masters, agreed around early 2010 to pay Inflection Capital a 2.5 percent annual management fee based on a nonexistent asset base -- $100 million, the size of the fund's original grant from the federal aid agency in 1994.
The $100 million figure was about twice as high as the fund's stated assets in 2009 of some $48 million, according to tax filings. In a statement, the fund said that officials from the aid agency had agreed to the fee arrangement because it mirrored a deal used when another agency fund went private.
A former director of the fund, Harold E. Doley Jr., an investment banker, said that its terms appeared to favor the three former fund insiders.
''They would have never put such a proposal before me,'' said Mr. Doley, who resigned from the fund in 2008 before the deal because of other concerns about the organization's management. ''I would have rejected it.''
The relationship between the fund and Inflection Capital ended in mid-2011 when the aid agency ordered the fund to liquidate because of its inability to raise the required $37.5 million. Not long after, Inflection Capital filed its arbitration claim, charging breach of contract. The fund said it was hard to raise money during the financial crisis.
By last year, the fund's finances had reached a state of emergency, filings in a Delaware federal court indicate. Starting in 2012, Mr. Masters began making a series of interest-free personal loans to the fund that now total more than $1 million to cover the operating costs of the Mount Meru Hotel, filings show.
To secure his future rights as a creditor, the fund has filed court judgments in his favor, according to filings.
Just how much would be left in the fund to be returned to taxpayers is anyone's guess. In a statement, the fund said it was seeking a buyer for its assets, like the Mount Meru Hotel, which it has listed with a broker for $40 million. But based on the fund's stated value of $18 million, much of that asset is apparently encumbered by debt.
In a statement, Mr. Masters said he had made the loans to the hotel to keep it open during a cash squeeze. ''The last thing I wanted was for U.S. taxpayers to be hurt,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Southern Africa Development Fund, long led by the civil rights leader Andrew Young, above, was founded to aid businesses in several sectors. It is selling its assets, including the Mount Meru Hotel in Tanzania, evidently deeply in debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); TAX LAW (71%); PRIVATIZATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); AFRICA ACTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (93%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1002 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Deadly Power Vacuum

BYLINE: By EDGARDO BUSCAGLIA

 BODY:
It is fashionable in the United States these days to assert that Mexico has arrived on the world stage economically and politically. Certainly, Mexico's political, business and union elites have acquired great wealth -- explained and unexplained -- since the signing of the North American Free Trade Association with the United States and Canada in the 1990s.
Yet the vast majority of Mexicans face a daily struggle to survive under a government that is often either absent or corrupt, high levels of common and organized crime, a chronic lack of formal employment opportunities, and the highest levels of insecurity since the Mexican Revolution. 
Though it is now caught in a painful political transition, Mexico has the potential to become a world-class economic and political powerhouse. But it's not there yet. Several necessary ingredients are missing.
All countries, of course, are afflicted to some degree with internal organized crime. Russia and China generate criminal groups even more powerful than those in Mexico; West European nations face the lawless cross-border activities of many well-financed criminal groups. But none of these countries experience such extreme forms of organized violence as do Mexico and some of its Central American neighbors, all of which face unprecedented rates of homicide, human trafficking, kidnapping and extortion.
Illegal drugs and the access to weapons do not in themselves cause such extremes. Studies show that organized crime syndicates usually try to avoid confrontation with strong central governments, preferring to operate in local and regional markets that augment the lucrative trade in illicit narcotics.
Mexico's extreme violence is caused rather by the power vacuums and failures created by the country's chronically corrupt governments. The corruption creates huge incentives for criminal groups to consolidate their markets through savage competition for voids in ''authority.''
Under the previous conservative federal administration, states like Michoacan appeared to have been infiltrated by sophisticated criminal enterprises, such as La Familia Michoacana. In 2010, the half-brother of the Michoacan governor was forced out of his seat in Congress after he was accused of being a top-ranking member of La Familia, and he remains on the run. In 2009, three dozen mayors in the state were arrested and accused of working for organized crime, though later the charges were dropped.
Prosecution of political figures in Michoacan was made difficult because prosecutors were under the complete political control of the party running the federal government. Moreover, the rights of the accused, all of whom belonged to opposition parties, were often violated, making any indictments legally unsustainable.
More recently, the current federal administration arrested the leader of the national teachers' union on charges of embezzling 2 billion pesos in union funds. Before her indictment, she had voiced objections to the education reforms of President Enrique Peña Nieto, which only strengthened the perception that criminal indictments are used for political purposes.
In the 12 years that the Institutional Revolutionary Party (P.R.I.) was out of power, until it retook the presidency in 2012, many but not all of the authoritarian institutions that developed during more than 70 years of P.R.I. rule were dismantled. Yet it has been far more difficult to fill the resulting power vacuums with legitimate and stable democratic institutions.
Every country should achieve its political transition in its own way. But the latest political agreement among the elites, called ''Pacto por México'' -- in which party leaders from the left and the right aim at social, economic and political reforms -- is opaque and fails to meet the test of democracy. The pact bypassed deliberation in Congress; was done without consulting civil society; and fails to specify measures for improving security.
For all practical purposes, Mexico's judicial system has collapsed. State governors, some of them under the voluntary or involuntary control of criminal groups, have full power over the appointment of judges and prosecutors and the launching of police investigations, thus ensuring impunity for their political and business supporters.
Mexico's unsuccessful attempts to enforce statutes on money laundering and asset forfeitures also demonstrate the weaknesses of the state. Political foot-dragging impedes international efforts to work with Mexican authorities on investigations into money laundering schemes that might link organized crime to Mexican and international political and business figures.
Moreover, the lack of government programs, in coordination with civil society networks, to help prevent criminal association is another area where state power falls far short. Not having such a social system says a lot about why Mexican and Central American youth are drawn in soaring numbers into urban gangs that morph into transnational criminal groups, such as MS-13, which originated in the United States and spread across Mexico and Central America.
The Mexican private sector today is submerged in the largest informal economy of all O.E.C.D. countries. Its potential entrepreneurs, visible for example among the hundreds of thousands of ''changarros'' (street vendors), are all seeking the chance to access legal credit, to invest and to secure formal jobs. Once a high-growth Mexican private-sector revolution takes off, the nation's youth will see no need to supply their labor to organized crime or to migrate to the United States.
Transnational criminal organizations are present in all countries. Drastic U.S.-European reductions in drug consumption and arms sales or drives to decriminalize drug markets will not help Mexico to enhance its human security unless the country first completes its transition to democracy through the elimination of state power vacuums and the establishment of the rule of law.
Edgardo Buscaglia is senior scholar in Law and Economics at Columbia University, and president of the Instituto de Acción Ciudadana in Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EMBEZZLEMENT (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); ARRESTS (75%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); EXTORTION (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (51%); EDUCATION REFORM (50%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1003 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Sexist Mores of Super-Rich Hurt Us All

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- The past week has underscored one more way in which the lives of the super-rich are diverging from the lives of everyone else: The middle-class is becoming a matriarchy, while the plutocracy remains firmly patriarchal.
The sexist mores of the super-rich were exposed by one of that tribe's most prominent philanthropists, the hedge fund billionaire Paul Tudor Jones. At an April symposium at the University of Virginia, Mr. Jones said that women didn't trade as successfully as men because becoming a mother is a ''killer'' to professional focus. ''You will never see as many great women investors or traders as men -- period, end of story,'' he said. 
''As soon as that baby's lips touched that girl's bosom, forget it,'' Mr. Jones said, describing the grim career impact of motherhood on two women who had worked with him in the late 1970s.
''Every single investment idea,'' he said, ''every desire to understand what is going to make this go up or go down is going to be overwhelmed by the most beautiful experience which a man will never share about a mode of connection between that mother and that baby.''
When they were revealed by The Washington Post last Thursday, Mr. Jones's remarks swiftly became notorious, partly because of the vivid language he used to make his case. And Mr. Jones duly apologized.
But his comments are the hedge fund version of the journalist Michael Kinsley's definition of a gaffe -- which Mr. Kinsley said occurred ''when a politician tells the truth -- some obvious truth he isn't supposed to say.''
In Mr. Jones's case, the forbidden truth is not some mysterious mental property of oxytocin, the hormone produced by nursing mothers. It is instead the striking fact that at the summits of high finance, where many of the greatest fortunes in this new Gilded Age are being amassed, there are no women, and it is commonplace to believe, as Mr. Jones does, that there will never be any.
Contrast that positively Victorian setup with the latest news from Middle America: This week, the Pew Research Center reported that 4 in 10 families with children under the age of 18 are now headed by women who are the sole or primary breadwinners. Motherhood may be a ''killer'' when it comes to becoming a Master of the Universe, but among middle-class mothers, even after that touch of baby's lips to bosom, a big and growing number find themselves able -- and often required -- to bring home the family bacon.
It is remarkable how profound the shift has been: In 1960 just 11 percent of all households with children under 18 included mothers who were either the sole or primary source of income for the family.
One of the changes, of course, is the feminist revolution, and all of us, particularly bread-winning mothers like me, should celebrate the liberation of half of the human race and our increasing social and political permission to participate fully in the economy.
But, particularly when you bear in mind how very different the world looks at the high altitudes occupied by Mr. Jones and his peers, it is also worth noting that the feminist crusader and author Betty Friedan is not the only reason so many women are contributing so much more to their household budgets. Another, less uplifting, driver is the hollowing out of the middle class.
As middle-class wages have stagnated, mothers have gone to work in increasing numbers to maintain their families' standard of living. The Pew survey found that two-career households exacted a personal toll -- 74 percent of adults said the increasing number of mothers working outside the home had made it harder to raise children, and half said it had put a strain on marriages. But a strong majority -- two-thirds -- said that working mothers had made it easier for their families to live comfortably.
The 2008 recession intensified these trends. In 2007, just 20 percent of mothers said their ideal was to work full time. By 2012, that figure had swollen by more than half, to 32 percent. Moreover, in 2007, 29 percent of mothers said they would prefer not to work at all. By 2012, just 20 percent said that was their ideal.
These deep changes in how the middle class lives are one reason the backlash against Mr. Jones's remarks was so fast and furious: The world he described is as inconceivable to most of us as Soviet Communism is to my school-age children. It is tempting to delight in that difference -- plutocratic chauvinism growing red-faced when exposed to the gender egalitarianism of the 99 percent.
But the gender divide between the plutocrats and everyone else is more a cause for worry than for celebration. As income inequality increases, the social and political sway of those at the very, very top grows, too. They are nearly all men, and men whose lived experience tells them that women, for whatever reason, just don't have what it takes.
Chrystia Freeland is editor of Thomson Reuters Digital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MEN (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); BREASTFEEDING (75%); JOURNALISM (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); WRITERS (69%); CHILDREN (68%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (62%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1004 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2735 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz. A searchable guide to these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Ben Allison Band (Tuesday) A focused, productive composer, the bassist Ben Allison does something different on his most recent album, ''Action-Refraction'' (Palmetto): he covers songs by others, including P J Harvey and Neil Young. The exercise works, not least because of Mr. Allison's rapport with the guitarist Steve Cardenas and the banjoist Brandon Seabrook, who rejoin him here in a band that also has Allison Miller on drums. At 8:15 and 9:30 p.m., ShapeShifter Lab, 18 Whitwell Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, shapeshifterlab.com; $12. (Nate Chinen)
&#x2605; Kenny Barron Quintet (Tuesday through June 9) Kenny Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and sure-footed piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting. For this engagement his band mates are the trumpeter Brandon Lee, the saxophonist Vincent Herring, the bassist Kiyoshi Kitagawa and the drummer Lee Pearson. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) 
Beka and Logic Project (Monday) The first name in this collaborative entity belongs to Beka Gochiashvili, a 17-year-old jazz piano phenom originally from Tbilisi, Georgia; the second belongs to DJ Logic from the Bronx. They'll be joined by what looks a bit like an all-star fusion confab, with Jaleel Shaw on alto saxophone, James Hurt on electric piano, Lamont McCain on electric bass and Justin Brown on drums. At 7 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $25 cover, with $10 minimum. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Michael Blake Band Plays the Music of John Lurie (Saturday) For a generation or two of New Yorkers, John Lurie's name will always be synonymous with the Lounge Lizards, the so-called ''fake jazz'' band he led in the 1980s and '90s, until chronic Lyme disease caused him to withdraw from the scene. His fellow saxophonist and composer Michael Blake was a member of the band for a while, and so he has both the insight and the temperament to carry out this tribute, featuring Ryan Blotnick on guitar, Landon Knoblock on piano, Michael Bates on bass and Greg Ritchie on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, corneliastreetcafe.com, (212) 989-9319; $20 cover, which includes a drink. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Terence Blanchard (Friday through Sunday) ''Magnetic'' (Blue Note) is the impressively sleek new album by Mr. Blanchard, a trumpeter of expressive urgency and a composer of expansive vision. The album features his pace-setting postbop band, which consists of the tenor saxophonist Brice Winston, the pianist Fabian Almazan, the bassist Joshua Crumbly and the drummer Kendrick Scott -- astute younger players who rejoin Mr. Blanchard here. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30 and $35. (Chinen)
Jane Ira Bloom: All Ballads (Sunday) Ms. Bloom, a soprano saxophonist with an exploratory ken, has committed to an all-ballads program in this engagement, though that hardly qualifies as a restriction for her. She'll have responsive support from her rhythm section, with Dominic Fallacaro on piano, Ray Drummond on bass and Billy Drummond (no relation) on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $25 cover, which includes a drink. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Stefano Bollani Trio (Thursday and next Friday) The pianist Stefano Bollani favors melodic precision, shifting dynamics and a ceaseless undercurrent of play: just a few reasons for the success he has had in his native Italy. For this engagement, presented by Umbria Jazz and the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he works with the same trio heard on his 2009 album, ''Stone in the Water'' (ECM), featuring a pair of Danes, the bassist Jesper Bodilsen and the drummer Morten Lund. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
&#x2605; 'The Cartographies of Flight' (Friday) Marty Ehrlich, a forward-thinking multireedist, has organized this tribute to Charlie Parker with an emphasis on poetic syntax. Charles Bernstein and Erica Hunt, writers associated with the language poetry movement, will perform with Mr. Ehrlich's band, consisting of musicians adept at shifting the balance between form and content: the trumpeter James Zollar, the guitarist Marc Ribot, the bassist Michael Formanek and the drummer Nasheet Waits. At 8:30 p.m., Tribeca Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, near Greenwich Street, (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $25, $15 for students. (Chinen)
Bill Charlap Trio (Friday through Sunday) The pianist Bill Charlap usually works with the bassist Peter Washington and the drummer Kenny Washington in his spit-and-polish trio, which favors a crisp approach to standard songbook fare. But for the remainder of this engagement, he has one eminent substitute in the bassist Ron Carter. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $35 and $45 cover, $20 and $25 for students at select sets, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Gerald Clayton Quartet (Friday and Saturday) Gerald Clayton, a pianist of smartly soulful exposition, recently released ''Life Forum'' (Concord Jazz), an album ambitious in concept and texture, with a clear emphasis on his designs as a composer-bandleader. Performing this weekend on the Keystone Korner Nights series, he reconnects with Sachal Vasandani, a featured vocalist on the album, and enlists the bassist Harish Raghavan and the drummer Kevin Kanner. At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium Jazz Club, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, theiridium.com; $30 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Patrick Cornelius Quintet (Wednesday) Patrick Cornelius, a saxophonist who specializes in a nimble species of postbop, draws here from ''Infinite Blue,'' an album due out on the Whirlwind label in July. One of his partners here, the trombonist Nick Vayenas, is featured on the album; the others are the keyboardist John Escreet, the bassist Joshua Crumbly and the drummer Rudy Royston. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; $20 cover. (Chinen)
Mike DiRubbo Quintet (Friday and Saturday) The energetic and bop-literate alto saxophonist Mike DiRubbo leads a band stocked with regular collaborators: Steve Davis on trombone, Brian Charette on piano, Dwayne Burno on bass and Joe Farnsworth on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; $25 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
Eliane Elias (Friday and Saturday) A Brazilian pianist with a transparent touch and a fondness for subtle harmonic shading, Ms. Elias is also a singer of breathy composure, as she demonstrates on her new album, ''I Thought About You: A Tribute to Chet Baker'' (Concord Jazz). Her run here -- with a typically strong supporting cast -- coincided with the album's release on Tuesday. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Jonathan Finlayson and Sicilian Defense (Friday) Jonathan Finlayson is an incisive and often surprising trumpeter, as he has demonstrated in groups led by the daring alto saxophonist Steve Coleman. ''Moment and the Message'' (Pi) is his long-awaited debut album, featuring the band he calls Sicilian Defense: the pianist David Virelles, the guitarist Miles Okazaki, the bassist Keith Witty and the drummer Damion Reid. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery at Salt Space, 1160 Broadway, fifth floor, at West 27th Street, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)
Paolo Fresu and Uri Caine (Tuesday and Wednesday) Presented jointly by Umbria Jazz and the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this duet features Mr. Fresu, a self-possessed Italian trumpeter of broad and popular acclaim, and Mr. Caine, a pianist and keyboardist with a reputation for conceptual rigor. They share a basic literacy in classical music as well as jazz standards, and an adventurous spirit tempered by a gift for communication. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
&#x2605; The Robert Glasper Experiment (Monday) The surprise winner for best R&B album at this year's Grammy Awards was ''Black Radio'' (Blue Note), by the Robert Glasper Experiment, a group led by its namesake pianist and featuring the saxophonist Casey Benjamin, the bassist Derrick Hodge and the drummer Chris Dave. The Experiment has recently been in the studio concocting a sequel to ''Black Radio,'' which means this show -- its first proper New York appearance since the Grammys -- should hit the ground running. At 7 p.m., Gramercy Theater, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, livenation.com; $35 and $40, $60 for V.I.P. tickets. (Chinen)
Eddie Henderson Quintet (Friday and Saturday) Miles Davis -- and specifically his work on the 1961 album ''Someday My Prince Will Come'' -- serves as an inspiration for the veteran trumpeter Eddie Henderson in this two-nighter with Wayne Escoffery on tenor saxophone, David Kikoski on piano, Doug Weiss on bass and Carl Allen on drums. At 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $35 cover. (Chinen)
Bob James and David Sanborn (Thursday) A sticky residue of pop success clings to Mr. James, a pianist, and Mr. Sanborn, an alto saxophonist, who in the mid-1980s released an album together, ''Double Vision,'' which has sold well over a million copies. Their new collaboration is ''Quartette Humaine'' (OKeh), a less solicitous album devoted to the naturalism of acoustic chamber jazz, in the Dave Brubeck vein. Appearing here as part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival, they'll re-enlist the album's versatile rhythm team of James Genus on bass and Steve Gadd on drums. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (800) 982-2787, the-townhall-nyc.org; $52 to $72. (Chinen)
Frank Kimbrough and Scott Robinson (Friday) Mr. Kimbrough, a pianist, and Mr. Robinson, a saxophonist, clarinetist and flutist, have worked together in a few different contexts over the years, notably the Maria Schneider Orchestra, for which each is a star soloist as well as an ensemble player. They share an endless fascination with harmonic inquiry, and a knack for the unexpected; they'll also share a stage, alone together, as part of the Sound It Out series. At 8 p.m., Greenwich House Music School, 46 Barrow Street, West Village, greenwichhouse.org, (212) 242-4770; $15, $12 for students. (Chinen)
Konceptions at Korzo (Tuesday) In the first set of this installment of the weekly Konceptions series, at 9 p.m., the saxophonist Jerome Sabbagh leads a quartet with Ben Monder on guitar, Joe Martin on bass and Ted Poor on drums. The later set, at 10:30 p.m., will feature a rugged collective consisting of the saxophonist Tim Berne, the guitarist Ryan Ferreira, the bassist Devin Hoff and the drummer Ches Smith. Korzo, 667 Fifth Avenue, at 20th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, konceptionsmusicseries.wordpress.com; $10 suggested donation, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Jeff Lederer (Wednesday) Jeff Lederer, a saxophonist of rough but articulate style, celebrates the release of two albums on the Little(i) label, one with each set he plays here. At 8:30 p.m. it's ''Reincarnation,'' the fifth release by the vocalist Mary LaRose, which features Mr. Lederer (on clarinet) as well as a string quartet. At 10 p.m. it's ''Swing N' Dix,'' his Dixielandish project with Bob Stewart on tuba, Kirk Knuffke on cornet and Matt Wilson on drums. At Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $20 cover, which includes a drink. (Chinen)
Dave Liebman Group (Friday) An incantatory saxophonist and flutist working in the post-Coltrane idiom, Dave Liebman has recently enlisted some adaptable younger talent in his bands, including this one. It includes a second saxophonist, Matt Vashlishan, along with the pianist Bobby Avey, the bassist Tony Marino and the drummer Alex Ritz. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $25 cover, which includes a drink. (Chinen)
Joe Locke Quintet (Wednesday through June 9) The kinetic and harmonically sophisticated vibraphonist Joe Locke draws from a ballads-centric new album, ''Lay Down My Heart'' (Motéma), with a band featuring Robert Rodriguez on piano, George Mraz on bass, Clarence Penn on drums and Kenny Washington on vocals. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $45 cover, $20 and $25 for students at select sets, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Joe Lovano Nonet (Friday through Sunday) Joe Lovano, a tenor saxophonist with broad experience in large ensembles, has led this bop-flavored nonet -- stocked with peers like the trumpeter Tim Hagans and the saxophonist Steve Slagle -- on and off for more than a decade. He'll draw here from his 2006 album, ''Streams of Expression'' (Blue Note), which smartly featured the orchestrations of Gunther Schuller, a specialist in groups of this size. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
Clarence Penn: 'Dali in Cobble Hill' (Monday) On his third album, ''Dali in Cobble Hill,'' released last fall on Criss Cross, the in-demand drummer Clarence Penn presents a batch of compositions inspired by the idea of what Salvador Dalí might have thought of a certain Brooklyn neighborhood. Mr. Penn revisits that premise with a near approximation of the album's cast, featuring Seamus Blake and Yosvany Terry on saxophones, Adam Rogers on guitar and James Genus on bass. At 8:15 and 9:30 p.m., ShapeShifter Lab, 18 Whitwell Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, shapeshifterlab.com; $10 cover. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Joshua Redman Quartet (Tuesday) Even for a musician as melodically inclined as the saxophonist Joshua Redman, ''Walking Shadows'' (Nonesuch), his latest release, is an unusual achievement. It is his version of a jazz-plus-strings album, featuring his tenor and soprano work alongside an orchestra and a sterling rhythm section. This concert, part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival, offers the rare opportunity to hear that alchemy in person, with the album's cast of Brad Mehldau on piano, Larry Grenadier on bass and Brian Blade on drums. (The Knights, a New York chamber orchestra, will play the string arrangements.) At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (800) 982-2787, the-townhall-nyc.org; $42 and $57. (Chinen)
Pete Rende Band (Tuesday) Pete Rende is a keyboardist with a gift for establishing mood and atmosphere -- a trait that has served him well in his second career as a microbudget record producer. He has top-shelf partners in this ensemble: the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, the vibraphonist and flutist Yusuke Yamamoto, the bassist Ben Street and two sensitive drummers, R.J. Miller and Jeff Ballard. At 9:30 p.m., ShapeShifter Lab, 18 Whitwell Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, shapeshifterlab.com; $10. (Chinen)
Nick Sanders Trio (Thursday) Nick Sanders is a young pianist, originally from New Orleans, with a precise touch and a wealth of information at his command. As on his prepossessing new debut album, ''Nameless Neighbors'' (Sunnyside) -- which was produced by Fred Hersch, his mentor and former instructor at the New England Conservatory in Boston -- he appears here with the bassist Henry Fraser and the drummer Connor Baker. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery at Salt Space, 1160 Broadway, fifth floor, at West 27th Street, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $15, $10 for members in the first set; $10, $5 for members in the second set. (Chinen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); LYME DISEASE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); GEORGIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1005 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Unions Seek To Revise Bangladesh Trade Status

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After several deadly factory disasters in Bangladesh -- including the collapse of an eight-story garment factory last month that left at least 1,127 people dead -- labor advocates are stepping up pressure on the Obama administration, calling for it to convey its disapproval of working conditions in the country by revoking its special trade status.
But federal officials remain conflicted over the American government's responsibility for safer labor conditions overseas, and in meetings in recent weeks they disagreed over what combination of carrots and sticks would work best to achieve this goal. 
Some officials, particularly in the State Department, say that if trade status is revoked, Washington will lose its leverage to pressure Bangladesh to improve building codes and labor rights. Labor advocates and officials from the Labor Department counter, however, that this leverage is lost anyway if the administration is never willing to use it.
''By failing to take serious action before now even in the face of phenomenal, unprecedented death of workers, U.S. trade officials have already sent the wrong message to Bangladesh,'' said Brian Campbell, policy and legal programs director of the International Labor Rights Forum, a workers advocacy group. ''It's time to send a strong signal.''
Bangladesh is among more than 125 countries that receive breaks on United States tariffs under a World Trade Organization program, the Generalized System of Preferences, intended to promote economic growth around the globe. The United States trade representative is to decide the fate of the country's trade status in June.
In meetings this month to discuss the disasters, officials from the State and Labor Departments agreed that Bangladesh had failed to improve labor rights sufficiently but they disagreed over what to do about it.
Some State Department officials argued that taking away Bangladesh's preferential trade status would damage diplomatic relations with a country that has faced repeated Islamist threats and hurt its economy, which has lately averaged trade-fueled growth of about 6 percent a year.
Bangladesh's garment industry does not enjoy American duty-free status, though other sectors in the country do. But State Department officials said that a decision by the Obama administration to scale back benefits might prompt foreign brands to reduce orders from the country. It might also lead the European Union, which does exempt the garment industry from tariffs, to revoke this status.
But Labor Department officials argued that more pressure was urgently needed. In December, American officials gave the Bangladeshi government a list of areas requiring improvement in order for the country to avoid losing its status. But there has been minimal progress, officials said. The list called for an end to government harassment of labor organizers and greater rights for workers in the country's special export processing zones.
During these meetings, American trade officials also pointed out that under the trade agreement they are required to certify that countries receiving trade privileges meet certain eligibility standards, including the protection of internationally recognized worker rights, which are widely ignored in Bangladesh.
Federal labor officials also said the administration should publicly apply pressure on retailers like the Gap and Walmart to sign an international accord providing for a binding inspection program and mandatory improvements in workplace safety, according to officials who participated in the meetings but are not authorized to speak to reporters.
Many major European retailers have signed the international accord but most American retailers have cited liability concerns, opting to do their own audits of factory conditions. Eight Democratic senators wrote on May 16 to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores, Target and Kohl's, arguing that this type of self-monitoring has proved to be ineffective and urging the companies to reconsider signing the accord.
On Thursday, the Bipartisan Policy Center, a group based in Washington, said it was working with retailers including Wal-Mart Stores, Gap and Target to put into effect a program to improve fire and safety regulations in Bangladeshi garment factories.
The State Department declined to answer specific questions about the trade status. But in a written statement, Patrick Ventrell, the acting deputy spokesman, said that his office continued to convey its hope directly to the Bangladeshi government that it would ''take additional steps to improve worker rights, including the right to freely associate and engage in collective bargaining.''
In a letter to members of Congress this month, Dan Mozena, the ambassador to Bangladesh, argued that good relations with Bangladesh were vital to regional security and United States strategic interests and that labor conditions were improving.
Earlier this year, the Bangladeshi government emphasized the same point in meetings with American trade officials.
''Compliance with rights, including labor rights, will necessarily be gradual'' in poor countries, the top civil servant in Bangladesh's Commerce Ministry said at a March hearing held by the trade representative's office.
Bangladesh's garment sector represents roughly $19 billion in annual revenue and employs nearly four million workers, most of them women. It sells more than $4.5 billion worth of goods to the United States each year.
American trade officials say their frustration was growing even before the recent disasters.
''This has been a long process of one step forward, two steps backwards,'' said an official from the United States trade representative's office, who was not authorized to speak on the record. The official added that Bangladesh had its trade status reviewed previously in 1990 and 1999 for many of the same labor violations that remain problems now. The trade status was not revoked because the Bangladeshi government made commitments to improve, the official said.
In 2007, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. petitioned the United States trade representative to take a tougher posture toward the Bangladeshi government by revoking the country's trade benefits.
''If the country improves and enforces its own laws, real change can happen for these workers,'' Cathy Feingold, international director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said Thursday.
One of the biggest concerns among American officials has been the treatment of Bangladeshi labor activists.
Last April, Aminul Islam, a prominent worker advocate, was found dead, his body bearing signs of torture. Reporters in Bangladesh said there was evidence that the government's security forces might have been tied to the death. No one has yet been arrested. According to American diplomats and labor officials, there has been little progress in the investigation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The collapse in April of the Rana Plaza factory building in Savar, Bangladesh, a suburb of Dhaka, left at least 1,127 people dead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BIRAJ/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARMENT WORKERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); EXPORT PROMOTION (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOR RIGHTS FORUM (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%) BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1006 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: The Markets Inch Higher On Tepid Economic Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market rose on Thursday after a pair of lackluster economic reports raised expectations that the Federal Reserve would continue to bolster the economy with its stimulus program.
Unemployment claims rose and an initial estimate of first-quarter economic growth was revised slightly lower. That suggests that the economy may need more time to recover from its troubles and that the Fed will keep up its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.
''The big worry that's been hitting the market lately, that the Fed might step back prematurely, might be fading a little today on the idea that the economy does need a bit more support,'' Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial, said. 
The rise in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was led by banking and insurance stocks, which gained 1.1 percent. Among individual bank stocks, Bank of America rose to its highest in more than two years. JPMorgan also climbed.
Banks and other stocks that stand to benefit the most from an improving economy have surged this week, a change from earlier in the year when investors favored dividend-rich stocks like utilities. Now investors are selling such stocks and buying so-called growth stocks. The S.& P.'s financial index is up 2.1 percent this week; its utilities index is down 2.5 percent.
Even after this week's gain, by one measure bank stocks are still less expensive than the broader market. The price-to-earnings ratio for financial companies is 14.4 for banks and insurers, compared with 16.2 for all companies in the S.& P. 500 index, according to FactSet.
Banks are also attractive to investors because they have the capacity to increase their dividends from the current low levels, having bolstered their cash reserves after the financial crisis, said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at RDM Financial.
''Banks appear to be on the mend,'' Mr. Sheldon said.
Bank of America rose 35 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $13.83. JPMorgan gained 95 cents, or 1.7 percent, $55.62, and Morgan Stanley rose 84 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $25.82.
Stocks also got a lift from deal news.
NV Energy of Nevada surged $4.34, or 23 percent, to $23.62, leading a broad advance in utility companies, after a company owned by Berkshire Hathaway agreed to pay a premium of 23 percent to buy it.
Clearwire, a wireless network operator, rose $1.02 cents, or 29 percent, to $4.50 after the satellite TV operator Dish Network raised its bid for the company to $6.9 billion.
In economic news, the number of Americans seeking unemployment aid rose last week, a sign that layoffs have increased, the Labor Department said Thursday. Claims for unemployment aid rose by 10,000 last week, to 354,000. The government also lowered its estimate for economic growth in the first three months of the year to 2.4 percent from 2.5 percent.
The S.& P. 500 rose in early trading, climbing as much as 13.55 points, or 0.8 percent, by late afternoon. The index then gave up some of its gain in the last hour of trading to end up just 6.05 points, or 0.4 percent, at 1,654.41.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.73 points, or 0.1 percent, at 15,324.53 points. The Nasdaq composite index rose 23.78 points, or 0.7 percent, to 3,491.30.
In government bond trading, the yield on the 10-year note was unchanged at 2.12 percent.
While the prospect of a change in Fed strategy is unsettling investors, they should welcome the end of the Fed's stimulus because it means that the economy is strong enough to stand on its own two feet, said J. J. Kinahan, chief derivatives strategist at TD Ameritrade.
''It's the vote of confidence,'' he said. ''It should mean that the overall economy is healthy.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INSURANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (63%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (60%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (70%); NV ENERGY INC (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%); DISH NETWORK CORP (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); NVE (NYSE) (55%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%); DISH (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1007 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Unified Market, Official Wants to End Roaming Fees in Europe

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN; James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Neelie Kroes, the European commissioner who was the scourge of American tech companies like Oracle, Microsoft and Intel, urged European Union lawmakers Thursday to abolish cellphone roaming charges.
Ms. Kroes, the European commissioner for digital policies, told members of the European Parliament's Internal Market and Consumer Protection Committee, ''I want you to be able to go back to your constituents and say that you were able to end mobile roaming costs.''
The speech was the latest effort by Ms. Kroes, a Dutch economist and former European Union antitrust chief, to fundamentally redefine the rules of the union's telecommunications market. In theory, the market is a single economic zone. But in reality, it is a patchwork of 27 national markets where operators charge people fees whenever they cross a border with their smartphones. 
Because competition has made basic mobile phone service relatively inexpensive in Europe compared with other developed countries, the roaming fees are a profitable part of network operators' businesses. As a result, the European Parliament is expected to face heavy lobbying from the telecommunications industry against the proposal.
The association representing Europe's largest phone operators, the European Telecommunications Network Operators' Association, said that lawmakers should further deregulate the telecommunications market before considering an end to roaming fees.
The group said in a statement Thursday that the industry needed ''a much less intrusive and a simplified regulatory framework, which will facilitate new investments and pave the way towards a digital single market.''
Ms. Kroes earned the nickname ''Steely Neelie'' for her hard-charging approach to regulation during her previous job in Brussels. As the bloc's competition commissioner, she imposed a $1 billion penalty on Microsoft in 2008 as part of a decade-long battle over the way the software giant used its Windows computer operating system to curtail competition. She also went after Oracle and Intel, and gave Google a close examination on its proposal to buy DoubleClick.
Yet Ms. Kroes has a friendly and informal manner, and she prides herself on real-world business experience, having sat on numerous corporate boards before joining the European Commission.
Smaller operators fear that Ms. Kroes's single-market proposal could extend the dominant influence of the big operator groups -- Vodafone, Telefónica, Deutsche Telekom and France Télécom -- from isolated national markets to wide swaths of Europe.
Mobile roaming fees are charged when a person makes or receives calls and text messages, or uses the Internet, while outside that person's home country. Since 2007, the retail and wholesale levels of the fees have been limited by law in Europe. They account for about 5 percent of carriers' revenue, analysts say.
Carriers in the European Union can now charge up to 35 euro cents (46 United States cents) per minute for a roaming call within the bloc, and up to 79 euro cents for every downloaded megabyte of data.
Deutsche Telekom, the big German carrier, issued a statement opposing Ms. Kroes's proposal. ''The telecommunications sector stands to lose millions of euros under such a proposal,'' the company said. ''At the same time it is expected in the European Union that telecom companies are going to invest sizable sums in the construction of modern broadband networks. The political decision makers are the ones who must resolve this apparent contradiction.''
Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Vodafone, the largest mobile operator in Europe, declined to comment on the plan. But he said Vodafone already sold a special roaming package called Vodafone Red for 3 euros a day that gave customers the ability to make and receive unlimited texts and voice calls while roaming in 14 European countries. The package also allows Vodafone customers to download as much data while traveling as they would at home each day under their existing plans, Mr. Gordon said.
Last year, at the urging of Ms. Kroes, European Union lawmakers extended and lowered the price caps on roaming fees through July 2017. And starting in July of next year, under the current rules, consumers are supposed to get the right to buy roaming packages from other operators, a change intended to introduce competition in the roaming market and bring down prices. If Ms. Kroes's new plan were to take effect, it would override the changes set to take place in July 2014.
A European consumer group, the European Consumers' Organization, welcomed plans to abolish roaming fees but warned lawmakers against passing a ban that could be easily circumvented by operators, which could simply raise domestic fees across Europe to compensate for the loss of roaming revenue.
Malcolm Harbour, the chairman of the committee that heard the speech, said in an interview that Ms. Kroes would find support in Parliament. He said her push to abolish roaming fees would be part of a broader package she is expected to announce in October to enhance the operation and efficiency of a single European digital communications market.
''I think the push to abolish roaming stands a good chance of becoming law over the next year if Mrs. Kroes presents a well-calibrated package that frees industry from some of the current regulatory constraints on investment,'' Mr. Harbour said.
Jens Rohde, a Danish lawmaker who is a vice chairman of the Parliament's Industry, Research and Energy Committee, said the proposed ban on roaming fees was intended to pressure operators to support Ms. Kroes's package.
''She is simply trying to raise pressure on operators to come to the bargaining table,'' said Mr. Rohde, who supports her push to end the charges. ''There is a cartellike situation when it comes to roaming charges in Europe, and this must stop.''
In her speech, Ms. Kroes also called for a renewed commitment to ''network neutrality'' -- the concept that telecommunications carriers should give equal treatment to all types of content, whether voice, video or data, that travel over their networks. Ms. Kroes did not detail how she planned to guarantee network neutrality.
Both Mr. Harbour and Mr. Rohde said a roaming ban had more political support than a new attempt to enforce network neutrality, a more complex subject in which the technical realities of managing overloaded telecom networks can conflict with free-speech guarantees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neelie Kroes, the European commissioner for digital policies, is proposing to shake up the union's telecommunciations system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SMARTPHONES (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (85%); FRANCE TELECOM SA (84%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (57%); GOOGLE INC (53%); DOUBLECLICK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); FTE (PAR) (84%); FTE (NYSE) (84%); FTE (BIT) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); DTE (FRA) (57%); DTE (BIT) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: NEELIE KROES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1008 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: This Time, A Growing Economy Stirs Unease

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
The American markets are getting worried again. But this time the fear is refreshingly different.
The worry is that economic growth may be about to accelerate.
After five years of a disappointing economy, such a concern sounds too good to be true, and perhaps it is. But imagine what will happen if it is not. We've been complaining for years about how slow the recovery is. It would be great if it sped up appreciably.
But you might not know that if you listened to some of the commentary these days. Those who see a black cloud behind every silver lining can point to plenty of negatives in a good economy. Bond investors will lose money as the value of long-term bonds declines. That will mean that a lot of people are poorer. Banks own a lot of Treasuries, and some of them could suffer as the value of those bonds decline.
Perhaps rising interest rates will prompt a sell-off in the stock market. Perhaps they will choke off the recovery in housing. 
The federal government will suffer a hit from having to pay higher interest rates as it borrows money. The Federal Reserve, which has bought a lot of long-term government bonds and mortgage securities, will lose money -- perhaps a lot of it -- as it sells those securities at lower prices than it paid. It might lose so much money that it stops funneling profits to the Treasury, further damaging the government's fiscal position.
Added to those specifics is the feeling that we are about to enter uncharted territory. Just as the Fed never before engaged in quantitative easing, it has never before unwound the positions. Who knows if it can handle the challenge?
''The Federal Reserve will need to carefully navigate through the completion of quantitative easing,'' the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said this week in its generally gloomy semiannual global economic forecast. ''A premature exit could jeopardize the fragile recovery, but waiting too long could result in a disorderly exit from the program with sizable financial losses.''
Of course, we've all known that -- someday -- the Fed would have to start reducing its positions. But on Wall Street, someday can seem a very long way off. ''This was supposed to be next year's trade,'' a hedge fund manager told me this week.
What made it seem like this year's trade was the sudden backup in the bond market that began early in May and accelerated late in the month after the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, mused that the Fed might be able to start to backing off the easing program later this year. The yield on 10-year Treasuries, below 1.7 percent early this month, rose above 2.1 percent on Tuesday.
That may not sound like a lot, but to owners of such bonds, it is a problem. If they bought at the latest auction of 10-year Treasuries, on May 8, the value of their securities fell enough in three weeks to offset more than a year of income.
That latest drop came on the heels of some surprisingly good economic news, as well an upbeat forecast. Last week, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said it expected the unemployment rate, now 7.5 percent, to fall to 6.5 percent by late next year. That is earlier than the Fed had expected when it said 6.5 percent was the level at which it might choose to back away from quantitative easing,
Then this week the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller home price index was reported to have leapt 10.9 percent over the year through March. That was the largest gain since 2006, when the housing bubble was in full expansion. And on the same day that was reported, the Conference Board said consumer confidence was at a five-year high.
There are reasons to restrain enthusiasm about both figures, though. Home prices hit their lows for the cycle in March 2012, so this is a bounce off the bottom. And while consumer confidence is up, it is still well below the levels that seemed acceptable before the financial crisis. During the decade before the economy began to crater in 2008, there were only two months -- in 2003 -- when the index was as low as it is now. And not all statistics are surprising on the upside; first-quarter gross domestic product was revised a bit lower in the latest estimate, released Thursday.
The sudden optimism about the American economy -- even if it is tempered by fears about how we will handle prosperity -- came in part because the economy is not behaving as it did in 2011 and 2012. At the time, signs of strength as the years began were followed by spring swoons. So strength early this year was seen as a setup for another such fall. Add to that the increase in payroll taxes at the beginning of the year, and there was a widespread expectation that the economy would weaken.
But so far, anyway, it has not.
As for the Fed's ability to unwind quantitative easing, it may be worth remembering that the current level of interest rates -- short-term government interest rates near zero and long-term rates below 3 percent -- is not unprecedented.
''I have been struck by parallels between the challenges facing the Fed today and those when I first entered the system as a neophyte economist in 1949,'' Paul Volcker, the former Fed chairman, said this week when he accepted an award from the Economic Club of New York. Then as now, rates were low. But the Fed at the time controlled long-term rates as well as short-term ones, and there was a lot of fear about what would happen if markets were allowed to push long-term rates higher.
Government debt exceeded 100 percent of G.D.P. after World War II, he noted, ''so there was concern about an intolerable impact on the budget'' if rates rose. ''Ending Federal Reserve support might lead to panicky reactions, and declines in bond prices would drain bank capital,'' he said. ''Mainline economists, and the Fed itself, worried that a sudden rise in interest rates could put the economy back into recession.''
We survived that increase in rates, and we will survive this one, whenever it comes.
What matters is why interest rates are rising. ''In a world where bonds are getting killed because of inflation or mushrooming budget deficits, they will also kill stocks and home prices,'' said Robert Barbera, the co-director of the Center for Financial Economics at Johns Hopkins University. ''If the proximate cause of a bond market sell-off now is that the trajectory of growth is a lot better, that is good news.''
Of all the fears being bandied about now, as in 1949, worry about the effect on government finances is perhaps the most foolish one. A stronger economy can do wonders for tax receipts, as they are noticing in California. And while banks may lose money on bonds, they should make a lot more from fewer loan defaults in a weak economy. As for rising mortgage rates, the immediate effect might be an even stronger housing market, as some people try to buy before rates rise further.
The rise of the stock market since late last year has produced more than its share of doubters, who complained there was nothing in the economic data to justify the increase. Perhaps, Mr. Barbera said, ''it will turn out that the inexplicable rise of the stock market turns out to indicate the market correctly anticipated'' the improvement in the economy.
I've been fooled before by this economy -- notably in early 2011 -- and perhaps the latest ''green shoots,'' to recall what Mr. Bernanke thought he saw in 2009, will again prove to be temporary. But for now it is nice to hear concerns about a surprisingly strong economy, rather than what we have heard for most of the last five years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Looking at a home for sale during an open house in San Francisco. Home prices surged 10.9 percent in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1009 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Sizing Up a President as a Midterm Election Target

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- His name won't be on any ballot in 2014. Or ever again, for that matter.
But plenty of Republicans are still eager to wage a midterm campaign against President Obama, convinced that the spate of recent troubles dogging his second term will drive voters into their arms next year.
''Now, we're seeing the arrogance. We're seeing the cronyism in practice in this second term,'' Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin recently asserted, sounding a lot like his vice-presidential candidate self from 2012, when Republicans spent a good deal of time attacking the president as a self-satisfied autocrat who used his power to reward friends and punish enemies. 
Not everyone in the party, however, is so sure that they can expand their ranks in Congress or improve their standing among voters by personally attacking the president, whose likability ratings stand near 80 percent even if only half of Americans approve of his job performance. And they are cautioning their fellow party members to avoid building their campaigns around the same kinds of messages that have fallen flat before.
''I don't think I'd personalize it,'' said John Linder, the former congressman from Georgia who ran the National Republican Congressional Committee during the late 1990s while Newt Gingrich and House Republicans were preparing an impeachment case against President Bill Clinton. Mr. Linder said he fought and lost a battle with Mr. Gingrich over their strategy in the 1998 midterm elections, which Mr. Gingrich thought should be focused on assailing Mr. Clinton's character.
''I didn't want to talk about Clinton at all,'' Mr. Linder recalled, saying the same logic should apply today. ''Obama was not in the Justice Department. Obama was not working in the I.R.S.'' His advice? ''Don't overreach,'' he said.
In the fall of 1998, Republicans poured tens of millions of dollars into a television ad campaign with slogans like ''Honesty does matter,'' a thinly veiled reference to Mr. Clinton's duplicity about his relationship with Monica Lewinsky.
They lost big that year, and it marked the first time since 1822 that the party that held the White House gained seats in the House of Representatives during a second term. Usually the president's party loses representation in Congress in midterm elections.
In a postelection political autopsy, Republicans offered some self-reflection that should sound familiar. ''We have done incredible damage,'' said John G. Rowland, the governor of Connecticut at the time, ''because in my opinion we've developed a laundry list of people that we're against.'' Mr. Rowland went on to list the groups that he thought Republicans had alienated: women, immigrants and gays, just to name a few.
Skip ahead to the 2012 elections, when the president's character was again the focus of attacks. Early on, Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee, and his conservative ''super PAC'' allies zeroed in on the White House's involvement in controversies involving Solyndra, a politically connected solar-panel company that fell into bankruptcy after receiving government financing, and Operation Fast and Furious, a botched federal investigation into gun smuggling that let weapons fall into criminals' hands.
Mr. Romney went as far as to stage a campaign event outside Solyndra's shuttered California headquarters. And he accused the president of hiding the truth about what the White House knew of the gun investigation.
Crossroads GPS, the group founded by Karl Rove and other top Republican strategists, and Americans for Prosperity, which is financed by the Koch brothers, both put out television commercials accusing the president of bankrolling Solyndra because Democratic donors owned it.
But by mid-2012, Republicans had reversed course in their messaging after finding in focus groups that personal attacks on Mr. Obama were not swaying undecided voters. Instead of hitting him hard, they tried going after him by channeling the disappointment that voters said they had in the failures of his presidency -- high unemployment, low job growth and a stubbornly slow economy.
Mr. Obama today remains overwhelmingly well liked, even with Congressional inquiries swirling. A recent CNN poll found that 79 percent of Americans found him likable.
''There's still a significant chunk of Americans who may not think he's doing a great job but think he's a decent guy,'' said Larry McCarthy, the veteran Republican advertising producer who helped the super PACs retool their messages last year after they found the hard-edge attacks were not working.
Now, as the White House grapples with questions about what it knew about the improper targeting of Tea Party groups by the Internal Revenue Service and growing anger over the Justice Department's seizure of journalists' phone records, some top Republican strategists say they are still incorporating the lessons of 2012.
''Americans for Prosperity has not been out there personally attacking the president,'' said the group's president, Tim Phillips. Instead of narrowing their focus on the president and the White House's alleged misdeeds, they believe it is more effective to portray the I.R.S. and Justice Department controversies as outgrowths of big Democratic government.
''The bigger government gets,'' Mr. Phillips said, ''the more expansive its reach.''
Many Republicans dismiss the caution against overreaching as a liberal critique that is irrelevant, especially considering that a large part of their task will be motivating a base that is deeply distrustful of Mr. Obama.
But to flip Congressional seats from Democratic to Republican will mean persuading a lot of independent voters, just the kind who are often wary of personal attacks on the president.
''They have to have the ability to understand that the American people want more than just negativity about President Obama,'' said Olympia J. Snowe, the Republican former senator from Maine, who has just written a book on bridging the country's partisan divide. ''If you can't make that important pivot to what Republicans stand for and how they've gotten the message, I think there will be even more damage to the Republican Party.''
Republicans should see the White House's troubles as an opening, but not much more, strategists said. ''What this does is it gives Republicans the opportunity to gain the initiative in terms of defining the policy context and the debate,'' said David Winston, a pollster who works for House Republicans.
''But it's an opportunity,'' he added. ''It's not a conclusion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bill Clinton and Speaker Newt Gingrich in 1998, when Mr. Gingrich prodded the Republican Party to attack Mr. Clinton's character as a strategy for the midterm election campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); JOHN LINDER (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1010 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: M.L.S. Club Owner Has Latinos-Only Policy, Suit Says

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

 BODY:
Chivas USA became the 11th member of Major League Soccer nearly a decade ago, beginning play with the cachet that its parent club was Chivas Guadalajara, an immensely popular Mexican team.
But over the years, Chivas USA has struggled on the field and in gaining support in the Los Angeles market, and on Thursday the team dismissed its head coach, Jose Luis Sanchez Sola, only six months after he took the job, citing the team's poor performance.
The dismissal of the Mexican-born Sanchez Sola is hardly out of the ordinary in the ebb and flow of professional sports, but a lawsuit filed against the club this week in California Superior Court raises issues not usually associated with wins and losses. (The team is in last place in the Western Conference with a 3-7-2 record.) 
In the suit, two men who were coaches for the club charge they were fired from their jobs earlier this year because they are not Latino.
In a telephone interview Thursday, the two, Ted Chronopoulos and Dan Calichman, both of whom are white and neither of whom speaks Spanish, recounted what they said were a series of events over several months that led to their dismissal.
According to Chronopoulos, who was the director of the team's youth academy, the difficulties began with a hastily called staff meeting last November with the team's owner, Jorge Vergara.
Chronopoulos said that when Vergara arrived at the meeting, which was held at a Beverly Hills hotel, he began speaking in Spanish to a group of roughly 60 people. After a few seconds, he laughed and switched to English, but then asked for a show of hands from the employees to indicate whether they spoke Spanish.
Then, Chronopoulos said, Vergara told the group, ''If you don't speak Spanish, you can go work for the Galaxy,'' referring to the other, more popular, M.L.S. team that also calls the Home Depot Center in Carson, Calif., its home stadium. Vergara then added, according to Chronopoulos, ''Unless you speak Chinese, which is not even a language.''
A spokeswoman for Chivas USA, Cristina Maillo Belda, said Thursday that Vergara, who assumed control of the club in August 2012, and other team officials were advised by legal counsel not to comment on the lawsuit or anything that might be related to it, including club policies on hiring and firing personnel.
The club does have several employees in key positions who are not Latino and hired Keith Costigan, who is Irish and is best known for being a commentator on the Fox Soccer channel, to replace Calichman as the coach of the club's under-18 team. In a statement issued earlier in May, the club said that ''we reiterate our most absolute respect for diversity.''
In the phone interview, Chronopoulos described the staff meeting with Vergara as ''surreal'' and ''unbelievable.'' When Vergara made his comment about the Galaxy, Chronopoulos said, it was met with stares of disbelief.
Chronopoulos and Calichman also said that in subsequent meetings with the team's president, Jose David, they were informed that the team was seeking to ''return to its Mexican roots.'' Chivas Guadalajara, which is also owned by Vergara, has been celebrated for using only players who are Mexican or have Mexican-born parents since being founded in 1906.
The lawsuit states that since Vergara took over sole control of Chivas USA, the M.L.S. team has cut ties with a number of non-Latino players. Last year's roster had one player who was Mexican or had Mexican-born parents, the lawsuit says, while this season's opening-day roster had 14 such players.
Kevin Willmore, whose son previously played for a Chivas USA youth team, said in an interview that news of Vergara's comments last year quickly spread among parents at the club. Willmore, who is not involved in the lawsuit against the club, said there was a ''noticeable change'' in focus after Vergara took sole ownership of the club.
On two occasions, Willmore recalled, the manager of his son's under-11 team inquired about examining his son's birth certificate and asked for background information on both Willmore and his family, including his parents.
Willmore was offended by the request -- ''they basically wanted to know if we had any Mexican heritage in my family,'' he said -- and the lawsuit charges that David, the team president, told Chronopoulos to determine the heritage of all the academy players shortly after Vergara made his comments to the staff.
''It's outrageous,'' said Calichman, who played professionally in the United States and Japan. ''I've worked in the academy system since it began and no one has ever asked for information like that. No one.''
Willmore also said that meetings with parents, which had previously been conducted primarily in English, were switched to being run primarily in Spanish. Willmore has since moved his child to a team run by the Galaxy.
A spokesman for M.L.S., Dan Courtemanche, said the league could not comment on a pending legal matter and declined to specify whether the league had done any previous investigations into Chivas USA's practices. The league does have several measures in place to promote diversity, though its requirements are that clubs must interview minority candidates for key jobs, including some youth coaching positions.
In this instance, Chronopoulos and Calichman say that not being a minority is the reason they are currently unemployed. They made official complaints to the club's human resources department in January, were suspended shortly after making those complaints, according to the lawsuit, and received letters of termination in March citing their ''unprofessional conduct.''
''The jobs we had are proven steppingstones to bigger opportunities,'' Chronopoulos said. ''We love this game, and it was taken away from us because we don't speak Spanish and we're not Latino. To us, that just isn't right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chivas USA fired the youth coaches Ted Chronopoulos, right, and Dan Calichman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); LAWYERS (71%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (64%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1011 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; TENNIS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: For Teenagers, Victories At Majors Prove Elusive

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
PARIS -- The last teenager in the men's singles draw at the French Open lasted until 4:04 p.m. Paris time on Thursday, and Lucas Pouille, a young Frenchman, would have been eliminated sooner by Grigor Dimitrov if not for a couple of rain delays.
As the years and the springs (yes, this is spring) roll by, it seems ever harder to believe that Michael Chang and Mats Wilander won this title when they were just 17 or even that Rafael Nadal -- a claycourt phenom if ever there was one -- managed it when he was 19.
''Too good; yeah, Rafa, he's another level I think,'' said the Australian 18-year-old Nick Kyrgios, the youngest player in this year's men's draw. 
Kyrgios, one of only three teens in the men's event, lost, 6-4, 6-2, 6-2, in the second round on Wednesday to the 10th-seeded Marin Cilic.
Asked if he agreed with the prevailing theory that a teenager could not win the biggest titles anymore, he took his time answering.
''I think the biggest difference with like the juniors and teenagers at our age is that they're a lot fitter and stronger than we are,'' Kyrgios said of the veterans. ''And yeah, jeez, tough question. I think belief is probably the main thing as well. I think today I was a bit overwhelmed first game. As soon as I walked on the court, he just seemed so professional. I think I was a bit focused on what he was doing rather than what I had to do out there.''
There have been some close calls: Novak Djokovic won the Australian Open at age 20 in 2008, and Juan Martín del Potro won the United States Open at 20 in 2009.
But Nadal remains the last teenager to win a men's Grand Slam singles title, taking the first of his seven French Open titles in 2005. The last teen who even managed to push deep into the second week at a major was Kyrgios's Australian compatriot Bernard Tomic, who reached the quarterfinals at Wimbledon in 2011 at age 18.
Meanwhile, the statistical evidence against prodigies doing prodigious things in men's tennis keeps piling up.
Greg Sharko of the ATP Tour said that the average age of players in the top 100 in the men's rankings has increased from 24.92 years in 2003 to 27.13 in 2012. Sharko said the average age of players in the men's singles at the French Open has increased from 25.20 years in 2003 to 26.78 years this year.
What is remarkable is how steady the rise has been: The average age of the top 100 has increased every year without fail for the last decade.
At the moment, there is not one teenager in the top 100. The three who made it into the 128-player draw did so through wildcards or qualifying.
Kyrgios, who received a wildcard through Tennis Australia's reciprocal agreement with the French Tennis Federation, is ranked 262 and still plans to play in the junior tournament here.
Jiri Vesely, a 19-year-old Czech who qualified, is ranked 127th. Pouille, a solidly built 19-year-old Loon-Plage, France who received a wild card, is ranked 324.
''I see two reasons for all this,'' said Fabrice Santoro, the retired French player who had plenty of tour success as a teenager. ''The first reason is that the average level of play is higher now than ever and so for a young guy to get ranked 150 or 200 is harder than before.
The other reason, which is the principal reason, is that today the physical level of the top players is so high that you just can't have this level when you are 19. You have to work for this kind of level for years, and in my view you can't come into a Grand Slam at that age and beat David Ferrer the Wednesday in the quarters, Rafa Nadal in the semis on the Friday and Novak Djokovic on the Sunday.
''You're dead if you do that, just dead,'' Santoro said, dragging out the final ''d'' for emphasis. ''Even to win one of those matches is a colossal effort.''
Patrice Dominguez, the former national technical director for the French Tennis Federation, said that in the 2000s when the French analyzed player development their conclusion was that anyone who was not in the top 100 by age 20 would have no chance to make the top 10.
''We did the research; there wasn't anyone, it did not exist,'' Dominguez said. ''Now I really believe that is no longer true. Players are coming to the fore later, at 23 or 24.''
One suspects that the push to increase rewards for rank-and-file players, which has seen all four of the Grand Slam tournaments dramatically increase prize money for early-round losers, will only increase career lengths for veteran players who might not once have seen the economic sense in continuing.
''You can play longer,'' Dominguez said. ''But there is also the injury issue. You are injured for two and a half years out of 10 years in tennis.''
But that extra money also pays for what once was only available to the stars: fitness trainers, physiotherapists, sophisticated medical advice. That world has already been democratized even if no one outside the top 10 can match the means of Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray when it comes to a support structure.
The barriers to youth do not exist to the same degree in the women's game, where there were 15 teenagers in the French Open singles draw, including the 16-year-old Donna Vekic of Croatia and 17-year-old Ash Barty of Australia. But the only teen into the third round as of Thursday afternoon was Monica Puig, a 19-year-old from Puerto Rico.
But the average age of the women has been moving steadily upward as well. According to Kevin Fischer of the WTA, the average age of French Open singles players has rising by about one year per decade since 1993. The average was 22.56 years in 1993; 23.3 years in 2003 and 24.54 in 2013.
That is still more than two years younger than the men.
''All we have to do is say that the teens can't do it, and there will be a new Wilander or Chang or Nadal who will come and win something at 17 or 18,'' Dominguez said with a laugh.
''But overall there's no question it's much more difficult. The process of developing mentally and physically and psychologically is more complicated. But what I don't think is a big problem is the technical side. You can have the technique you need to win a Grand Slam at that age.''
Pouille said he had seen big changes, however, from watching video of Nadal's first French Open victory in 2005.
''There's a world of difference in the level in my opinion,'' he said. ''I have the feeling he's gotten better every year. To win a Slam now in your teens, unless you're a magician, is awfully complicated.''
Pouille said it was not a question of self-belief, however, not a question of hearing that youth cannot be served and letting it affect the results on the court.
''No, no, no,'' he said. ''Because I'm someone who is very impatient, and if I could get it to go faster, believe me, I'm not going to hold back. When I went on the court against Dimitrov today, I wanted to win and I was definitely not telling myself, 'Hey, I'm a bit young. If I lose it's understandable. He has all the experience.' Today I lost because he was better, not because of the age.''
Jim Courier, a French Open champion at age 20 in 1991, believes that the trend is clear but that the possibility for teenaged exceptions remains.
''I have no doubt it will happen again,'' Courier said, ''when a very special player comes along.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nick Kyrgios, 18, was the youngest player in the French Open men's draw this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RANKINGS (60%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (78%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (90%); AUSTRALIA (87%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1012 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 6268 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Charles Ives Take Me Home' (in previews; opens on June 13) Apparently being an insurance executive and a maverick American composer isn't enough. Now Charles Ives is a family peacemaker too, courtesy of this new drama by Jessica Dickey (''The Amish Project''). Here Ives becomes a sort of metaphysical referee between a violinist dad and his basketball-loving daughter. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Eric Grode) 
'The Comedy of Errors' (in previews; opens on June 18) The thought of an intermission-free Shakespeare is a daunting one, but the Public Theater promises just that with its production of this rarely produced comedy. Featuring the familiar faces of Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Hamish Linklater in duplicate (each plays a pair of twins), this lean-and-mean staging by Daniel Sullivan promises to have audiences out of Central Park in well under two hours. Delacorte Theater, Central Park, near 81st Street and Central Park West, (212) 539-8750, shakespeareinthepark.org. (Grode)
'Cornelius' (previews start on Saturday; opens on June 11) J.B. Priestley is one of those relatively obscure playwrights whose works are dusted off and given a fresh new look every few years. Following past resuscitators like David Mamet (who adapted Priestley's ''Dangerous Corner'' for the Atlantic Theater in 1995) and Stephen Daldry (who brought ''An Inspector Calls'' to Broadway in 1994) is 59E59 Theater's Brits Off Broadway festival, which is presenting this 1935 Priestley rarity about love and regrets within a financially teetering import firm. Directed by Sam Yates. 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Grode)
'Enemies, a Love Story' (opens on Thursday) Fresh off presenting John Malkovich as Casanova in ''The Giacomo Variations,'' the fledgling Cherry Orchard Festival shifts its attention to another highbrow tale of romantic entanglements, this one about a Holocaust survivor in New York. Here the well-traveled Gesher Theater of Israel, a frequent adapter of Isaac Bashevis Singer's work, presents the United States premiere of its take on the 1972 Singer novel. Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, cherryorchardfestival.org. (Grode)
'The Explorers Club' (in previews; opens on June 20) Nell Benjamin, who co-wrote the score to ''Legally Blonde: The Musical,'' once again takes on the humorous travails of a bright woman trying to surmount institutionalized sexism. Only this time she's looking back about a century, to 1879 London, as the titular organization grapples with whether to allow a brilliant woman (Jennifer Westfeldt) into its ranks. Not even discovering a lost city, it seems, can guarantee membership. City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Grode)
'Far From Heaven' (in previews; opens on Sunday) It's been a busy spring for Richard Greenberg, who has opened two new Broadway plays, ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' which has already closed, and ''The Assembled Parties.'' Here he has joined the ''Grey Gardens'' creative team for the musicalization of a movie -- the lush 2002 homage to Douglas Sirk's febrile melodramas, in which racial and sexual taboos topple in a seemingly idyllic Connecticut town in 1957. Kelli O'Hara and Steven Pasquale lead the whopping cast of 18 -- the largest Playwrights Horizons has ever fielded. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Grode)
'Good Television' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Playwrights aren't quite as hard on the television industry as they used to be. (After all, half of them are on the writing staffs of TV shows these days.) But reality television still comes in for a good grilling now and then, which is the case with this piece from the longtime actor Rod McLachlan. Here he looks at the machinations that take place on both sides of the camera as part of a reality program about addiction and rehab. Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
'A Kid Like Jake' (previews start on Sunday; opens on June 17) As if the application process for New York private schools wasn't daunting enough, one couple (Peter Grosz and the always welcome Carla Gugino) have to take into account their 4-year-old son's predilection for Cinderella and playing dress up. Speaking of high expectations, this new Daniel Pearle play follows one of Lincoln Center Theater's acclaimed productions, ''Disgraced,'' which played in this space last year and received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama this year -- the first to be given to a Lincoln Center production. Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com, lct3.org. (Grode)
'A Picture of Autumn' (in previews; opens on June 10) Even by Mint Theater standards, N.C. Hunter's 1951 play qualifies as a rarity: the company is presenting the work's American premiere. Hunter's refined, tentative style became synonymous in some corners with everything that the Angry Young Men of mid-20th-century British theater opposed, but perhaps it's time to revisit this piece here. It's about a family trying to hold on to their decrepit ancestral home, and it gave London audiences their first glimpse of a playwright who would soon become an important, but now-forgotten, British dramatist in the 1950s and '60s. Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Grode)
'Reasons to Be Happy' (in previews; opens on June 11) For anyone going through ''The Office'' withdrawal, the headline here will be Jenna Fischer (a k a Pam) in her Off Broadway debut. For everyone else, the news is that Neil LaBute has created a sequel -- the MCC Theater is calling it a companion piece -- to his understated (by LaButian standards) 2008 gem ''Reasons to Be Pretty.'' All four of its characters are back for more high-octane couplings and uncouplings, with Ms. Fischer joined by Josh Hamilton, Leslie Bibb and the LaBute regular Fred Weller. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Grode)
'Roadkill' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on June 16) St. Ann's Warehouse has gained a reputation for immersive and sometimes challenging theater, but this off-site production may test the limits on both counts. In this piece conceived and directed by Cora Bissett, 25 audience members accompany a 13-year-old Nigerian girl and her ''auntie'' to what she the girl has been told will be her new home. The play's title, and the fact that it has won an award from Amnesty International, may give you a sense of what awaits her. Departs from St. Ann's Warehouse, 29 Jay Street, at Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Grode)
'The Silver Cord' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on June 11) In case you missed this play the last time it was on Broadway -- it was one of the 1926-27 season's biggest hits -- the Peccadillo Theater is reviving it Off Broadway. A domestic drama about a pathologically snug relationship between a woman and her two grown sons, this play offers a rare glimpse at the theater work of Sidney Howard, who is best known as a screenwriter (''Gone With the Wind,'' ''Dodsworth'') but he won a Pulitzer Prize for his play ''They Knew What They Wanted.'' Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, theatermania.com. (Grode)
'Somewhere Fun' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Jenny Schwartz made plenty of friends in high theatrical places -- including Edward Albee -- with her linguistically and emotionally ambitious ''God's Ear'' in 2007. In her first play since then, Ms. Schwartz and her ''God's Ear'' director, Anne Kauffman, explore an impromptu reunion between two women who met 35 years earlier. Ms. Schwartz's ear for the quirks and clichés of the English language remains intact, though her cast is a bit starrier this time around: Kathleen Chalfant and Kate Mulgrew are the two women. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Grode)
'Sontag: Reborn' (in previews; opens on Thursday) This Builders Association production returns with Moe Angelos (who also wrote the work) playing a young Susan Sontag. Adapted from the first volume of Sontag's journals (covering the years 1947 to 1963), the play is being directed once again by Marianne Weems. In his 2012 review of the play (which ran at the Public Theater as part of the Under the Radar festival), Charles Isherwood called it ''a touching, exquisitely rendered portrait of the artist (and thinker) in the process of self-creation.'' New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475, nytw.org. (Nicole Herrington)
'Three Kinds of Exile' (in previews; opens on June 11) John Guare's new play has a dependably meaty subject -- the lives of three noted émigrés from Poland and Czechoslovakia, among them the writer Witold Gombrowicz -- and one unexpected co-star: Mr. Guare himself, who is making his Off Broadway acting debut 45 years after winning his first Obie Award for playwriting. Among his co-stars are the actors-turned-authors David Pittu and Martin Moran, so they'll have plenty to talk about. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
'The Tutors' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) Second Stage kicks off its two-play Uptown series of new works with this comedy by Erica Lipez about three young adults who, when they are not developing their social-networking start-up, tutor the offspring of New York's 1 percent. Thomas Kail, who looked at a very different tax bracket of New Yorkers when he directed ''In the Heights,'' is working with some of Off Broadway's more dependable young names, including Matt Dellapina, Keith Nobbs and Aubrey Dollar. McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Grode)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' (previews start on Friday; opens on June 27) David Morse, who has played everything including angels (''St. Elsewhere'') and devils (''How I Learned to Drive''), looks to split the difference in this new play by Steven Levenson (''The Language of Trees''). Here he stars as the title character, a white-collar criminal looking to reconnect with his family after his release from jail. But what if the family is managing just fine without him? Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Grode)
'Venice' (in previews; opens on June 13) Crumbling political structures in the not-too-distant future: The familiar tropes of dystopian fiction are given a fresh workout by Matt Sax and Eric Rosen, the young voices who scored a hit in 2008 with the hip-hop-flavored ''Clay.'' Here their musical palette expands to include more traditional rock, and they have assembled an impressive cast for this Public Lab staging, one that includes Jennifer Damiano and Leslie Odom Jr. as well as Mr. Sax himself. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Grode)
Broadway
'Ann' Holland Taylor wrote and stars in this solo show about Ann Richards, the straight-shooting onetime governor of Texas. Ms. Taylor's engaging performance goes beyond impersonation, though the script is neither a dramatically shapely piece of writing nor a deeply probing character study (1:55). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Jane Lynch as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynne Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly Charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'I'll Eat You Last: A Chat With Sue Mengers' Bette Midler gives the most lusciously entertaining performance of the Broadway season in John Logan's soufflé of a solo show in which she depicts the Hollywood agent Sue Mengers, dishing great piles of dirt as she awaits word from her great friend -- and ex-client -- Barbra Streisand (1:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Lucky Guy' Nora Ephron's elegy and valentine to the rough-and-tumble of big-city newsrooms and scoop-hungry reporters, starring Tom Hanks as the columnist Michael McAlary, is written with a true fan's avidity. Directed with bells and whistles by George C. Wolfe, this is less a fully developed play than a boisterous swapping of fond anecdotes about the end of a life and the end of an era (2:00). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Macbeth' Alan Cumming portrays the Scottish general who would be king, and all the other significant roles, in this one-man race through Shakespeare's tragedy, set in a mental institution. Mr. Cumming's virtuosity and the gothic inventions of the directors, John Tiffany and Andrew Goldberg, impress, but while the actor effectively differentiates the roles, he never fully inhabits any of them (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams, and in a lovely, low-key performance, Condola Rashad (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in Nicholas Martin's production, smoothly transferred from a sellout run Off Broadway (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; '_______ Up Everything' The unprintable title of this winsome rock musical is trying way too hard to shock and awe. But then, so are all the show's characters, who are Brooklyn faux-hemians desperately trying to prove their anti-establishment bona fides. Poking fun at the pasty-white underbelly of Brooklyn's hipster crowd is like shooting free-range ducks in an artisanal barrel, but with catchy music and a talented cast, this show still does so exquisitely well (1:35). Elektra Theater, 669 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, fueonstage.com. (Catherine Rampell)
'The Golden Dragon' This darkly whimsical play about alienation and exploitation by the acclaimed German writer Roland Schimmelpfennig is set in a Pan-Asian restaurant and the apartments around it. An excellent cast, expert design and pacey direction by Ed Sylvanus Iskandar cannot make up for the play's slender substance (1:15). New Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, playco.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'I'm a Stranger Here Myself' The cabaret singer Mark Nadler does an effective job of transforming what last year was a cabaret show into a theatrical production, annotating a journey through music that was created during the Weimar Republic or by composers like Kurt Weill after they escaped Naziism. The show starts out feeling like a pleasant history lesson but ends as a profoundly personal journey (1:45). Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (Claudia La Rocco)
'The Master Builder' John Turturro plays Halvard Solness, the tortured, torturing architect in Andrei Belgrader's studied but arid production of Ibsen's enigmatic drama about the spiritual cost of success and the mysterious forces that shape human destinies (2:10). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Murder Ballad' A small but savvy musical that panders in style to those of us who lap up febrile accounts of fatal attractions. Julia Jordan and Juliana Nash's contemporary tale of a razor-edged love triangle knows exactly what it wants to do, and does it most efficiently, with a four-member cast, directed by Trip Cullman. Staged last fall at Manhattan Theater Club's Studio at Stage II, the show returns with most of its original cast (John Ellison Conlee, Will Swenson and Rebecca Naomi Jones) and an addition: Caissie Levy, who has replaced Karen Olivo. Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
'Nikolai and the Others' An estimable cast of 18, directed by the ensemble master David Cromer, works in harmonious disharmony in Richard Nelson's sprawling, occasionally soporific portrait of transplanted eminent Russians in leafy Connecticut in the late 1940s. The real-life models for the characters here include George Balanchine (a perfect Michael Cerveris) and Igor Stravinsky (John Glover) (2:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Old Hats' Bill Irwin and David Shiner, the peerless neo-vaudevillian jesters behind the long-running hit ''Fool Moon,'' have concocted a winning new compendium of nifty clown routines. The pixie-ish singer-songwriter Nellie McKay makes for a perfect musical foil in this ebullient, thoroughly charming variety show (1:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
'A Public Reading of an Unproduced Screenplay About the Death of Walt Disney' Larry Pine gives a mesmerizing performance as the title character in Lucas Hnath's dark comic inversion of the Disney legend. The staccato, stylized writing can be wearying, but Sarah Benson's smooth direction and a terrific cast hold your attention fast (1:15). Soho Rep, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, sohorep.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (David Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Bootlegging it, Gershwin-style (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Big Knife' (closes on Sunday) Bobby Cannavale stars in the first (and last?) Broadway revival of Clifford Odets's 1949 drama about a movie star in a moral bind: to knuckle under to studio blackmail and sign his life and artistic aspirations away, or leave behind the corrupt system and risk reprisals. Doug Hughes's sluggish production doesn't make a case for the play's enduring merits; Odets handled similar themes with more urgency and cogency in ''Golden Boy,'' seen earlier this season in a superior revival (2:20). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Bull' (closes on Sunday) Mike Bartlett's efficient three-character exercise in human brutality, in which the workplace is transformed into a boxing ring, isn't as rich or complex as his ''Cockfight Play.'' But as directed by Clare Lizzimore, it may provide catharsis for theatergoers seeking to purge tensions by watching a metaphoric version of what happens during their regular office hours (:55). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Brantley)
'Bunty Berman Presents...' (closes on Saturday) Though it sounds as if it should be a hoot, Ayub Khan Din's musical sendup of Indian moviemaking is mostly only a whimper. Look hard and you can discern the reproachful outline of the brasher, more outrageously satisfying show it might have been. Scott Elliott directs a cast led by Mr. Din as a beleaguered Bombay producer. (2:30). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Deadly She-Wolf Assassin at Armageddon!' (closes on Sunday) Expertly staged, this historical martial-arts tale, a riff on the manga series ''Lone Wolf and Cub,'' transcends its genre. Its multitalented creator, Fred Ho (who wrote the script with Ruth Margraff), composed the jazzy score, a surprising fit with the period setting. But its most impressive features are artful set design, gorgeous costumes and fight choreography elevated to heights of dancelike grace (1:30). La MaMa Ellen Stewart Theater, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Webster)
'The Hotel Colors' (closes on Saturday) It's not quite the Hotel California, but there is a sense of lives adrift in Eliza Bent's debut play. A strong cast and Anna Brenner's direction lend heft to an engaging but uneven script (1:30). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wyckoff Avenues, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (La Rocco)
'I Wanna Destroy You' (closes on Saturday) Joshua Conkel's comedy about the vengeful assistant (Anthony Johnston) of a hateful romance novelist (Geneva Carr) is all over the place. The marriage-equality subplot seems tacked on. The novelist's fiancé is ludicrous. But there are pleasures, like Preston Martin's performance as a wedding planner's assistant, a description of gay men in Chelsea and a monologue about dodo birds (1:50). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Old-Fashioned Prostitutes (A True Romance)' (closes on Sunday) The great avant-garde auteur Richard Foreman returns to the stage with a gleeful brain-bender in which a man (Rocco Sisto) recalls his wilting salad days. Memory lane, for Mr. Foreman, turns out to be near Lewis Carroll's Wonderland, and his nostalgic frame of mind melts and warps like a Salvador Dalí clock. Great fun for organic head trippers (1:05). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'One Day in the Life of Henri Shnuffle' (closes on Sunday) This work by the Sprat Theater Company isn't so much a play as an experience. The audience, arrayed along the walls of an apartment inhabited by the fragile old man of the title (James Williams), watches him slowly make his way through his day's simple activities, accompanied only by his cat (nicely conjured by Andy Jean Louis) and his memories, which gradually reveal a little about his past. It's a detailed study in what life is like for the frail elderly, though those who have an acquaintance or family member who fits that description already know this story (1:05). Loomstate/Rogan Showroom, 54 Bond Street, East Village, SpratTheatreCo.com. (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'Shadows' (closes on Saturday) Hoi Polloi returns with its inventive 2011 stage adaptation of John Cassavetes's classic 1959 indie film. Directed by Alec Duffy, the troupe transcends the source material's narrative limitations with verve and audacity (1:20). Jack, 505 ½ Waverly Avenue, at Fulton Street, Brooklyn, jackny.org. (Webster)
'These Halcyon Days' (closes on Sunday) Deirdre Kinahan's two-hander about a man and a woman in a nursing home in Ireland boasts excellent performances by Anita Reeves and Stephen Brennan. At 70 minutes, the pace is brisk, and the play, which is occasionally sentimental, has the feel of a short story, with the emphasis on character: we get to know the hopes and disappointments of Sean and Patricia as their lives approach the end (1:10). Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, irishartscenter.org. (Saltz)
'Unconstitutional' (closes on Monday) Colin Quinn's entertaining spin through the history of our country translates wonky history into very funny jokes (1:05). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, barrowstreettheatre.com. (Jason Zinoman)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); WRITERS (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); BASKETBALL (69%); THEATER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1013 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Turns to 'Boot Camps' to Train New Workers

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Newly minted university graduates who have landed coveted jobs on Wall Street may have impressive résumés and sought-after references. But often, nuts-and-bolts skills like spreadsheet building and database extraction are not part of university curriculums.
When millions of dollars can be won or lost on one calculation, firms are finding it essential that their new hires can tell the difference between a pivot table and a header row.
Enter specialized boot camps where -- for fees that sometimes exceed $1,000 a day -- would-be masters of the universe can perfect Excel modeling techniques and financial analysis. Each year, tens of thousands of students at the nation's top business schools, and scores of new hires at financial firms, including Goldman Sachs and the Blackstone Group, now take courses run by companies like Training the Street and Wall Street Prep.
Graduates say the classes give them a new appreciation for the heart of financial analysis. An eight-hour crash course on leveraged buyouts from Training the Street was so intensive that it ''kind of makes you want to slit your wrists,'' said Michael Rojas, who graduated from Columbia Business School this month. 
But over all, Mr. Rojas said, the training was thorough. ''This is the stuff you really need to know, and that you don't learn in business school,'' he said. ''They have a template model, and they walk you through page by page.''
The growing ranks in boot camps underscore a little-noticed trend by Wall Street banks and other financial firms to outsource technical training. Such knowledge is crucial to carrying out the daily tasks of many disciplines on Wall Street -- whether it is the merger deal-making, bond trading or sell-side analysis.
''I just want someone who can really use Excel and PowerPoint,'' said one senior loan syndication banker at a European bank, describing his recent interviews of newly minted M.B.A.'s in New York.
Nineteen of the country's top 20 business schools now use Training the Street to teach an estimated 20,000 business majors every year in how to interpret financial statements, value corporations and run spreadsheet analyses.
''A lot of investment banks are casting a wider net, so they're spending more time emphasizing getting people up to speed fast,'' said Matan Feldman, who founded Wall Street Prep in 2003 after working as an analyst and associate at JPMorgan Chase. Because of the camps, ''you don't have as many clueless liberal arts majors anymore,'' Mr. Feldman said.
Even the banks themselves send legions of their young hires for training. Credit Suisse, Merrill Lynch and Bank of America and others have hired Training the Street to school summer interns on credit analysis and mergers and acquisitions.
Such fundamentals also are valuable outside of Wall Street in businesses such as brand management and to technology companies in Silicon Valley that do financial modeling, said Missy Bailey, senior associate director of M.B.A. career services at the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California.
The training does not come cheap. Business schools pay Training the Street as much as $1,300 a student for a course. Wall Street Prep, also used by most top business schools and more than 150 banks and financial firms, charges corporate clients as much as $1,499 per student for a three-day course.
Darin Oduyoye, a spokesman for JPMorgan, said that the bank uses both companies for things like basic training for new associates and helping analysts prepare for licensing exams. ''We also obviously augment these training and development opportunities with our own in-house programs,'' Mr. Oduyoye said.
In June, Chevron, ConocoPhillips and Exxon Mobil, and banks involved in the energy business, will send about 15 new or recent hires to a three-day course in New York run by Wall Street Prep on valuing oil and gas companies.
These programs are also courting ever-younger students, and their parents' wallets. In June, Training the Street will start a four-day Undergraduate Wall Street Boot Camp in New York and will charge students $3,000 (not including accommodations) to learn the basics of financial modeling, valuation and analysis. Wall Street Prep, widely viewed as more intensive on analytics, sells CD-ROMs for $39, for a basic Excel course, and as much as $499 for a ''premium package'' detailing financial modeling.
With the sluggish economy and a hiring downturn on Wall Street, where the number of securities and commodities jobs had declined by 30 percent to just under 170,000 since the peak in 2000, students say the courses, which include interview preparation, are a practical necessity.
Even the boot camp industry is acquiring a brass-knuckled intensity, as the camps expand to business schools in London, Singapore and Dubai; to undergraduate finance clubs; and to liberal arts majors at Colby College and Smith College, among others.
Much of the curriculum is developed by people who once worked in the Wall Street trenches. Wall Street Prep employs nine instructors, all former junior investment bankers.
Scott Rostan, who founded Training the Street in 1999 after working as an analyst at Merrill Lynch's investment bank, has a small army of former Wall Streeters as instructors. ''If all of your competition is taking an outside boot camp and you're not, you're going to be behind the curve,'' Mr. Rostan said.
Surry Wood, now in his last year of business school at the University of North Carolina, spoke of an internship at Barclays Bank in New York last summer and building an enterprise valuation model for a company. His Bloomberg terminal valued the company at $5.7 billion, but Mr. Wood, using a Training the Street technique, came up with $5.5 billion, he said.
When the managing director asked Mr. Wood to walk him through the calculations, ''I just broke it down for him,'' Mr. Wood said. ''That was a very good moment for me. By the end of the summer he was kind of pounding the table for me.'' Mr. Wood starts full time at Barclays as an investment banking associate in July.
As boot camp training becomes more common, a saturation effect could occur. If everyone is taking classes like Excel Best Practices and Restructuring Modeling, doing so may not make one candidate stand out in job interviews.
But Wesley Hansen said such a course was vital when he switched to a career in finance. He was a camera operator on reality shows like ''The Bachelor'' before graduating last year from the University of Southern California's Marshall School of Business, where he took Training the Street courses.
''I had no clue how to use Excel, so it helped me get a job, no doubt,'' said Mr. Hansen, who is now an equity analyst in California with the brokerage firm BMA Securities.
.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kristen Kelly of Training the Street, one of several companies that teach Wall Street hires the basics, like spreadsheet building and financial analysis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); BONDS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); TRENDS (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); MERGERS (67%); SYNDICATED LOANS (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%); SECURITIES TRADING (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BX (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1014 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 4132 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By LORI HOLCOMB and ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
TALKS AT THE 92ND STREET Y (Sunday through Thursday) Magic, music and politics -- with a dash of fashion -- will be in the mix next week during talks at the Y. On Sunday at 7 p.m., the magician Steve Cohen, below, will talk with Dick Cavett, who began his show business career doing magic tricks, and Robert Palumbo, the writer, director and one of the executive producers of a recent History Channel special that featured Mr. Cohen.
On Tuesday at 8:15 p.m. the rock star John Mellencamp, top left, will discuss his latest projects -- including a musical with Stephen King -- with the entertainment lawyer Allen Grubman. On Wednesday at 8 p.m. issues like immigration, government debt and a failing infrastructure will be the focus of a political discussion between Arianna Huffington, above, president and editor in chief of the Huffington Post Media Group, and Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of ''Foreign Policy Begins at Home: The Case for Putting America's House in Order.'' 
On Thursday at 8:15 p.m., Ralph Nader, top right, the political activist, will give his assessment of where he thinks America is headed in a talk with Amy Goodman, a co-host, with Juan González, of the news show ''Democracy Now!,'' broadcast locally on WBAI (99.5 FM).
Also on Thursday, at 8 p.m., the fashion designer Oscar de la Renta will talk about his career with Fern Mallis, host of the radio show ''Fashion Insiders With Fern Mallis,'' on Sirius XM. Ticket prices range from $29 to $36, with $15 tickets at some events for those 35 and younger, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org. Not a bad week ahead for the spoken word. (Anne Mancuso)
Around Town
Museums and Sites
American Museum of Natural History: 'Frogs: A Chorus of Color' (daily through Jan. 5) More than 150 live frogs representing 25 species are on view in re-creations of their natural habitats in this exhibition highlighting the amphibians' evolution, biology and challenges to survival in our changing environment. From 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5200, amnh.org; timed tickets, with the suggested admission price of $25; $19 for students and 60+; $14.50 for children 12 and under.
American Museum of Natural History: 'Whales: Giants of the Deep' (daily through Jan. 5) This interactive exhibition covers the world of the giant mammals, in context to humans and other animals. From 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5200, amnh.org; timed tickets, with the suggested admission price of $25; $19 for students and 60+; $14.50 for children 12 and under.
Bronx Museum: 'Solace on the Line' (through Sept. 8) For Benjamin Boakye, pastor of the Ebenezer Assembly of God Church in the Bronx, a spiritual connection with his congregants -- caregivers who cannot easily leave the homes of their charges -- is just a phone call away. The stories of these caregivers and their pastor are the focus of this exhibition with images by Todd Heisler, a photographer for The New York Times, and text by the writer Susan Hartman. Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., Fridays from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m., 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org; free.
Brooklyn Museum: 'Life, Death, and Transformation in the Americas' (Saturday) Part of the monthly Target First Saturdays series, this event features live musical and dance performances (the Chilean singer-songwriter Claudia Acuña performs at 5 p.m.), storytelling, gallery talks, hands-on activities and demonstrations inspired by the influences that indigenous societies in the Americas have had on contemporary culture. From 5 to 10 p.m., 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org; free.
Center for Jewish History: 'Passages Through the Fire: Jews and the Civil War' (Monday and through Aug. 11) Sponsored by the American Jewish Historical Society and Yeshiva University Museum, this exhibition tells the stories of American Jews of the 1800s who were caught in the turmoil of the Civil War. It consists of more than 250 photographs, documents and other items from private collections, libraries and museums. On Monday, two discussions on the topic are planned -- at 6 p.m., John Sellers, a Civil War scholar, will talk about Jews who fought during the Civil War; at 6:30 p.m. a panel discussion about Jewish participation in the Battle of Gettysburg will feature Robert D. Marcus, a collector who provided many items for the show; Lance Sussman, an historian; and Gary Kross, a Gettysburg tour guide; tickets are $15, $10 for members, students and 65+. Exhibition hours are Fridays from 11 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.; Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Mondays from 5 to 8 p.m.; and Wednesdays from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 294-8330, cjh.org; $8; $6 for students and 65+; free for under 5 and members and for everyone on Mondays, Wednesdays, 5 to 8 p.m. and all day Fridays.
Museum of the City of New York: 'A Beautiful Way to Go: New York's Green-Wood Cemetery' (daily) This exhibition celebrating the historic Brooklyn cemetery's 175th anniversary includes artifacts, documents, photographs and other items. From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; $10, $6 for students and 65+, $20 for families, free for members and 12 and under.
Museum of the City of New York: Fashion Talks (Saturday and Thursday) The career of the fashion designer Stephen Burrows is the subject of the exhibition, ''Stephen Burrows: When Fashion Danced,'' on display through July 28. On Saturday at 1 p.m. a tour of the exhibition will be led by its curator Phyllis Magidson. On Thursday at 6:30 p.m., the fashion designers Anna Sui and Isabel and Ruben Toledo will discuss Mr. Burrow's designs; Robin Givhan, a fashion writer, is the moderator. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (917) 492-3395, mcny.org; Thursday's event: $12, $8 for 65+ and students and $6 for members; Saturday's tour is free with museum admission. Reservations are required.
Museum of the Moving Image: 'Spectacle: The Music Video' (through June 16) The history of the music video, from Vitaphone shorts of the 1920s to contemporary videos featuring Lady Gaga and others, is told in this exhibition of installations, projections and objects. Museum hours: Friday from 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday from 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $12, $9 for students and 65+, $6 for children 3 to 12; free for members, children under 3 and for everyone on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.
New-York Historical Society: Thelma Schoonmaker (Friday) A screening of ''I Know Where I'm Going!,'' a film by the director Michael Powell, will be introduced by Ms. Schoonmaker, the director's widow and a longtime film editor for Martin Scorsese. Free tickets to the event, which begins at 7 p.m., will be distributed beginning at 6 p.m. The screening is part of the series ''World War II and Its Legacy in Film,'' which runs through June 7. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org.
New York Public Library: 'Celebrating Federico García Lorca' (Tuesday and continuing through July 20) On view through July 20 is the exhibition ''Back Tomorrow: Federico Garcia Lorca/Poet in New York,'' with manuscripts, photographs and personal items highlighting the poet's career. On Tuesday at 7 p.m., an event in celebration of his life will feature performances and readings by the poets John Giorno, Philip Levine and Paul Muldoon; the actor Will Keen and the singer and musician Patti Smith; tickets are $25, $15 for 60+ and Friends of the New York Public Library and students. The exhibition can be viewed Mondays, and Thursdays through Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 10 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; and Sundays from 1 to 5 p.m.; (917) 275-6975, nypl.org/events/exhibitions; free.
New York Public Library for the Performing Arts: '100 Years of Flamenco in New York' (through Aug. 3) This exhibition traces the popularity of the dance form in the city, from the mid-1800s to the present, through engravings and photographs, printed materials, costume pieces and films and recordings. Viewing hours: Fridays, Saturdays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays from noon to 6 p.m., Mondays and Thursdays from noon to 8 p.m., 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (917) 275-6975, nypl.org/lpa; free.
'On Time/Grand Central at 100' (through July 7) This multimedia exhibition, commissioned for the occasion, features 18 artists' impressions of time, travel and the commuters who flood the terminal each day in pieces incorporating painting, video photography and sculpture. It can be viewed weekdays from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex and Store, Grand Central Terminal, near the Station Masters' Office, (212) 878-0106, grandcentralterminal.com/centennial; free.
Skyscraper Museum: 'The Woolworth Building @ 100' (through July 14) An exhibition celebrating the 100th anniversary of this Cass Gilbert-designed building -- when completed in 1913 it was considered the tallest office building in the world -- features blueprints, photographs, contracts and other items. Wednesdays through Sundays from noon to 6 p.m.; 39 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (212) 968-1961, skyscraper.org; $5, $2.50 for students and 65+.
Gardens
Queens Botanical Garden (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) It's a busy week for those with green thumbs, beginning with Community Volunteer Day on Sunday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., 43-50 Main Street, Flushing, Queens, queensbotanical.org; free; registration required, e-mail rforlenza@queensbotanical.org or call (718) 886-3800, Ext. 204. On Tuesday at 5:30 p.m., learn how to turn kitchen scraps and lawn trimmings into gardening gold at ''NYC Compost Project in Queens: Composting in the City at the Queens County Farm Museum,'' 73-50 Little Neck Parkway, Floral Park; $5; registration required, e-mail compost@queensbotanical.org or call (718) 539-5296. The gardening gloves come off Thursday for the 18th annual Rose Gala, with all proceeds benefiting the gardens and programming. At 6 p.m., on the terrace of the Queens Botanical Garden visitor and administration center. (718) 886-3800, Ext. 202, or queensbotanical.org/programs/rosegala; $300, registration required.
Events
'Beyond Sandy: Keeping the Conversation Alive' boat tours (Tuesdays, through Sept. 24) This special Hidden Harbors series from the Working Harbor Committee and New York Water Taxi focuses on environmental issues facing New York's waterfronts, as well as businesses and residents affected by Hurricane Sandy. There are three alternating tours, ''High Seas on the Inner Harbor,'' ''Fire, Floods and Floating Containers'' and ''Protecting Our Ports,'' and each features guest speakers from government agencies, the maritime industry, universities and recovery organizations. The tours are two hours and depart at 6:30 p.m. from Pier 16 at South Street Seaport, Fulton and Front Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 742-1969, workingharbor.com; $39, $32 for 60+, $25 for children ages 4 through 12.
Brooklyn Film Festival (Friday through June 9) More than 100 films from around the globe will be screened at this competition, including 32 world premieres -- two of which will bookend the competition on opening and closing nights: ''HairBrained,'' directed by Billy Kent, will be shown Friday at 8 p.m., and ''Cut to Black,'' by Dan Eberle, will screen June 9 at 8 p.m. The festival takes place at various times at Windmill Studios NYC and indieScreen, 287 and 289 Kent Avenue, near South First Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, brooklynfilmfestival.org; $12; $10 for students and 65+.
Celebrate Israel Parade (Sunday) This annual parade honoring the founding of the state of Israel -- this year is the nation's 65th anniversary -- will begin at 11 a.m. at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street and head north to 74th Street; celebrateisraelny.org. There will be marching bands, other musicians and members of the Israel National Soccer Team.
8th Annual Taste of LIC (Tuesday) Sample food and beverages from 50 local restaurants at this celebration of Long Island City's cultural and culinary scenes. The event is a fund-raiser for The Chocolate Factory theater's upcoming season. Live musical performances, silent auctions and toasts from local politicians are also planned. At 6:30 p.m., Gantry Plaza State Park, at 49th Avenue and Center Boulevard, on the East River Waterfront, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org; $60 for general admission.
Howl! Festival (Friday through Sunday) More than 350 artists, poets and performers will participate in the annual celebration -- this is the 10th -- of the history and creativity of the East Village. Highlights include a group reading of Allen Ginsberg's ''Howl'' on Friday at 4:30 p.m., as well as a kids' carnival, a Disco Tea Dance, a marathon reading and music session by the Poetry Project and a tribute to a century of trailblazing women from the Lower East Side. Friday from 4:30 to 7 p.m., Saturday and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., Tompkins Square Park, East Village, (212) 466-6666, howlfestival.com; free.
Philippine Independence Day Parade and Festival (Sunday) The day begins with a ceremony and service at 8:30 a.m. at the Philippine Center, 556 Fifth Avenue, near 45th Street. A street fair will follow at 10 a.m. on Madison Avenue, between 24th and 26th Streets, as well as a parade, at noon, which will travel down Madison Avenue from 38th to 27th Streets; pidci.org.
Prospect Lefferts Gardens House and Garden Tour (Sunday) This annual self-guided Brooklyn tour -- the 43rd sponsored by the Lefferts Manor Association -- will include late 19th-and-early-20th-century homes as well as prewar apartments. Noon to 5 p.m.; only children 12 and older and infants carried in front packs by adults will be allowed in the houses. (718) 284-6210, leffertsmanor.org; $20 in advance; $25 on Sunday. Tickets on Sunday will be available at the Lincoln Park Tavern, 51 Lincoln Road, between Flatbush and Ocean Avenues.
Queens Pride 2013 (Sunday) This annual event in celebration of lesbian and gay pride begins with a parade at noon on 37th Avenue, from 85th to 75th Streets, in Jackson Heights, and will be followed by a street fair from noon to 6 p.m. on 37th Road, between 74th and 77th Streets. (718) 228-7599, queenspride.org.
Readings, Discussions and a Street Fair at Housing Works Bookstore Cafe (Sunday and Tuesday through Thursday) Starting things off will be a fair on Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. outside the bookstore on Crosby Street with items for sale as well as entertainment and food. On Tuesday at 7 p.m. a free discussion about the rappers 2Pac (Tupac Shakur) and the Notorious B.I.G. (Christopher Wallace) will include speakers like Jeff Weiss and Evan McGarvey, co-authors of ''2Pac vs. Biggie: An Illustrated History of Rap's Greatest Battle''; Peter Rosenberg, a D.J. with Hot 97 and Drew (Dru Ha) Friedman, an executive with Duck Down Music. On Wednesday at 7 p.m., a reading that revolves around the issue of food and eating -- and includes food sampling -- will feature the authors Jeff Gordinier, a contributor to the book ''The Cassoulet Saved Our Marriage: True Tales of Food, Family, and How We Learn to Eat''; Kelly Geary (''Tart and Sweet: 101 Canning and Pickling Recipes for the Modern Kitchen''); Michael Moss, also a reporter for The New York Times (''Salt Sugar Fat: How the Food Giants Hooked Us''); and Jack Summers of the brewery Jack From Brooklyn; suggested donation, $5. And on Thursday at 6 p.m., ''Eat Your Feelings: Stories of Food, Jews & Your Mom,'' an evening of storytelling sponsored by Tumblr, with the writers Jami Attenberg, Jason Diamond, Ophira Eisenberg and others. 126 Crosby Street, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 334-3324, housingworksbookstore.org.
'Real Women on the Reel' (Wednesday) This event serves the dual role of celebrating the premiere of a short film by Respect Films!, as well as raising funds and awareness for Bottomless Closet, a nonprofit that helps disadvantaged New York City women. Music, appetizers, drinks and a raffle also are in store for guests beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Cutting Room, 44 East 32nd Street, near Park Avenue, (212) 563-2499, bottomlessclosetnyc.org/realwomen.html; $40 in advance; $50 at the door.
Seafarers and International House Street Fair (Sunday) From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Third Avenue, between 14th and 23rd Streets, Manhattan.
'The Spirit of Pride: Queer First' (Saturday) An evening of song and poetry in conjunction with Gay Pride Month, featuring performances by Ryan Amador and Jo Lampert, the Lavender Light Gospel Choir, and others. At 7:30 p.m., Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org/QueerFirst.html; free.
Spring Crafts Festival (Sunday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on the west side of Broadway, between 65th and 72nd Streets, Manhattan.
St. Nicholas Avenue Festival (Saturday) From noon to 5 p.m., between 181st and 188th Streets, Washington Heights.
Third Avenue Community Benefit Festival (Saturday) From noon to 5 p.m., between 66th and 86th Streets, Manhattan.
West 44th Street Better Block Association Garage Sale (Saturday) The 37th annual sale is from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., on West 44th Street, between 9th and 10th Avenues, Clinton, (212) 479-7920, west44nyc.com. Rain date is June 8.
World Nomads Tunisia (Friday) The French Institute Alliance Française concludes the fifth edition of its World Nomads festival, which celebrates French-speaking cultures. An exhibition of paintings, photographs and video installations is on view in the FIAF Gallery, Florence Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan. A documentary of graffiti artists Jaye and eL Seed's experiences collaborating with New York graffiti artists during the festival, will be on view at 5Pointz, 45-46 Davis Street, at Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens; free. (800) 982-2787, fiaf.org; films are $10, $7 for students, free for members.
World Science Festival (through Sunday) This annual festival for science and math lovers of all ages continues around the city. Locations include the New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, where a discussion on advances in the treatment of AIDS is planned for 10 a.m. on Friday, as well as New York University, where infinity is the topic of seminars on Friday at 8 p.m. at the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, and on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. at D'Agostino Hall, 110 West Third Street. Some events are sold out, but limited tickets to many may become available. A complete schedule is at worldsciencefestival.com.
Spoken Word
Barney Frank on Military Spending and the Federal Budget (Tuesday) The former Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, will lead a discussion on military spending and the federal budget as part of the Center for Public Scholarship at the New School. Also taking part: Robert Pollin, a professor of economics and co-director of the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. At 6 p.m., Tishman Auditorium of the New School, 66 West 12th Street, Greenwich Village, newschool.edu/events; free, but reservations are recommended: (917) 534-9330 or cps@newschool.edu
Poetry in Theater (Monday) The cross-disciplinary relationship of poetry and theater is the focus of this event sponsored by The Martin E. Segal Center, a nonprofit center for theater, dance and film at CUNY. The program features an afternoon of new and rarely performed poems and plays, including ''Somewhere Near Here,'' written by Yusef Komunyakaa, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet, and directed by Kenneth Sean Collins. At 7:30 p.m. a panel discussion will feature writers, directors and Judith Malina, a founder of the Living Theater. From 2 to 9 p.m., the Graduate Center, Elebash Theater, CUNY, 365 Fifth Avenue at 34th Street, (212) 817-1860, thesegalcenter.org; free.
Walking Tours
'Chinatown: A Walk Through History' (Saturday) The buildings, streets and communities that shaped one of New York's oldest neighborhoods will be the focus of this guided tour, beginning at 1 p.m. at the Museum of Chinese in America, 215 Centre Street, between Howard and Grand Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 619-4785, mocanyc.org; $15, $12 for students and 65+, free for members and children under 12. Registration required.
'Edgar Allan Poe and His Ghostly Neighbors of Greenwich Village' (Saturdays through June 29) Eleanor Roosevelt, Aaron Burr and other ghosts of Greenwich Village will be in the spotlight during this 90-minute tour by Ghosts of New York, which will take guests to Washington Square Park, New York University library and several Poe sites. Registration required. Meeting at 7:30 p.m., across from Fire Patrol Station No. 2, 85 West Third Street, (646) 493-7092, ghostsofny.com; $25 for tickets purchased online with a credit card, $30 in cash on day of tour.
'Ghosts of Grand Central Celebrate 100 Haunted Years' (Saturday) The Vanderbilts, August Belmont and Franklin Roosevelt and his dog are among the paranormal passengers featured in this 90-minute tour offered by Ghosts of New York. At 7:30 p.m., in front of the New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex and Store, Grand Central Terminal, near the Station Masters' Office, (646) 493-7092, ghostsofny.com; $25 online, $30 if paying with cash.
High Line, Meatpacking District and Greenwich Village (Saturday and Sunday) No need to bring a gift for the ''Happy Birthday High Line'' tour, a celebration of several of the elevated park's June anniversaries that begins at 12:30 p.m. The Titanic Memorial Arch and other meatpacking district landmarks will also be visited; $20. At 2:45 p.m., the ''Greenwich Village History and Dessert Tour'' gives a taste of the neighborhood's sweeter side while exploring historical and cultural sites, like Mark Twain's home and film locations for ''Breakfast at Tiffany's'' and ''Sex and the City''; $27, which includes price of food. Meeting places will be given with reservations: (212) 465-3331.
'Lorca's Route in New York' (Wednesday) This walking tour on Frederico García Lorca's actual birthday retraces the steps the Spanish poet and playwright took as a student at Columbia University in 1929. Highlights include poetry readings and musical performances, as well as stops at the Hispanic Society of America, where Lorca entertained fellow students. Starting at 4 p.m. at Columbia University, 116th Street and Broadway, (646) 342-6457, lorcanyc.com; $25.
'New York's Oldest, Narrowest, Crookedest Streets' (Saturday and Sunday) Streets that have remained unchanged since colonial times are the focus of this two-and-a-half-hour walk beginning at 11 a.m. in front of Trinity Church, Broadway at Wall Street, Lower Manhattan, (917) 607-9019, indepthwalkingtours.com; $20.
Recreation
Celebrate Israel Four-Mile Run and Kids' Races (Sunday) This run in Central Park, co-sponsored by the New York Road Runners and the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York, begins at 8 a.m. on the East Drive, south of 68th Street; kids' races begin at 9:30 a.m. Registration takes place on Friday from 1 to 7 p.m. and Saturday from 11:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the New York Road Runners, 9 East 89th Street; on race day registration in the park begins at 6:30 a.m. Advance race fees are $37, $23 for members, $15 for those 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $40, $25 and $20; kids' race fee, $6 in advance, $8 on Sunday. (212) 860-4455, nyrr.org
'Changing the World Is a Walk in the Park' (Saturday) This annual event raises money for YAI, a nonprofit that helps people with disabilities and their families in the New York area. It consists of a five-kilometer run, a three-kilometer walk and races for children in Central Park, taking place around the Naumburg Bandshell, midpark at 72nd Street. The run begins at 9 a.m.; registration is 7:30 a.m.; $30. The walk begins at 9:45 a.m.; registration is at 8:30 a.m.; $25. Children's races and activities like face painting, sand art and games, from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.; $10. (877) 924-9255, yai.org/cpc. LORI HOLCOMB AND ANNE MANCUSO
Information on events for possible inclusion in Spare Times should be sent to weekend@nytimes.com by Monday at 5 p.m. for publication that week. Longer versions of Around Town and For Children listings are in a searchable guide at nytimes.com/events.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
EVAN AGOSTINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
DOMINIQUE FAGET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); HISTORY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); EXHIBITIONS (85%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (85%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); WRITERS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); WILDLIFE (66%); MAMMALS (66%); ANIMALS (65%); SATELLITE RADIO (64%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (60%); EVOLUTION THEORY (60%)

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); STEVE COHEN (78%); RICK PERRY (73%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (73%); STEPHEN KING (71%); STEVEN A COHEN (71%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013



1015 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Bush Terrorism Fight May Be Fodder in F.B.I. Confirmation

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The pending nomination of James B. Comey to be director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation will probably shine a fresh light on some controversial chapters in George W. Bush's war on terrorism, with Republicans more likely than Democrats to question his role in the Bush Justice Department.
But senior Senate aides said no immediate red flags were raised on Capitol Hill to indicate a bruising confirmation fight when President Obama makes his choice official. The White House said nothing publicly about the nomination on Thursday, and according to officials, the F.B.I. had not begun a formal background check on Mr. Comey when news broke on Wednesday evening that Mr. Obama had settled on him as the nominee.
Mr. Comey, 52, a Republican and former deputy attorney general in the Bush administration, received a muted response from Congress, since lawmakers are away for the Memorial Day recess. But there is little recent precedent for a confirmation battle. The five F.B.I. directors confirmed since J. Edgar Hoover's death in 1972 all sailed through the Senate. (The very first nominee, L. Patrick Gray III, withdrew from consideration in 1973 amid concerns over Watergate.) 
As for Mr. Comey, many of the policy disputes in the years after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, had already faded by the end of Mr. Bush's second term.
Still, some Republicans familiar with Mr. Comey's tenure at the Justice Department -- while broadly praising him -- raised questions about clashes he had with higher-ups in the Bush White House.
One House Republican with experience in the Bush administration, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so he could be frank about a fellow administration official, talked of an ''unpredictable'' man who ''was not a good, solid member of the team.''
''Those wild-card aspects to his job performance in the past also apply to the nomination process,'' the lawmaker said. ''He could slip through, or he could blow up.''
Andrew H. Card Jr., one of the central figures in a now-famous episode involving Mr. Comey, gave him a ringing endorsement on Thursday.
''I would be glad to stand before anybody to say I think Jim Comey is a noble, honorable person that should have their confidence,'' said Mr. Card, Mr. Bush's longtime chief of staff.
In that episode in 2004, Mr. Card and the White House counsel, Alberto R. Gonzales, sought to persuade Attorney General John Ashcroft -- who was hospitalized and disoriented -- to reauthorize the administration's controversial warrantless eavesdropping program.
As Mr. Comey, who was then acting attorney general, has told it, he rushed to the hospital to tip off Mr. Ashcroft. Mr. Ashcroft weakly rose from his hospital bed and refused to sign.
Mr. Card said that he and Mr. Gonzales did not bring the issue to Mr. Ashcroft's bedside ''of our own accord,'' but that Mr. Bush had sent them. He said he had not even known that Mr. Ashcroft had named Mr. Comey acting attorney general, and when told, politely let the eavesdropping matter drop.
While saying he feels ''terrible'' about the dispute between him and Mr. Comey, Mr. Card called it a legitimate policy and legal difference, not a matter of politics versus legality, as Comey advocates have put it. And he offered some mild criticism of Mr. Comey's behavior that night.
''I think he reacted with a little more emotion than I would have expected,'' he said, ''but I thought he always performed well.''
Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, who as the former chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee will have no say in Mr. Comey's nomination but many dealings with him if he is confirmed, praised Mr. Obama's choice. ''I may have had differences as far as his interpretation of the surveillance act, but he's a thorough professional,'' Mr. King said.
Indeed, the one question raised publicly so far has focused on Mr. Comey's tenure as general counsel at a major hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates, where he worked from 2010 to earlier this year.
''If he's nominated, he would have to answer questions about his recent work in the hedge fund industry,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, which has oversight over the F.B.I. ''The administration's efforts to criminally prosecute Wall Street for its part in the economic downturn have been abysmal, and his agency would have to help build the case against some of his colleagues in this lucrative industry.''
In the coming days, a special unit in the F.B.I.'s security division, which handles background checks of high-profile government appointees, will move forward with a short investigation of Mr. Comey's past, focusing in particular on the period after he left the government in 2004, working for Bridgewater Associates and before that, Lockheed Martin.
As part of that process, Mr. Comey will be asked to fill out a form about his finances and foreign travel. F.B.I. officials in Washington will then ask agents across the country to verify that information.
Mr. Comey's nomination has been described as an overture of bipartisanship similar to Mr. Obama's nomination of another Republican, former Senator Chuck Hagel, to be secretary of defense. Like Mr. Hagel, Mr. Comey is known most for his public break with Republican Party orthodoxy.
Mr. Hagel's breach, however, was over the Iraq war, still a raw subject in the party. Mr. King said issues like warrantless surveillance were grayer areas that both parties grappled with after 9/11.
''They were difficult times,'' he said.
In fact, key members from both parties might see Mr. Comey's past stands as a plus for a position like F.B.I. director.
Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah and a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, said Thursday that the director ''needs to be fiercely independent from the political pressures that, as we have seen, can affect even the Justice Department.''
Once his nomination is official, Mr. Comey's confirmation process will be overseen by the White House's general counsel, Kathryn Ruemmler, who was among the administration officials who interviewed him for the job, according to officials.
The White House has a short window to do something that has never happened before: have a new F.B.I. director in place when the previous one still has the post. In all other instances, there has been an acting director because the previous one has resigned or died. Robert S. Mueller III is mandated to leave his post on Sept. 4, so Mr. Comey would have to be confirmed before Congress takes a recess for the month of August.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James B. Comey, a Republican mentioned as President Obama's choice for F.B.I. chief, in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); ALBERTO GONZALES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2013



1016 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: May 31

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Bangladeshi DNA lab struggles after disaster; the Vatican Bank tries to become more transparent; overhauling the E.U.&#8217;s fishing policies; new talent in ballet choreography; and the youngsters are weeded out at the French Open. 

 BODY:
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria displayed a new level of defiance on Thursday, warning Israel that he could permit attacks on the Golan Heights and suggesting that he had secured plenty of weapons from Russia - possibly including an advanced missile system - as his opponents faltered politically and Hezbollah fighters infused force into his military campaign to crush the Syrian insurgency. Anne Barnard reports from Beirut, and Neil MacFarquhar from the United Nations. 
 NEWS Anger over the Rana Plaza collapse in Bangladesh has intensified the pressure on a small lab struggling to make DNA matches with the remains of about 300 unidentified victims. Jim Yardley reports from Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Despite their democratic turn, Indonesian political parties are increasingly turning to graft to finance their operations. Joe Cochrane reports from Jakarta.
In one of the most surprising verdicts of its checkered prosecution of Balkan war crimes, a United Nations court on Thursday acquitted two close aides of the former Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic, spurning the prosecution's demand for life sentences for his once all-powerful secret police chief and the chief's deputy. Marlise Simons reports from Paris.
The Vatican Bank, long shrouded in mystery, has been under pressure to bring its practices in line with European norms to curb money-laundering and terrorist-financing. Rachel Donadio reports from Vatican City.
Since the case involving the television personality Jimmy Savile came to light in October, the British Broadcasting Corporation has received 152 new allegations of sexual abuse and harassment by 81 current and former employees, the broadcaster said Thursday. Sarah Lyall reports from London.
The Southern Africa Development Fund, financed by the United States Agency for International Development, is dissolving because of mismanagement, insider dealings and a lack of federal oversight. Barry Meier and Ron Nixon report.
The European Union on Thursday agreed to an overhaul of the region's fisheries policy, a deal intended to make commercial fishing more sustainable. David Jolly reports from Paris.
 FASHION Olivier Saillard, the director of a premier fashion museum in Paris, has been planning an exhibit on Azzedine Alaïa for museum's reopening in September. Suzy Menkes reports from Paris.
"The Marriage of Figaro," performed at the Walt Disney Concert Hall, received a fashionable touch from Azzedine Alaïa. Suzy Menkes writes.
 ARTS The past few years have seen a sudden crop of new and exciting talent emerge in ballet choreography. Roslyn Sulcas writes from London.
 SPORTS The last teenager in the men's singles lost on Thursday at the French Open as the days of youngsters crowding the courts seem to be receding. Christopher Clarey reports from Paris.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); RELIGION (90%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (85%); BALLET (84%); DANCE (84%); CHOREOGRAPHY (84%); POLITICS (79%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (75%); DNA (75%); TEST LABORATORIES (75%); DNA TESTING (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); VERDICTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (69%); ACQUITTAL (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (68%); SENTENCING (68%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (68%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (62%); FISHERIES (62%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (57%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (66%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (77%) BANGLADESH (94%); SYRIA (94%); FRANCE (93%); LEBANON (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1017 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: How to Cure the College Dropout Syndrome

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A conversation with Jeffrey Selingo, the author of &#8220;College (Un)Bound,&#8221; who argues that the higher-education system is both vital to the American economy and &#8220;broken.&#8221; 

 BODY:
Jeffrey Selingo, the former editor of The Chronicle of Higher Education and currently an editor at large there, is the author of a new book, "College (Un)Bound." In it, he argues that the higher-education system is both vital to the American economy and "broken." My exchange with him, edited slightly, follows.
 Q. 
 You start your book by telling the story of a young woman named Samantha Dietz and describing the widespread phenomenon of enrolling in college without graduating. You write: "Only slightly more than 50 percent of American students who enter college leave with a bachelor's degree. Among wealthy countries, only Italy ranks lower." Why does the United States do a worse job of getting people through college than enrolling them in it? 
 A. 
College is one of the biggest financial investments we make in our lifetime, yet many families largely make their decision based on emotion. Prospective students start touring colleges in high school, well before they know how much a particular school might actually cost them. They are distracted by the bells and whistles on campus tours, fall in love with a campus and fail to ask the right questions. (Tools like collegerealitycheck.com and the Obama administration's College Scorecard can help.)
So many students end up poorly matching to their campus. That's why a third of students now transfer before earning a degree, and many unfortunately simply drop out.
At the same time, we have this fascination with the bachelor's degree in the United States, and we think everyone needs to earn one at the same point in their lifetime, enrolling at 18 years old. The economy demands that more students have an education after high school, but not everyone is ready for college at 18. Many of them end up in college because we have few maturing alternatives after high school, whether it's national service, apprenticeships or structured "gap year" experiences. 
Finally, campus culture and money play a role. If you go to a college with a low graduation rate, your peers have an impact on your thinking: if no one else is graduating in four years, why should I? Others drop out because their financial situation changes while they are there and they can no longer afford it.
 Q. 
 There is an economic reason we have a fascination with the bachelor's degree, isn't there? It brings a huge economic return. The jobless rate for four-year college grads is less than 4 percent, and the wage premium is very large - much larger than it once was. As you write, "By almost every measure, college graduates lead healthier and longer lives, have better working conditions, have healthier children who perform better in school, have more interest in art and reading, speak and write more clearly, have a greater acceptance of differences in people and are more civically active." 
How would you respond to the argument that everyone should aspire to a bachelor's degree? Not everyone will make it. Many would need to start at a community college or with remedial work. But I can't help but notice that most of the people arguing that "college isn't for everyone" insist that their own kids go.
 A. 
I'm not arguing that you shouldn't aspire to a bachelor's degree because, as you note, it does bring great economic returns. But why does it need to happen for everyone at 18?
For some, a two-year degree might be more appropriate at 18. And recent studies of wage data of college graduates in Virginia, Tennessee and a few other states show that the wage returns of technical two-year degrees are greater than many bachelor's degrees in the first year after college.
Someone who isn't ready for a four-year college at 18 and ends up dropping out is in some ways worse off than a high-school graduate who never went to college at all. Sure, college dropouts have some credits, but still no degree, and it's likely that they have debt.
Let's think of extending the period for a bachelor's to be sure more students succeed in getting one. We don't need alternatives to the bachelor's degree, just more constructive detours on the pathway to college for those who are not ready at 18.
 Q. 
 That's a fascinating way of thinking about it: different paths, more than a different destination. (And whatever that study of Tennessee and Virginia shows about the first year after college, I have yet to see evidence that any alternative beats the long-term returns of a bachelor's degree.) 
Given how problematic it is for people to have college debt without a college degree - as many people unfortunately do - what do you think federal and state policy makers should do to change colleges with low graduation rates?
 A. 
Well, the first thing federal and state policy makers can do is come up with a better way to measure graduation rates. The current rate counts only first-time students who enroll in the fall and complete degrees in "150 percent of normal time" - six years, for students seeking bachelor's degrees. It doesn't include students who transfer to other colleges and then graduate or those who transfer in and graduate. By one estimate, it excludes up to 50 percent of enrolled students.
A national student record database would allow policy makers to track students as they move among colleges. Once we have a better measure, then colleges that do well in actually graduating students should be rewarded, especially for those students who are not expected to complete college. For example, colleges that graduate Pell Grant recipients above the national average or students who are first in their family to go to college should get access to more federal aid for those students.
And all colleges need more skin in the student-loan game. Students are being saddled with higher amounts of debt, and the schools have little responsibility as they encourage more and more families to take on more debt. Right now, the only punishment is that colleges with high default rates are thrown out of the federal program. But that rarely happens. Colleges need to put some of their own dollars at risk if they are asking students and their parents to take on loans above certain amounts.
 Q. 
 The last major section of your book is called "The Future." So let me ask you to look ahead and predict one significant way in which a typical campus experience at a four-year college will be significantly different in 2023 than it is in 2013. 
 A. 
The biggest difference will be the injection of technology into the curriculum, with more courses taught in hybrid format, meaning a mix of face to face and online. That will allow for a more personalized experience for students so they can learn at their own pace and break the traditional idea of the academic calendar where everyone needs to start in September and end in May.

        
What Makes a College 'Selective' - and Why It Matters
        
Changing the Culture of College Application
        
Q. and A. on the 'Shell Game' of College Aid
        
Life Is O.K., if You Went to College
        
Where the Raises Are: Trucking and Academia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); WRITERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (74%) Admissions Standards; Chronicle of Higher Education; Colleges and Universities; Selingo, Jeffrey; Book Chat

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Chronicle of Higher Education

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%) Selingo, Jeffrey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1018 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Newt Economic Thinking

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: After the debate. 

 BODY:
OK, we had our Munk debate, and I have a few minutes to blog here at Pearson airport; for what it's worth, my side "won" the audience vote.
The notes I used for my opening 6 minutes (I didn't read them exactly) are after the jump:
Good evening. I'm delighted to be here, in this lovely city, which among other things appears to have a much more interesting mayor than any city I've ever lived in. But that's not what we're here to talk about; we're here to talk about taxing the rich. 
Now, there are big philosophical and social issues involved here, and I believe that my colleague George Papandreou will be taking on some of those issues. What I want to do in these opening remarks is focus on several fairly mundane questions. First, why should we be thinking about increasing anyone's taxes? Second, can we actually raise significant sums of money from higher top rates? Third, should we fear disastrous economic consequences if raise top rates?
So, on the first question: right now the United States is operating in a political regime in which we are constantly being told that we can't afford to do good things because the money just isn't there. Here's an example I've been looking at: food stamps, which have been an utterly vital lifeline for millions of Americans in recent years. Never mind, say some politicians - we can't just keep spending money we don't have. And so Republicans in Congress have voted to kick 2 million people off the rolls, for a saving of about $2 billion a year. 
So how do sums like these compare with the amount of taxable income at the top? Well, in 2011 the top 1 percent of Americans had a combined income of about $1.4 trillion, not counting capital gains. So if we could raise the average tax rate this elite pays by just 1/7th of one percent, we could obviate the supposed need for those food stamp cuts. Obviously I'd like to raise a lot more revenue than that, and reinforce a lot of other programs, but I hope this gives you some sense of the reality that there's a lot of money at the top, and taxing it a bit more could make a big difference to our lives.
But can you collect more taxes from the rich? Won't the money just go underground? No. Yes, raising rates will lead to more tax avoidance and evasion - but bear in mind that the United States has moved top tax rates around a lot over the years, giving us very good evidence on how taxable income actually responds to rate hikes and cuts; and what that evidence tells us is that rates would have to be a lot higher than they are now, at least 70 percent and probably above 80, before you'd need to worry that we might be on the wrong side of the Laffer curve.
Finally, should we worry that raising tax rates on the rich will deeply damage the economy? Well, that's always what they say. Back when Bill Clinton raised rates in 1993, one prominent politician said this:
"The tax increase will kill jobs and lead to a recession, and the recession will force people out of work and onto unemployment, and actually increase the deficit."
Now, I know what you're going to say, Newt, because of what you did when Lawrence O'Donnell tried to hold you accountable here - you're going to say that it was all because of Republican tax cuts. But it won't wash. The US economy added 6.7 million jobs during Bill Clinton's first two years in office, that is, before your guys came in. That's 278,000 jobs a month. And while there were some tax cuts further down the line, it's still true that the average tax rate on the top 1 percent was higher in every year of the Clinton administration than in any year of either the Bush I or the Bush II administrations. That didn't stop us from having an economic boom. Sorry, Newt, but you were wrong pure and simple, and you really should man up and admit it.
Oh, and the high top tax rates of the generation that followed World War II didn't stop that from being the greatest generation of economic growth, and in particular of rising middle-class living standards, in U.S. history.
So, should we raise taxes on the rich? Yes, for various reasons, but first of all because we could use the money. Can we actually raise more money that way. Yes. Will it hurt the economy? No. Let's do it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX INCREASES (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); TAX FRAUD (67%); FOOD STAMPS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1019 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2004 words

HEADLINE: Dell Fights Back

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Dell begins its official campaign to support a proposed $24.4 billion sale. | Lloyds Banking to a sell $5 billion in real estate-backed securities. | Would-be masters of the universe learn spreadsheet modeling at &#8216;boot camps.&#8217; 

 BODY:
DELL FIGHTS BACK | The fight over Dell Inc. has climbed to a new level.
The computer maker on Friday began its official campaign to support a proposed $24.4 billion sale of itself to Michael S. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake, amid continued opposition to the deal.
The computer company filed its definitive proxy materials after receiving final approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission. And it set July 18 as the date for a shareholder vote on the transaction.
Dell said that its board had examined every possible alternative to the deal, and rebutted calls by Southeastern Asset Management and Carl C. Icahn to instead pursue a big stock buyback and special dividend. 
"Our analysis led us to conclude unanimously that a sale to the Michael Dell/Silver Lake group for $13.65 per share is the best alternative available - in a challenging business environment it offers certainty and a very material premium over pre-announcement trading prices," the company wrote in a letter to shareholders.
DealBook »
LLOYDS' BIG MORTGAGE SALE | Lloyds Banking announced that it had agreed to sell a portfolio of United States real estate-backed securities for £3.3 billion ($5 billion) to a number of American investors, including Goldman Sachs. The British firm said it expected to generate a pretax income of £540 million from the deal.
The disposal is part of Lloyds' mounting efforts to increase its capital reserves after British regulators demanded that the country's banking sector raise a combined £25 billion to fill a capital shortfall by the end of the year, Mark Scott reports on DealBook.
By offloading the American mortgage-backed securities, the British bank has benefited from a resurgent American property market, where housing prices in March rose almost 11 percent compared to the same period last year, according to the S.&P. Case-Shiller home price index.
DealBook »
ON THE AGENDA | The Chicago Purchasing Managers' Index is released at 9:45 a.m., while the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey is published at 9:55 a.m.
WALL STREET BOOT CAMPS | When millions of dollars rest on telling the difference between a pivot table and a header row, Wall Street will spare no expense to protect its profits.
Enter specialized boot camps where - for fees that sometimes exceed $1,000 a day - would-be masters of the universe can perfect Excel modeling techniques and financial analysis, Lynnley Browning writes on DealBook. 
Each year, tens of thousands of students at the nation's top business schools, and scores of new hires at financial firms, including Goldman Sachs and the Blackstone Group, now take courses run by companies like Training the Street and Wall Street Prep.
Graduates say the classes give them a new appreciation for the heart of financial analysis. An eight-hour crash course on leveraged buyouts from Training the Street was so intensive that it "kind of makes you want to slit your wrists," said Michael Rojas, who graduated from Columbia Business School this month.
DealBook »
 | Contact: @m_delamerced / @markscott82 | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
A Spotlight on Smithfield's Dissident Investor | With its proposed sale to Shuanghui International, Smithfield Foods appears to be eschewing a recommendation by Continental Grain, one of its biggest shareholders, to break itself up. It isn't clear how Continental will respond.
DealBook »
China's Pork Deal May Risk an Uproar | A Chinese meat producer's $4.7 billion acquisition of Smithfield Foods is subject to a national security review, which is no picnic given American anxiety about China, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column.
Deal Professor » | China's Food Deal Extends Its Reach, Already Mighty
Bank of China Said to Provide $4 Billion in Financing for Smithfield Deal | Bank of China will provide up to $4 billion in financing for Shuanghui International's proposed $4.7 billion offer for the pork producer Smithfield Foods.
REUTERS
Dish Network's Bid for Clearwire Complicates Telecom Deal | By bidding for Clearwire at the last minute, Dish Network has complicated several proposed telecommunications deals, which have caused instability in the companies' share prices.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Clearwire Investor Voices Opposition to Sprint Bid | Crest Financial, one of the biggest minority shareholders in Clearwire, has urged the wireless company to not recommend Sprint Nextel's buyout offer after Dish Network made a counter bid.
REUTERS
Berkshire Hathaway Buys The Roanoke Times | Warren Buffett continues to add to his newspaper empire after Berkshire Hathaway bought The Roanake Times for an undisclosed fee.
CNN MONEY
American Realty to Buy Portfolio From GE Capital | American Realty Capital Properties has agreed to buy a portfolio of 471 lease properties from GE Capital for $807 million in a bid to diversify its revenues, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Encore Buys Stake in Cabot Credit for $200 Million | The American debt management company Encore Capital Group has agreed to buy a majority stake in Cabot Credit Management for around $200 million to break into the British debt purchasing market. 
FINANCIAL TIMES
British Engineering Company Confirms Bid for Medical Unit | The British engineering company Smiths Group has received an approach for its medical unit that could be worth up to $3 billion.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
UBS Raises Banker Pay to Match Competitors | The Swiss bank UBS plans to increase the salaries of its investment bankers to match those at rival banks even as it cut around 10,000 jobs to bolster its profitability.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fewer Bonuses for Bankers in Britain | One in three bankers in London walked away empty-handed from the last bonus round, a survey by the recruitment firm Morgan McKinley showed.
DealBook »
Succession Carousel at General Electric | The potential exit of GE Capital's chief shifts the spotlight onto succession for his boss, Jeffrey Immelt.
DealBook »
Goldman Sachs Scores Big in Health Care Deal | Despite failing to put together three potential health care deals in recent months, Goldman Sachs scored a major payday after helping to arrange Valeant Pharmaceuticals' $8.7 billion acquisition of Bausch & Lomb. 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bond Market Movements Puts Focus on Fed | Analysts are divided over whether rising interest rates on long-term mortgages and Treasury bills are a sign that the credit bubble is bursting or that the United States economy is recovering.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Morgan Stanley Makes Trades in Shrinking Derivatives Unit | Morgan Stanley bought credit positions with a notional value of more than $50 billion over the last three years, despite plans to shrink its derivatives business.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Vatican's Top Banker Faces Tough Challenges | Ernst von Freyberg will need a lot of strength as he sets out to rescue the scandal-torn reputation of the Institute for the Works of Religion, as the Vatican's bank is formally known.
FINANCIAL TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Santander Sells Half of Asset Management Arm to Investment Firms | Banco Santander said on Thursday that it had sold a 50 percent stake in its asset-management arm to two investment firms, Warburg Pincus and General Atlantic, as the bank continues to raise money to bolster its balance sheet.
DealBook »
Cerberus's Share Offer for Seibu Holdings Set to Close | Cerberus Capital Management's offer to buy shares in the Japanese rail and hotel operator Seibu Holdings closes on Friday, according to Bloomberg News. 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
American Private Equity Firms Circling Indian Tech Firm | The American private equity giants Carlyle Group and Blackstone Group are planning bids to buy Hewlett Packard's $1 billion stake in the Indian technology services company MphasiS.
REUTERS
Warburg Pincus Sells Stake in Indian Electronics Firm | Warburg Pincus has sold its 8.4 percent stake in the Indian electronics company Havells India to European private equity firm Vontobel.
ECONOMIC TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS »
Sony Chief Warns Against Breakup | Sony's chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, has defended the Japanese company's plan to keep its electronics and entertainment units under one roof after coming under pressure to break up the operations.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sony Said to Hire Bankers Over Breakup Plan | Sony has hired Morgan Stanley and Citigroup to help consider the breakup plan put forward by the U.S. hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, according to Bloomberg News. 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Top Hedge Fund Managers Control Lion's Share of Capital | The hedge fund industry's top 100 largest fund managers control more than 60 percent of capital allocated to the sector, according to the data provider Preqin.
HERE IS THE CITY
Former Goldman Executive Opens New Firm | A former Goldman Sachs executive, Fred Eckert, has opened a new hedge fund after his last firm went bankrupt - and after he spent two months in a coma during the financial crisis.
REUTERS
Former SAC Capital Trader Plans New Hedge Fund | Miaodan Wu, a former manager at the hedge fund SAC Capital, is preparing to start his own hedge fund in Hong Kong to bet on price swings in financial securities, according to Thomson Reuters.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
British Politician Calls for Restraint in R.B.S. Share Sale | The British business secretary, Vince Cable, believes that the prospective share sale of the partly nationalized Royal Bank of Scotland should not be rushed, as the firm says the offering could start next year.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Awaiting a Big Payday Ahead of Partnership Assurance I.P.O. | Top executives at the British financial services firm Partnership Assurance and bankers at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley could stand to earn millions of dollars if the firm's I.P.O. is successful in London.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Royal Mail Faces Big Pension Charge Ahead of Offering | The Royal Mail Group of Britain faces an extra $450 million yearly pension charge ahead of its proposed initial public offering.
FINANCIAL NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
SoftBank Capital Raises $53 Million for N.Y. Fund | SoftBank Capital has raised a $53 million fund targeted at backing early-stage start-ups in New York, according to AllThingsD. 
ALLTHINGSD
Tumblr Adds Advertising to Web Dashboard | Less than a month after being acquired by Yahoo, the micro-blogging company Tumblr has added brand advertisements to its web dashboard.
TECHCRUNCH
Lars Dalgaard Joins Andreessen Horowitz | Lars Dalgaard, the founder of SuccessFactors who sold the business to SAP for $3.5 billion, has joined the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz as a general partner.
FORTUNE
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Reducing the Corporate Tax Rate Could Stabilize Banks | If Congress reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 25 percent, as many have suggested, it could help reduce systemic risk in the banking industry, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column.
DealBook »
A.I.G. Ends Suit Against New York Fed Over Losses | The American International Group has dropped a case against the Federal Reserve Bank of New York over whether the insurer retained the right to sue over losses on residential mortgage-backed securities after its bailout in 2008.
REUTERS
Head of C.F.T.C. Faces Questions over E-Mail Use | Gary Gensler, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is facing scrutiny from Congress over using his person e-mail for work connected to the collapse of MF Global.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Former British Politician Criticizes Financial Transaction Tax | Nigel Lawson, the former British chancellor of the Exchequer, said the proposed European financial transaction tax would drive business from London to New York.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bitcoin Exchange Tightens Verification Procedures | Mt. Gox, the world's largest Bitcoin exchange, has announced new verification procedures to avoid money laundering and other illegal activities. 
FORBES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); MILITARY TRAINING (86%); COMPUTER MAKERS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (61%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: DELL INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (91%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%)

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); LYG (NYSE) (91%); LLOY (LSE) (91%); BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (89%); CARL ICAHN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1020 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With: Author and Filmmaker Vivek Bald

BYLINE: JENNIFER CHOWDHURY


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Bald on his recent book &#8220;Bengali Harlem and the Lost Histories of South Asian America&#8221; and his plans to turn it into a documentary. 

 BODY:
The filmmaker and author Vivek Bald's book "Bengali Harlem and the Lost Histories of South Asian America" created a buzz within the South Asian-American community when it was released in November. Mr. Bald documents the histories of seldom-acknowledged groups of early South Asian migrants to the United States, like Muslim silk and cotton traders from West Bengal in the 1880s and Indian sailors who deserted British steamships in the early 20th century. They settled in New Orleans, Harlem in New York and New Jersey and formed strong community bonds with African-American and Hispanic communities.
In an e-mail interview with India Ink, Mr. Bald discussed his research and his plans for a documentary related to his book. 
 Q. 
What prompted your research for this book?
 A. 
This project grew from the story of just one person: Habib Ullah, who was an ex-seaman from Noakhali in present-day Bangladesh and the father of the East Harlem actor, comedian and playwright Alaudin Ullah. Alaudin and I met back in the 1990s, when I was working independently on my documentary films and he was doing stand-up comedy. Alaudin started telling me his father's story and I was completely amazed.
Habib had come to New York in the 1920s, lived for a while on the Lower East Side, then settled in East Harlem in the late 1930s. In Harlem, he married a Puerto Rican woman who was also a recent immigrant to New York, and they had two children (Alaudin's older half siblings). Habib worked as a dishwasher and line cook in restaurants all over the city, opened his own restaurant in Midtown for a short while in the 1940s, and lived almost all of his adult life, more than 40 years, in Spanish Harlem.
The reason this was such a remarkable story was the fact that for most of this time, the U.S. had put in place very severe anti-Asian immigration laws that kept almost all people from the subcontinent from even setting foot in the United States. South Asian-American history had a 40 to 50-year gap that stretched from the time these laws were put in place in 1917 until the moment South Asian immigration was opened back up again (mostly to professionals) in 1965. But Habib Ullah had entered the U.S. and lived out most of his life here during this period.
Alaudin's father was in fact part of a much larger history of South Asian Muslim men, predominantly from East Bengal but also from Punjab and the Northwest Frontier, who labored under indenture-like conditions on British steamships and who began jumping ship in U.S. ports in significant numbers during World War I in order to access factory and restaurant jobs onshore.
 Q. 
How did the Bengali Muslims you uncovered view themselves and their interracial families?
 A. 
This is a difficult question to answer, since most of the Bengali Muslim immigrants who I write about in the book are long deceased. What I had to make sense of were archival documents and in just a handful of cases, interviews with the children of these migrants, who are now in their 60s and 70s.
I was able to determine that the marriages, like any sampling of marriages you might take, were really varied in their dynamics. There were some that only lasted a couple of years and may have been just for convenience. There were others that seem to have begun as marriages of convenience but grew into deep and long-lasting relationships. There were others that began with husband and wife getting to know each other through daily interactions in their neighborhoods or apartment buildings, falling in love, getting married, etc. And there is evidence that some of the men maintained families both in the U.S. and in their home villages on the subcontinent.
But one thing that was clear was the role that U.S. women of color played in anchoring and maintaining both the peddler and maritime networks. As boarding housekeepers, as wives, as allies, as people with local networks in cities like New Orleans, New York and Detroit, Creole, African-American, and Puerto Rican women provided the knowledge and labor that gave South Asian peddler and maritime networks stability. It was because of them that so many South Asian men were able to cycle in and out of the United States in this era, to find work and to build lives.
 Q. 
Can you please explain the disconnect between the early South Asian immigrants and the communities that exist today?
 A. 
One thing that was clear to me when I first moved to New York City in the late 1980s was the stark class division in the South Asian communities here. Part of the community had come to the U.S. in the wake of the 1965 Immigration Act. They were beneficiaries of that act's preferences for certain categories of immigrants - engineers, doctors and other professionals - and by the late 1980s they were already quite settled and prosperous.
But there were also seemingly newer South Asian communities forming in the late '80s and early '90s - predominantly young men from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Punjab in India who were from less-privileged backgrounds and who were entering into the city's service economy as cab drivers, restaurant workers, construction workers. It was the more prosperous sector of South Asians, the post-1965 professionals, who had the means to represent the community as a whole, so it was their image that came to dominate the image of South Asian-Americans.
The stories of more recent working-class immigrants were obscured by that image. So my first film, "Taxi-vala," was an attempt to start to redress that in some small way - to broaden the picture of South Asian America in a way that included and accounted for the experiences of working-class immigrants.
"Bengali Harlem" in a sense continues that project, but now historically. The book looks back all the way to the 1880s in order to challenge the idea that working-class South Asian Muslims are "recent immigrants" - that they have a long, continuous history in the United States; they have been part of the daily life of cities like New York, New Orleans and Detroit for over 100 years. This is what the archival research clearly shows. By comparison, the post-'65 professionals are the relative newcomers.
 Q. 
With the release of your book, what kind of an impact are you seeing within today's South Asian-American community?
 A. 
In just the short time that the book has been out, it has been embraced really widely. I've been hearing from academics, immigration activists, Bangladeshi-American high school and college students, older Bangladeshi-Americans who were often supported and sponsored by the earlier immigrants about whom I write and from the descendants of Bengali-African American and Bengali-Puerto Rican intermarriages in New Orleans, New York and Detroit.
What is most exciting, though, is just how many people are coming forward with their own family stories, including descendants of some of the earliest migrants. So, as an extension of the book, I have been building out an online oral history project that currently resides atbengaliharlem.com, where the children and descendants of South Asian peddlers and ex-seamen will be adding their own posts and interviews, and family photographs.
 Q. 
You are working on a documentary. How will it be different from the book?
 A. 
 The documentary will be more personal in its focus. At its core will be Alaudin Ullah and his search to find out more about his father. Alaudin grew up in Spanish Harlem in the 1970s at a time when the interracial community of Bengali Muslim men and Puerto Rican and African American women that had reached its height in the 1940s and '50s was starting to dissipate and disappear.
At the same time, Alaudin's search will be intertwined with my own search for answers about the lost history of which Habib Ullah was a part. In these sections of the film, I'll draw on some of the research that went into the book, and move outward in widening circles to interview some of the children of other Bengali ex-seamen who settled in the Bronx, Staten Island, New Jersey and as far away as Detroit.
Visually, the film will explore the cityscape of Harlem and New York City in the 1930s-50s, and it will have a soundtrack by the jazz musician and composer Vijay Iyer. So the documentary will work on different levels - it will be a film about Alaudin's family, about Harlem and New York City, and about a lost history of South Asian Muslims in America that extends across many other families and cities.
 (This interview has been edited and condensed.) 

        
Meet the Upwardly Mobile Middle-Class Indian
        
New American Bill Threatens Indian Outsourcing Companies
        
In Britain, the 'Enemy' Was Just Like Me
        
Portraits From the Kochi Biennale: Video Artist Angelica Mesiti
        
In Bangladesh, Stranded on the Borders of Two Bengals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); WORLD WAR I (60%); COTTON MARKETS (56%) Harlem (Manhattan, NY); Immigration and Emigration; India; Iyer, Vijay; Muslim-Americans; Vivek Bald

COMPANY: INDIA INK (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: Iyer, Vijay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PUNJAB, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDIA (79%) Harlem (Manhattan, NY); India

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1021 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
101 Cookbooks: Tips on using edible flowers in cooking, just in time for summer. - Melissa Clark
: Beers to sip in the summer months - and some open-air places where the sipping can happen. - Jeff Gordinier 
: Are the new American vermouths vermouth at all? - Robert Simonson
The Washington Post: The town that pork built (Smithfield, Va.) reflects on the sale of its mainstay company to a Chinese concern. - Maria Newman
: A digest of the good, the bad and the probably fine in food additives, assessed and compiled by this consumer advocacy group in Washington. It recently downgraded its assessment of the sweetener sucralose to "caution," citing new research that raises potential health concern. - Michael Moss
: No question: chefs in Los Angeles have become as high profile as the people they cook for. The Reporter presents its first list of the top 20 chefs in town. - Julia Moskin
Insatiable Critic: Cherry, the subterranean restaurant adjacent to the Dream Hotel in Chelsea, may look like a Victorian boudoir, but the chef Andy Choi is turning out heavenly tuna tarts, blackened skates, shrimp amandines and shrimp tartares, in the opinion of Gael Greene. - Glenn Collins 
: Why the new CBS reality food show, "The American Baking Competition," may well be worth watching. - Melissa Clark
The Washington City Paper: With Congress in recess, and so many people away for the summer, a writer wonders why it's still so hard to get a table at dinner in the nation's capital. The answer may have to do with Washington's population growth. - Maria Newman
Smitten Kitchen: It's summertime (well, almost) and you know you want what Ina Garten would want: lobster and potato salad. Preferably at a picnic table, or maybe on a beach. ... - Jeff Gordinier 
Women's Wear Daily: ... And, hey, if you happen to find yourself in Dubai, you can now get a Maine lobster roll at the Vogue Café. - Jeff Gordinier 
: The art of cold beet soup, with horseradish yogurt. - Julia Moskin
: After the $4.7 billion purchase of Smithfield Foods by Shuanghui International in China, the American company says it will continue to supply pork to McDonald's for McRibs and insists it will keep its promise to animal-rights groups to eliminate the use of confining crates by 2017. - Glenn Collins
SF Weekly: Officials in Marin County, Calif., really don't want people to drink soda. - Jeff Gordinier 
The Economist: Yes, China's poisonous rice, its ginger laced with pesticide and its rat meat labeled lamb have alarmed that nation's diners. But multiple scandals involving fresh and powdered milk have sent increasingly desperate consumers to Danone, Nestlé and other foreign dairy giants that are moving into the Chinese milk-product void. - Glenn Collins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%); FAST FOOD (75%); MILK (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (75%); FOOD ADDITIVES (75%); RODENTS (74%); FOOD LABELING (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (68%); FASHION & APPAREL (67%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (65%); PESTICIDES (60%); POPULATION SIZE (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (52%); NESTLE SA (50%); DANONE SA (FRANCE) (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); SFD (NYSE) (52%); NESN (SWX) (50%); DNN (BIT) (50%); BN (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (52%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (52%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (52%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (91%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1022 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Kissing Away the Corporate Tax

BYLINE: EDUARDO PORTER


HIGHLIGHT: Reducing corporate taxes can be offset by raising the tax rates on dividends, and the tax system can be made more progressive in the process. 

 BODY:
My column on Wednesday startled some readers. Was I proposing to do away with corporate taxes simply because globalization is making it easier for multinational companies to avoid them? Should we really just roll over and accept defeat?
Well, other advanced nations seem on their way to doing exactly that. 
They have found a way of reducing corporate tax rates that improves economic efficiency, lowers the cost of capital for their companies and may even increase the progressivity of their tax system: offsetting those lower corporate rates with higher tax rates on the income that companies provide to their shareholders. 
Since 2000, the top corporate tax rate in Britain has fallen to 23 percent, from 30 percent; in France it has receded to 34.4 percent, from 37.8 percent, and in Denmark it has declined to 25 percent, from 32 percent, according to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
Many of these countries have compensated for lowering the corporate rates by taxing dividends more. Over the same period, the dividend tax rate rose to 30.6 percent in Britain, from 25 percent; in France, it went to 44 percent from 40.8 percent, and in Denmark it rose to 42 percent from 40 percent. Most industrial countries have also eliminated exemptions to prevent double taxation of dividends. 
The United States has rowed in the opposite direction. Companies complain, rightly, that the corporate tax rate in the United States is too high compared to those of its peers: 39.1 percent, combining federal and state taxes - virtually the same as it was 13 years ago. But they rarely mention that the tax on profits flowing to shareholders has fallen drastically. 
Even after the New Year's budget deal raised taxes on the highest earners, the 20 percent top rate for dividends and long-term capital gains remains much lower than in the 1990s - when the top capital gains tax was 28 percent, and dividends were taxed as ordinary income.
A paper published a couple of years ago by Rosanne Altshuler of Rutgers, Benjamin H. Harris of the Brookings Institution and Eric Toder of the Tax Policy Center suggested that the American mix is particularly inefficient. 
Because American corporate tax mostly falls on domestic profits (foreign profits retained abroad pay no tax), it raises the cost of domestic investment and encourages companies to invest abroad. It also encourages them to seek out low-tax havens around the world to park their profits. And it encourages companies to shed their corporate status to avoid the tax altogether.
The Altshuler-Harris-Toder paper suggests that reducing the corporate tax rate and increasing taxes on dividends and capital gains would be a much more efficient way to raise money. 
Their calculation - which is only rough because it assumes no change in the behavior of companies or their shareholders - suggests that raising the top tax on long-term capital gains to 28 percent and taxing dividends as ordinary income (which faced a top rate of 35 percent at the time of the study) would raise enough money to pay for a cut in the federal corporate tax rate from 35 to 26 percent.
But the most interesting bit of the study is their finding that these changes would make the tax structure more progressive - increasing the tax burden on Americans with the highest incomes. That's because the rich would bear the brunt of the increase in the dividend and capital gains tax. 
Even assuming that shareholders bear the entire burden of corporate taxation - an assumption that is being questioned in the economic literature - the change suggested by the economists would lower the average federal tax rate of everybody except the top 1 percent of Americans, who would suffer a tax increase of 1 percent.
Under a different assumption - that corporate taxes are mostly paid by workers because of the impact of the tax on investment, jobs and wages - the progressivity would be steeper. In particular, those in the top percentile of income would see their taxes rise by 1.8 percent. 
So getting rid of corporate taxes - or at least reducing them substantially - may not be such a bad idea. The tax burden would just have to be shifted from the companies to their owners. 

        
Some Big Corporations Don't Pay Taxes, Either
        
The Merits of a Corporate Tax Overhaul
        
Cutting the Corporate Tax Rate Is No Economic Panacea
        
Lean on Me: Trust and Friendship Around the World
        
Untangling What Companies Pay in Taxes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CORPORATE TAX (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%) Capital Gains Tax; Corporate Taxes; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; United States

ORGANIZATION: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (72%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1023 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Buffett's Energy Gamble in Las Vegas

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER SWANN


HIGHLIGHT: Warren Buffett&#8217;s $5.6 billion bet on NV Energy in Nevada suggests he is coming up short on decent ways to deploy his cash. 

 BODY:
Warren Buffett needs luck for his Las Vegas gamble to pay off. Berkshire Hathaway's $5.6 billion bet on NV Energy suggests the billionaire investor is coming up short on decent ways to deploy his cash. With electrical utility mergers offering meager synergies thanks to the pounds of flesh demanded by regulators, Berkshire will struggle even to cover its cost of capital. 
True, the Nevada power company that Mr. Buffett has just purchased is a steady cash cow. Earnings before interest and taxes have rebounded a healthy 65 percent since the gloom of 2008, to about $785 million in 2012. The deal will also extend the geographical spread of Berkshire's MidAmerican Energy. In addition, NV has a strong base of solar production, which MidAmerican has used to generate strong returns in the past.
Yet barring an unexpected boom in the Nevada economy, the growth outlook for NV is bland. Operating profit is forecast to remain almost flat as far out as 2016, according to estimates compiled by Thomson Reuters. And Berkshire seems to expect only trivial synergies.
Merging utilities are often falsely modest about cost savings - fearing that regulators will demand they pass gains on to consumers in the form of cheaper electricity. In this case, with only modest overlap in operations, the humility appears justified.
While Duke Energy aimed for synergies of around 6 percent of revenue through its $13.7 billion purchase of Progress Energy in 2011, MidAmerican would be lucky to get 3 percent. Even this upbeat assumption would translate into just around $90 million of savings on forecast revenue of $3 billion in 2013.
Taxed at around 34 percent, that would deliver a return on the acquisition of just 6 percent - below the roughly 9 percent cost of capital that Buffett would normally aim to clear.
MidAmerican could pile on debt to bolster equity returns. The company has been deleveraging in recent years, trimming long-term debt to $4.7 billion from $5.3 billion since 2008 as well as adding more than $200 million to cash. That leaves room for more borrowing.
But even with a little capital structure hocus-pocus, it's hard to see the deal vaulting MidAmerican's cost of capital. With some $44 billion in cash on Berkshire's balance sheet, and 10-year Treasuries yielding just 2 percent, Buffett is under pressure to put money to work. This deal just shows how big a challenge that is, even for investment sages.
 Christopher Swann is a columnist at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MERGERS (77%); EBITDA (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%) Breakingviews; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%); NV ENERGY INC (85%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (54%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%); NVE (NYSE) (85%); DUK (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (85%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1024 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Little Cause for Inflation Worries

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The price index favored by the Federal Reserve, focusing on so-called &#8220;core inflation,&#8221; shows its lowest year-over-year rise since the government started keeping track more than five decades ago. 

 BODY:
Periodically I am asked whether we should worry about inflation, given how much money the Federal Reserve has pumped into the economy. Based on the Bureau of Economic Analysis data released Friday morning, this answer is still emphatically no. 
The personal consumption expenditures, or P.C.E., price index, which the Fed has said it prefers to other measures of inflation, fell from March to April by 0.25 percent. On a year-over-year basis, it was up by just 0.74 percent. Those figures are quite low by historical standards, and helped push consumer spending up. (Measured in nominal terms, consumer spending fell slightly in April. After adjusting for inflation, it rose.) 
When looking at price changes, a lot of economists like to strip out food and energy, since costs in those spending categories can be volatile. Instead they focus on so-called "core inflation." On a monthly basis, core inflation was flat. But year over year, this core index grew just 1.05 percent, which is the lowest pace since the government started keeping track more than five decades ago.
Low inflation may be one reason that consumers have proven so resilient in recent months (in addition to the lift they're getting from rising home prices). A measure of consumer sentiment released Friday by the University of Michigan surged in May, and is at its highest level since July 2007. 

        
The Gorilla and the Maginot Line
        
The Impact (if Any) of the Fed's Dual Mandate
        
Bernanke: By Unemployment, Not So Good
        
Lessons on Fiscal Policy Since the Recession
        
Hawks and Doves at the Fed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INFLATION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOME PRICES (72%) Consumer Behavior; Federal Reserve System; Inflation (Economics); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1025 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Money Market Fund Overhaul Is Early Test for Dodd-Frank

BYLINE: DAVID ZARING


HIGHLIGHT: The success or failure of efforts to overhaul the money market fund industry depends in large part on how much power can be exerted by a regulatory body created under Dodd-Frank, the author writes. 

 BODY:
 David Zaring is assistant professor of legal studies at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Efforts to overhaul money market funds has posed not just a challenge to the Securities and Exchange Commission, which will finally vote on an overhaul package on June 5, but also to its new overseer, the supercommittee of agencies known as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC. 
The outcome of these efforts will tell us just how much on an overseer this supercommittee will be, which in turn will tell us something about how much the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, which created FSOC, has, in fact, changed Wall Street. 
A lot of blame for the depth of the financial panic in September 2008 can reasonably be laid at the door of the money market funds. The collapse of the Reserve Primary Fund - it broke the buck, which money market funds were designed and regulated to never do, on Sept. 16 of that year - led to the collapse of the entire asset class. Because money market funds were large purchasers of the commercial paper corporate America uses to finance its operations, that market ground to a halt as well, creating serious problems for the real economy. 
In short order, the Federal Reserve found an obscure Depression-era statute (the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, if you're keeping score at home), with an emergency fund attached to it, and used both to bail out the money market funds. It was good news for the economy, but a real stretch of the legal authority of the Fed. The S.E.C., which had nominally regulated money market funds, was entirely circumvented, and the Gold Reserve Act had never been used to bail out a domestic financial intermediary before.
Accordingly, Mary L. Schapiro, then the S.E.C. chairwoman, made the reregulation of money market funds one of her top priorities. She urged her agency to pass a rule that would let the funds have a floating net asset value, or N.A.V., that would move up or down from $1, reflecting the actual market value of the funds' underlying portfolio holdings. Many financial experts and academics believe that a floating value would be refreshingly realistic. But the fund industry has opposed it vigorously, arguing that floating value funds would be difficult to sell to consumers. 
The industry won over enough ears on the S.E.C. to prevent the agency from adopting Ms. Schapiro's approach. So she and the then Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, turned to the Financial Stability Oversight Council to try to force the agency's hand. The question is how, and whether it would be willing, to do that sort of forcing. 
The Financial Stability Oversight Council has the power, under Section 120 of Dodd-Frank, to review and make recommendations related to a member agency's regulation of a systemically significant sector of the financial system. Ms. Schapiro and Mr. Geithner successfully persuaded it to urge the S.E.C. to adopt a floating net asset value rule or to require money market funds to hold extra capital to deal with shocks. 
But the problem with the council's Section 120 powers is that they are not paired with the ability to force a member agency to act. If the S.E.C. does not want to regulate money market funds in the way the the council suggests, it need not do so. Under Section 120, it only has to provide an explanation to the council as to why it is not adhering to the council's recommendation. 
Moreover, the revised proposal before the commission would only introduce a floating N.A.V. for funds held by corporations and institutional investors, but not consumers, which arguably does not go as far as the Financial Stability Oversight Council,, and certainly some outside observers, would like. 
Will that be enough for the council? Probably, but that is because it does not have many alternatives. The council's stick lies in its Section 113 powers. Under that section, the body has the ability to regulate systemically important financial institutions and to designate such institutions, if they are not already banks, to be supervised by the Fed. It can make such a designation if it determines that material financial distress at the company or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness or mix of activities of the company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. 
The council has said, however, that it will only make such designations for companies that hold at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets. 
So this is the final card that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has to play. If its recommendations on money market funds are ignored, it could designate the largest of those funds as systemically important and turn over the regulation of those institutions to the Fed. There might even be some advantages to doing so; while the S.E.C.'s regulatory rules have met with little success in the courts, the Fed has a much better record and reputation. 
That of course, would be a turf battle that the S.E.C. would hate to lose, but it is also a drastic step. Will the council's powers force the hand of the S.E.C.? Answering that question will tell us something about whether the jury-rigged committee of agencies that Dodd-Frank created to keep an eye on the safety and soundness of the financial system is more than some of its parts, or instead dependent upon those parts.

        
In Effort to Curb Money Market Funds, a Plan B Is Considered
        
Time for a Bold Choice for S.E.C. Head

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); US DODD FRANK ACT (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); WRITERS (79%); LEGAL EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Financial Stability Oversight Council; Geithner, Timothy F; Money Market Accounts; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Schapiro, Mary L; Securities and Exchange Commission; Treasury Department; Another View; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: Financial Stability Oversight Council; Securities and Exchange Commission; Treasury Department

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (74%) Geithner, Timothy F; Schapiro, Mary L

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1026 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Brazilian Cement Producer Plans $4.8 Billion I.P.O.

BYLINE: DAN HORCH


HIGHLIGHT: Brazil&#8217;s largest cement producer, Votorantim Cimentos, is planning to raise as much as $4.8 billion, in what would be one of the largest initial public offerings worldwide this year. 

 BODY:
SÃO PAULO, Brazil - Brazil's largest cement producer, Votorantim Cimentos, is planning to raise as much as $4.8 billion in what would be one of the largest initial public offerings worldwide this year. 
The move is a positive sign for Brazil as the country's government and private sector have been trying toencourage more financing through the public markets.
The company filed a preliminary prospectus on Friday, saying it would offer up to 540 million units, priced at 16 to 19 reais a share. If all the units were sold at the maximum price, the company would raise 10.26 billion reais, or $4.8 billion.
After a weak 2012, in which only three Brazilian companies held I.P.O.'s, the country's capital markets are recovering. Six public offerings have been held in Brazil in 2013. According to Thomson Reuters, the largest global I.P.O. was also in Brazil, when the insurance giant BB Seguridade raised $5.74 billion at the end of April. If successful, Votorantim Cimentos's public offering would rank as the second-largest globally so far this year.
Votorantim Cimentos's units will be offered on both the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange in São Paulo and on the New York Stock Exchange, with each unit representing one common share and two preferred shares. The pricing will be announced June 19 and trading should begin June 20.
Itaú BBA, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Securities, Credit Suisse, BTG Pactual, HSBC, Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Banco Bradesco BBI, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Banco do Brasil and Banco Votorantim are underwriting the offering.
According to the prospectus filed with the S.E.C., the company will use 45 percent of the money raised to finance its growth and potential acquisitions, in Brazil and abroad.
Votorantim Cimentos has operations in 20 countries, including the United States, but the vast majority of its business is in Brazil, whose booming real estate and construction sectors have benefited the company.
This success has come despite economic weakness in Brazil, where inflation is forecast at nearly 6 percent and the economy only grew at a 2.2 percent pace in the first quarter.
But after the drought of public offerings in 2012, investor appetite appears strong for Brazilian companies, especially ones that have dominant positions in relatively strong sectors of the economy.
Votorantim Cimentos will be the only Brazilian cement producer traded on the stock market, so its shares may prove attractive to investors eager to participate in the sector. The company is a subsidiary of Votorantim Industrial, one of Brazil's largest conglomerates, which had $11.5 billion in revenue last year. 
Votorantim Industrial's other operations include steel and other metals, cellulose, agriculture, energy, and even finance, but Votorantim Cimentos is one of the crown jewels, responsible for $4.7 billion in revenue.
Like many Latin American companies, Votorantim Industrial is controlled by its founding family. Its chairman, Antônio Ermírio de Moraes, is worth an estimated $12.7 billion. (That makes him the 74th richest person in the world and the third richest in Brazil, according to Forbes magazine.)
Even after this I.P.O., Votorantim Industrial and Mr. Ermírio de Moraes should continue to own enough shares to maintain control of Votorantim Cimentos.

        
Brazil Insurer Prices Biggest I.P.O. of the Year
        
Nasdaq Is Fined $10 Million Over Mishandled Facebook Public Offering

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CEMENT MFG (94%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMON STOCK (75%); INSURANCE (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (72%); BONDS (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (70%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); DROUGHT (60%) BM&F Bovespa; Brazil; Cement; Initial Public Offerings; Stocks and Bonds; Votorantim Cimentos; Basic Materials; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS LTDA (95%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANCO BRADESCO SA (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); BANCO ITAU BBA SA (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BANCO DO BRASIL SA (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BM&F Bovespa

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BBDC3 (BOVESPA) (90%); BBD (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); BBAS3 (BOVESPA) (54%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1027 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The health care law is expected to produce a sharp increase in self-employment next year because of access to insurance on the individual market, according to a new report. 

 BODY:
The Affordable Care Act is expected to produce a sharp increase in entrepreneurship next year, according to a new report from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Urban Institute and Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute. The number of self-employed people is expected to rise by 1.5 million - a relative increase of more than 11 percent - as a direct result of the health care overhaul. 
One major barrier to entrepreneurship in the United States - beside the usual risks involved with starting a company - is that it has been difficult to get health insurance on the individual market. Those who do end up founding or joining a start-up are often able to do so because they have a spouse with employer-sponsored insurance, or because they are keeping a day job with a bigger company. (This was the case, for example, for most of the people involved with Leap2, a Kansas City start-up that I profiled last fall.)
Economists have looked at whether this insurance-related job lock is deterring self-employment and the formation of new businesses, and the data suggest it is. A Journal of Health Economics paper, for example, found that business ownership rates jumped sharply from just under age 65 to just over age 65, when people become newly eligible for Medicare. Using Current Population Survey data, the same paper also found that wage and salary workers are more likely to start businesses from one year to the next if they have a spouse with employer-based insurance. 
A working paper from the Upjohn Institute looked at a change in the law in New Jersey that expanded access to individual health insurance. It found that the law seemed to increase self-employment, particularly among "unmarried, older, and observably less-healthy individuals."
The report released Friday applies those findings to a model of what will happen in 2014, based on the Affordable Care Act's provisions for "universal availability of non-group coverage, the financial assistance available for it, and other related market reforms." The authors also adjusted their numbers depending on the access that residents of various states already have to individual health insurance. (Vermont, for example, already has a statute that allows the self-employed to obtain small group coverage.) Over all, they found, the ranks of the self-employed are likely to rise 11.5 percent, from about 13.1 million to 14.6 million. A table with their state-by-state estimates is below.
By the way, the paper does not mention this, but the same forces that will make it easier for workers to become self-employed may also make it easier for workers to retire early. I have heard anecdotally about people in their late 50s or early 60s who would like to retire but can't do so because they're basically uninsurable (for now) on the individual market; I wonder if we'll notice a wave of retirements in this age group come 2014.

        
Massachusetts Employees Will Keep Their Health Plans
        
Patterns of Changes in Health Insurance
        
Health Coverage Worthy of a Senator
        
Hammurabi's Code and U.S. Health Care
        
Small Companies and the Affordable Care Act

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (94%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); MEDICARE (70%) Entrepreneurship; Freelancing, Self-Employment and Independent Contracting; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Johnson, Robert Wood, Foundation; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Start-ups; United States Economy; Urban Institute

ORGANIZATION: Johnson, Robert Wood, Foundation; Urban Institute

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1028 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Court Revives Guy Hands's Lawsuit Against Citigroup in EMI Sale

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A federal appeals court vacated a 2011 jury verdict clearing Citigroup of any wrongdoing over its role in the sale of EMI to Guy Hands&#8217;s private equity firm, Terra Firma Capital Partners, ruling that the trial court judge, Jed S. Rakoff, gave improper jury instructions. 

 BODY:
The British financier Guy Hands will have another chance to try to prove his claim that he was defrauded by his longtime bankers at Citigroup.
A federal appeals court on Friday ordered a new trial in the legal fight between Mr. Hands and Citigroup over the buyout of the music company EMI.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan vacated a 2011 jury verdict that cleared Citigroup of any wrongdoing in its role in EMI's sale to Mr. Hands's private equity firm, Terra Firma Capital Partners. It ruled that improper jury instructions from the trial court judge required a reversal. 
Mr. Hands had accused the bank of defrauding him during its handling of an auction of EMI. He said that a Citigroup investment banker lied to him about another bidder, which tricked him into paying $6.8 billion for EMI at the market peak in August 2007. After the financial crisis struck and the music industry slumped, Mr. Hands lost billions of dollars on the investment.
He sued Citigroup in federal court, seeking $8.3 billion in damages. The bank said it had done nothing wrong and accused Mr. Hands of having a bad case of buyer's remorse.
After a three-week trial in 2010, the jury awarded nothing to Mr. Hands. Citigroup, which had also provided Mr. Hands with billions of dollars of loans to pay for EMI, ultimately took ownership of the company and sold it off in pieces. The Universal Music Group, a division of Vivendi, bought EMI's recorded-music business, and a Sony-led group acquired EMI's publishing assets.
With EMI seized from Terra Firma and now with new owners, the revived dispute becomes a fight over money. Should Citigroup and Mr. Hands fail to reach a financial settlement, the case will again go to trial before Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who presided over the case. A spokeswoman for Citigroup, Danielle Romero-Apsilos, suggested that was where they were heading.
"We are confident we will again prevail at trial as Citi's conduct in the EMI transaction was entirely proper," Ms. Romero-Apsilos said. "The original verdict made clear that Terra Firma's baseless accusations of fraud were simply an attempt to gain leverage in debt restructuring negotiations."
The reversal of a jury's verdict in a civil dispute is rare, and the federal appeals court said it was loath to overturn the case.
"We are particularly reluctant to overturn a jury verdict when, as here, it appears that both parties have had a fair bite at the proverbial apple," wrote Judge John M. Walker Jr., who wrote the opinion for a unanimous three-judge panel. "The principal actors on both sides provided their version of events, exceptional trial lawyers marshaled and clarified the evidence, and a gifted judge presented the issue to the jury for its evaluation."
Despite the praise for Judge Rakoff, the court said that he erred in his description of English law related to fraudulent misrepresentation, which applied to the case. Judge Rakoff incorrectly told the jury that Terra Firma had the burden of proof in showing that it relied on Citigroup's supposed misrepresentations, when according to English law, the burden fell upon Citigroup to prove that it did not lie.
"The district court's jury instructions were based on an inaccurate understanding of the relevant English law," Judge Walker wrote.
Terra Firma, through its spokesman, Jonathan Doorley, said, "We continue to believe that we have a strong claim, and with the jury instructions now resolved in our favor, we expect to prevail in any subsequent trial."
The decision is a victory for Mr. Hands's star lawyer, David Boies of Boies, Schiller & Flexner, who represented him at trial and argued the appeal. If the case is tried again, Mr. Boies will most likely find himself in a rematch against Citigroup's lawyer, Theodore V. Wells Jr. of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.

        
Court Hears Arguments on Judge's Rejection of S.E.C.-Citigroup Deal
        
Terra Firma Lawsuit Against Citi to Remain in N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (94%); VERDICTS (92%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); JUDGES (90%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); LAWYERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%) Boies Schiller & Flexner; Boies, David; Citigroup Inc; Courts and the Judiciary; Decisions and Verdicts; EMI Group PLC; Great Britain; Hands, Guy; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Rakoff, Jed S; Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd; EMI Group Plc; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Media; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); TERRA FIRMA CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (57%); VIVENDI (54%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Boies Schiller & Flexner; Citigroup Inc; EMI Group Plc; Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); VIV (PAR) (54%); VIV (BIT) (54%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN M WALKER JR (79%) Boies, David; Hands, Guy; Rakoff, Jed S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013



1029 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: A Predictable Decline in Hillary Clinton's Popularity

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The drop in Mrs. Clinton&#8217;s favorability ratings was likely just a matter of time &#8212; and if the Benghazi hearings had not triggered it, something else would have. 

 BODY:
The controversies surrounding the I.R.S.'s targeting of conservative groups and the executive branch's handling of last year's attacks in Benghazi, Libya, have yet to have much impact on President Obama's approval ratings (although some slight decline may be hidden by an improved economic mood). But Mr. Obama's former secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, appears to be have been more affected.
A Quinnipiac University poll released on Friday found Mrs. Clinton's favorability rating declining to 52 percent, from 61 percent in February. The decrease was considerably more modest in a CNN poll released earlier this month, with Mrs. Clinton's favorability rating decreasing to 61 percent from 63 percent in March. Nevertheless, Mrs. Clinton's favorability scores had hovered in the mid-60s for much of the past two years - and those lofty ratings appear to be a thing of the past. 
So, are Americans carefully parsing through the details of the Benghazi attack - and finding Mrs. Clinton more culpable than Mr. Obama?
Probably not. Instead, the decline in her ratings was likely just a matter of time - and if the Benghazi hearings had not triggered it, something else would have.
Here's what I said about Mrs. Clinton's popularity in an article in December - in which I noted that her favorability scores have waxed and waned considerably over the years:
[If] Mrs. Clinton runs for president in 2016, one thing is almost certain: she won't be as popular as she is right now. Recent polls show that about 65 percent of Americans take a favorable view of Mrs. Clinton, while only about 30 percent have a negative one. Those are remarkably high numbers for a politician in an era when many public officials are distrusted or disliked.
But part of the reason for Mrs. Clinton's high numbers is that, as secretary of state, she has remained largely above the partisan fray that characterizes elections and fights over domestic policy.
Over the course of her long career, the public's views of Mrs. Clinton have shifted along with her public role. When she has been actively engaged in the hand-to-hand combat that characterizes election campaigns and battles in Congress, her favorability ratings have taken a hit, only to recover later. ...
The theme is that a politician's favorability ratings are a function, to a large degree, of the extent to which the other political party, and perhaps also the news media, feels as though they have license to criticize her.
It's easy to be popular when nobody is criticizing you - and there was a long period, from the closing stages of the 2008 campaign through most of her tenure as secretary of state, when Republicans had little interest in attacking Mrs. Clinton directly. Now that Republicans have chosen to engage her again, her numbers are coming down. The largest decline in her ratings, as Ed Kilgore noted, has come from Republican voters, with a more modest decline among independents and almost none at all among Democrats. This is what happens when a politician returns to being in the partisan fray after having drifted above it for some time.
But if Mrs. Clinton were to run for president in 2016, Republicans would undoubtedly have found any number of other ways to criticize her - from her policy proposals, to concerns about her age or health, to gaffes that she might make on the campaign trail, to controversies recycled from her tenure as secretary of state.
Mrs. Clinton, if she runs in 2016, is highly unlikely to win by the double-digit margins that some polls have given her over prospective Republican opponents. But the same would have been true regardless of Benghazi. The main circumstances in which a presidential candidate wins by double digits are when that candidate is an incumbent running in a time of exceptional economic growth, or when the other party's incumbent is viewed as having performed terribly. Or, every now and then, the opposing candidate might be viewed as extreme or incompetent, and swing voters will feel as though they have no real choice.
But the opposition generally nominates reasonably good candidates when there is no incumbent running. Much of the incumbent advantage in American politics comes because of the deterrent factor - the opposition party figures that an incumbent will be difficult to beat, and so their stronger candidates wait for a better opportunity. This, however, can be a self-fulfilling prophecy: one of the reasons that incumbents win so often is because they don't often draw strong challengers. When parties nominate candidates against incumbents who have held their seats for many years - as Democrats did in 2006 with their "50-state strategy," or Republicans did in races for the Congress in 2010 - they are rewarded reasonably often.
Mrs. Clinton, to be clear, would not have been an incumbent - but it's possible that Republicans would have erred by giving her the same type of deference that is normally afforded to one. (Republicans like Newt Gingrich had talked about how difficult it might be to beat Mrs. Clinton.) So while the reality is that this decline in her ratings was predictable, Mrs. Clinton could be harmed by losing her perceived "inevitability."
That's also not to say that Mrs. Clinton would be merely an average candidate. Her resume, her experience, her fund-raising abilities and her status as the first prospective female president could all be advantages. But they might amount to her running a couple of points better than a "generic" Democrat and probably not much more than that - rather than her defying the laws of partisan gravity in a deeply divided country.

        
Why Hillary Clinton Would Be Strong in 2016 (It's Not Her Favorability Ratings)
        
Is the Economy Saving Obama's Approval Ratings?
        
Is It Too Early for 2016 Polls?
        
Can Democrats Turn Texas and Arizona Blue by 2016?
        
Marco Rubio: The Electable Conservative?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%) 2016; Benghazi; favorability ratings; Hillary Clinton; polls; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2016; Politics

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); BARACK OBAMA (88%) Clinton, Hillary Rodham

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013



1030 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Week in Review: Skepticism in Washington of American Pig in China

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: Deal Professor says a pork deal may hinge on the risk for uproar. | Records show tension among the Obama administration over British banks. | Sallie Mae will split old loans from new. | Switzerland to allow its banks to disclose hidden client accounts. 

 BODY:
Deal Professor says a pork deal may hinge on the risk for uproar. | Records show tension among the Obama administration over British banks. | Sallie Mae will split old loans from new. | Switzerland to allow its banks to disclose hidden client accounts. | Buyout offer brings China into the orbit of Club Med. | Powerhouse of the uranium enrichment industry seeks a way out. | Entrepreneurs help to build start-ups by the batch.
A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance. 
Mergers & Acquisitions »
 Appeals Court Revives Financier's Suit Against Citigroup | A federal appeals court ordered a new trial in the legal battle between the bank and the British financier Guy Hands over the buyout of the music company EMI. DealBook »
 Deal Professor: Pork Deal May Hinge on Risk for Uproar | Steven M. Davidoff says that a national security review is no picnic given American anxiety about China. DealBook »

        
 Needing Pork, China Is to Buy a U.S. Supplier | If completed, the $4.7 billion deal for Smithfield Foods would be the biggest takeover of an American company by a Chinese concern. DealBook »
 Sallie Mae Will Split Old Loans From New | The move will create a new home for more than $100 billion of student loans amid concerns that graduates hobbled by debt are falling behind on their payments. DealBook »
 Deal Professor: A Hotel Company Is Hobbled by a Deal Struck in Tough Times | In 2009, the Morgans Hotel Group received financing under terms that favored Ronald Burkle; Steven M. Davidoff says that it is now finding it hard to unwind the relationship. DealBook »
 Buyout Offer Brings China Into the Orbit of Club Med | The French resort operator received a $700 million offer led by its two largest shareholders, an investment unit of the French insurer AXA and a Chinese conglomerate called Fosun International. DealBook »
 Powerhouse of the Uranium Enrichment Industry Seeks a Way Out | Urenco, the global leader in its field, wants to sell for reasons of geopolitics, economics and the notion of an energy source that could turn deadly. DealBook »
 Eye Care Company Is Being Sold to Valeant | Bausch & Lomb agreed to sell itself to the Canadian-based company for about $8.7 billion, sidestepping the lengthier process of an initial public offering. DealBook »
Investment Banking »
 CME Group Sanctions Goldman Sachs and Top Wall Street Trader | The investment bank and Glenn Hadden have been fined over a Treasury futures trade in 2008. Mr. Hadden also faces a 10-day suspension. DealBook »
 Wall Street Turns to 'Boot Camps' to Train New Workers | Tens of thousands of students at top business schools and scores of new hires at financial firms take courses on Excel. DealBook »
 The Trade: A Flawed System That Suits the Shareholders Just Fine | Jesse Eisinger of ProPublica says that the recent vote at JPMorgan Chase to preserve Jamie Dimon's dual role as chief executive and chairman suggests that shareholders may be part of the problem. DealBook »
Private Equity »
 Petraeus Back in Spotlight, via Wall St. | Kohlberg Kravis Roberts hired the retired four-star general and former director of the Central Intelligence Agency as chairman of the new KKR Global Institute. DealBook »
Hedge Funds »I.P.O./Offerings »
 Nasdaq Is Fined $10 Million Over Mishandled Facebook Public Offering | The Securities and Exchange Commission said the exchange's executives proceeded with trading although they knew of programming errors. DealBook »
 I.P.O. for Empire State Building Wins Backing of Shareholders | The plan's approval is a big victory for Peter L. Malkin and his son Anthony E. Malkin, the real estate barons who control the landmark tower but are minority owners. DealBook »
Venture Capital »
 Entrepreneurs Help to Build Start-Ups by the Batch | Investors with experience in technology companies are choosing to back multiple projects at one time, with more active roles than those of venture capitalists. DealBook »
Legal/Regulatory »
 Records Show Tension Among Obama Officials Over British Banks | Government documents offer a glimpse into the Obama administration's decision-making as it prepared to take actions against HSBC and Standard Chartered. DealBook »
 Switzerland to Allow Its Banks to Disclose Hidden Client Accounts | The watershed move is intended to help resolve a long-running dispute with the United States over tax evasion. DealBook »

        
 Switzerland Weighs Deal in Tax Cases | Offshore private banking services allowed at least tens of thousands of wealthy Americans to evade federal taxes. DealBook »
Week in Verse »
[Video: Watch on Youtube.]
 'I Crave My Pigmeat' | China's pork deal is a good excuse to celebrate with Blind Boy Fuller, the father of the Piedmont Blues. DealBook »

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); TAKEOVERS (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); MERGERS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (67%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (62%); SECURITIES TRADING (61%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%) Week in Review

COMPANY: FOSUN INTERNATIONAL LTD (84%); AXA (82%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (58%); SLM CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (55%); MORGANS HOTEL GROUP CO (54%); BAUSCH & LOMB INC (52%); CME GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: 0656 (HKSE) (84%); CS (PAR) (82%); AXJ (ASX) (82%); AXA (BIT) (82%); CU (PAR) (58%); SLM (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); SFD (NYSE) (55%); MHGC (NASDAQ) (54%); CME (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332111 IRON & STEEL FORGING (84%); SIC3462 IRON & STEEL FORGING (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (55%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (55%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (55%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RON BURKLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SWITZERLAND (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013



1031 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 3757 words

HEADLINE: Why Can't Canada Win the Stanley Cup?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: No Canadian team has won the N.H.L. championship since 1993. How unlikely is this 20-year drought? And is there anything in the league&#8217;s economics that might explain it? 

 BODY:
The N.H.L.'s conference finals will begin on Saturday, and fans in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Pittsburgh can still dream of a Stanley Cup championship. But this year is an unhappy anniversary for America's northerly neighbor. It is 20 years since the Montreal Canadiens defeated the Los Angeles Kings to win the 1993 Stanley Cup; no Canadian team has won the championship since.
Just how unlikely has Canada's Stanley Cup drought been? And is there anything in the league's economics that might help to explain it?
The answer isn't simple, so let me give you the executive summary before we parse the details. 
First, bad luck is a major component. Even after accounting for the fact that Canadian teams have rarely been among the league's best in recent years, you would still have expected Canada to pick up at least a couple of Stanley Cups at some point.
Second, the N.H.L.'s economic structure changed at an unfavorable time for Canada. During the first half of the 20-year drought, the league allowed teams to spend freely, but Canadian teams were hampered by the weak Canadian dollar. Since 2005, the Canadian dollar has recovered substantially, and Canadian teams are now turning large profits. But they are limited in their capacity to invest those profits in superior players because the league has instituted a hard salary cap.
Third, there is almost certainly a shortage of N.H.L. teams in Canada relative to the demand for hockey there and the revenues that Canada contributes to the league. Teams in nontraditional hockey markets like Raleigh, N.C., Tampa, Fla., and Anaheim, Calif., have won Stanley Cups since 1993, but without doing especially well financially. So have the Colorado Avalanche, who relocated from Quebec City in 1995-96. Had the distribution of N.H.L. teams more closely matched fan interest in the sport across the United States and Canada, Canada would have more teams in the league and - very probably - at least one Stanley Cup championship.
Finally, and related to the excess demand for hockey in Canada, Canadian teams routinely sell out their arenas at high ticket prices - whether or not they are any good. This may reduce their incentive to compete.
The simplest way to conceive of the situation is to assume that each N.H.L. team begins with an equal chance of winning the championship and to estimate the odds of a Canadian team winning the Stanley Cup as a function of the number of Canadian teams in the league.
Eight of the 26 N.H.L. teams, or 31 percent, were from Canada in the 1993-94 season. The percentage fell to 20 (6 of 30 teams) by 2000-1, before increasing to 23 percent after the Atlanta Thrashers moved to Winnipeg in 2011.
If a champion were randomly chosen from all N.H.L. teams active each season, the odds that a Canadian team would have won at least one Stanley Cup since 1993-94 are 99.2 percent. (This period comprises 19 seasons, excluding 2004-5 when the N.H.L. canceled its season because of a labor dispute.) That means the chance of Canada failing to have won a Stanley Cup is just 0.8 percent, yielding odds of about 125-to-1 against.
But it is naïve, of course, to assume that the Stanley Cup champion is chosen randomly. Major League Baseball's Kansas City Royals, for example, aren't merely unlucky to have failed to reach the playoffs in 28 years: they have usually stunk. Perhaps the Canadian N.H.L. teams just haven't been very good either.
At first glance, the difference in competitiveness seems minor. Canadian teams have averaged 35.3 wins and 81.5 points per regular season over this period, compared with 36.7 wins and 84.4 points for the American teams. Canadian teams made the playoffs 54 percent of the time, compared with 56 percent for the United States-based clubs.
However, the Stanley Cup is not normally won by an average team that just sneaks into the playoffs - instead, it usually goes to one of the best teams in the league. Eleven of the 18 Stanley Cup champions since 1993-94 have been seeded No. 1 or No. 2 in their conference. And there has been a lack of elite Canadian teams; only 14 percent of the No. 1 and No. 2 seeds since 1993-94 have been from Canada.
A more exacting way to evaluate the odds is by estimating each team's chance of winning the Stanley Cup as a function of its playoff seed and its regular-season power rating. (Power ratings, in this case, are taken from hockey-reference.com's Simple Ratings System, which accounts for each team's goal differential and strength of schedule during the regular season.) We can accomplish this by means of a logistic regression analysis. The probabilities for each season are recalibrated such that the 16 teams that make the playoffs have exactly a 100 percent chance of winning the Stanley Cup, in total.
In the 1996-97 season, for instance, I estimate that the Canadian teams had just a 2.1 percent chance of winning the Stanley Cup on the basis of their regular-season performance. Three of the six Canadian teams made the playoffs that year - but all as No. 7 or No. 8 seeds, and none of them were much good.
In 15 of the past 19 N.H.L. seasons, in fact, the probability of a Canadian team winning the Stanley Cup, as calculated by this method, was lower than you would get if you drew from among all N.H.L. teams at random. Only twice - the Ottawa Senators in 2005-6, and the Vancouver Canucks in 2010-11 - did a Canadian team enter the playoffs as the best bet to win the Stanley Cup on the basis of regular-season performance.
You would still have expected a Canadian team to win the Stanley Cup sooner or later. The chance that at least one would do so was 97.5 percent, according to this method. Nonetheless, the lack of dominant Canadian teams has helped to make the 0-for-19 drought merely unlikely rather than almost impossible - raising the chance of the Canadian shutout to 2.5 percent from 0.8 percent. So it is worth asking why Canadian teams have rarely been among the N.H.L.'s elite.
Perhaps Canadian teams are competing on an unlevel playing field? Among the seven current Canadian N.H.L. teams, the median television market is 1.7 million people. By contrast, the median American team competes in a television market with 5.4 million people.
Professional hockey, however, has an extremely regional following: it is extraordinarily popular in almost all of Canada, reasonably popular in parts of the northeastern and midwestern United States, and quite obscure elsewhere in the United States. These differences more than make up for the smaller size of Canadian markets. In fact, the typical Canadian team has considerably more N.H.L. fans in its market than the typical United States team does.
In 2011, I estimated the number of fans for each N.C.A.A. football team by comparing Google search traffic for the term "college football" in different media markets. We can do the same thing for hockey by evaluating the number of people who searched for the term "N.H.L."
On a per-capita basis, searches for the term "N.H.L." were more than seven times as common in Canada as in the United States. Although the United States population is about nine times larger than Canada's, this makes up for a lot of the difference.
How many N.H.L. fans are there in each country? A 2010 YouGov poll estimated that 11 percent of American adults were serious N.H.L. fans; a 2007 Scarborough Research study, using a stricter definition that was limited to the most avid fans, put the total at just 4 percent. Using the midpoint of those two surveys yields an estimate that 7.5 percent of Americans are N.H.L. fanatics, or about 23.5 million Americans among a population of 314 million.
The frequency of Google searches in Canada for "N.H.L." implies that about 54 percent of Canadians are serious N.H.L. fans, or about 18.5 million people in a country of 34.5 million.
In other words, the two countries are reasonably close in their number of N.H.L. fans, despite the United States' vastly larger population. I estimate that Canada accounts for something like 45 percent of the N.H.L. interest between the two countries. (The N.H.L., incidentally, makes about 40 percent of its national television licensing fees from Canadian networks - and the percentage is likely to increase after the league negotiates new Canadian TV contracts.)
If N.H.L. teams were distributed between the countries in proportion to fan interest, Canada would have something like 12 to 14 teams out of a 30-team N.H.L. Instead, Canada has seven teams. This undersupply means that the Canadian N.H.L. teams have larger numbers of fans, on average.
In the chart below, I have used the Google search data to estimate the proportion of people in various United States and Canadian media markets who are serious N.H.L. fans. (The method uses Google search data at the metro-area level for the United States and at the provincial level for Canada as metro-level data is unavailable for Canada.)
The results demonstrate how much difference hockey avidity can make. Compare the cities of Los Angeles, Boston and Calgary. There are about 17 million people in the Los Angeles media market, 6.2 million in Boston's and 1.6 million in Calgary's. Based on their Google search traffic, however, I estimate that only 6 percent of the population in Los Angeles are serious N.H.L. fans, compared with 17 percent in Boston (high by United States standards) and 67 percent in Calgary (high even by Canadian standards). As a result, the three markets are roughly equivalent on hockey terms: each has about 1.1 million serious N.H.L. fans.
Another astonishing result can be obtained by comparing Houston and Saskatoon, Saskatchewan - two markets that are occasionally mentioned as possible sites for N.H.L. expansion teams. Houston's media market has about six million people, compared with not quite 340,000 for Saskatoon. However, I estimate that only 2 percent of Houston residents are serious N.H.L. fans, versus 46 percent of the population in Saskatoon. Thus, they are roughly equal at about 150,000 N.H.L. fans each.
Accounting for the far greater propensity of Canadians to follow hockey, the median Canadian team plays in a market with about 1.1 million N.H.L. fans, while the median United States team plays in a market with about 530,000 fans.
The American cities that have had their hockey teams for a long time generally place well above the United States median, however. Of the United States-based markets that had an N.H.L. team continually since 1990, all but St. Louis have at least 500,000 fans.
So a couple of decades ago, there was a nice balance in the N.H.L. between American cities with large populations but moderate hockey interest, and Canadian cities with moderate populations but intense hockey interest. There were a few outlying cases - Los Angeles has very low hockey interest but a very large population, while Buffalo has a modest population but levels of hockey affinity that approach Canadian levels. These teams functioned well enough, and no team was dragging down the average that much. The American markets that the N.H.L. has ventured into since 1990 have only about 250,000 hockey fans on average, however.
These differences in hockey interest have a profound effect on each team's bottom line. In the chart below, I have compared the number of hockey fans in each market against their estimated operating profit or loss in 2011-12, according to Forbes magazine. (For the markets with multiple hockey teams, I have divided the fans as follows: in New York, 55 percent of the market to the Rangers, 25 percent to the New Jersey Devils and 20 percent to the Islanders; and in Los Angeles, two-thirds to the Kings and one-third to the Anaheim Ducks. These estimates are derived by evaluating the number of Google searches for the team names among the residents in each metropolitan area.)
This measure of hockey fans does a very good job of predicting each team's profitability. The 13 teams with 700,000 or more N.H.L. fans in their markets all made money and totaled $357 million in operating profits. The six teams in markets with fewer than 300,000 fans all lost money, totaling $77 million in operating losses. The teams between 300,000 and 700,000 fans had varied results but roughly broke even, on average. (This is the range in which a quality of a team's management matters, along with other factors like per-capita income in the region and a team's appeal outside its immediate metropolitan area.)
Six of the seven Canadian teams are above the 700,000-fan threshold (and therefore made money). So did Winnipeg, with roughly 560,000 fans. In total, Canadian teams brought in $219 million in operating profits in 2011-12 - whereas the American teams made a net of just $31 million. (Outside of the highly profitable Rangers, in fact, the United States-based teams lost money that year.)
So why have the Canadian teams struggled to win Stanley Cups?
Part of it stems from the same reason that operating profits are so closely tied to the number of N.H.L. fans in each team's media market. N.H.L. teams vary greatly in how many fans they have available to them. But under the league's current collective bargaining agreement, there is relatively little revenue sharing. There is a hard salary cap, however, along with a high salary floor, so each team's player expenditures are about the same.
The good news for the Canadian teams is that, with nothing else to spend them on, those extra revenues flow through straight through to the bottom line. The bad news is that they could not spend them by investing in better player talent, even if they wanted to.
Before the lost season of 2004-5, the N.H.L.'s economics were different: there was no salary cap. But something else was different as well: the Canadian dollar had been historically weak against the American dollar. Thus, the Canadian teams could not take full advantage of the excess demand for hockey in the country.
In the next chart, I have estimated per-game ticket revenues for American and Canadian N.H.L. teams since 1995. Ticket revenues are calculated as per-game attendance during the regular season, multiplied by average ticket prices as reported by Team Marketing Report. (Since 2003, Team Marketing Report has designated a portion of tickets in each arena as premium seats; I assume that 20 percent of ticket sales are priced at premium levels.) All figures are denominated in current (inflation-adjusted) United States dollars. The chart also shows how much revenue the Canadian teams would have brought in had the American and Canadian dollars been trading roughly at parity throughout the period, as they have been recently.
Per-game ticket revenues for the Canadian teams lagged somewhat behind the United States teams from 1995 through 1999. This was mostly because of the weak Canadian dollar; the Canadian teams would have run even with or slightly ahead of the American teams otherwise. From 2000 through 2003, the American and Canadian teams made about the same amount of money from a typical game despite a still fairly weak Canadian dollar. Since then, the Canadian dollar has strengthened, and Canadian teams have moved considerably ahead of the American teams: the average Canadian team now makes about 50 percent more than the average American team on a per-game basis. However, it is during this period that the N.H.L.'s salary cap has been in place.
But even if the Canadian teams cannot spend their extra revenues on better player talent, this does not fully explain why they have been underachieving in the Stanley Cup and not at least winning their fair share of championships.
Much of the reason, I must emphasize again, boils down to bad luck. Canadian teams have reached the Stanley Cup finals five times in the 19 seasons since 1992-93 but have come up short on each occasion, including in four cases where the series went to the seven-game maximum.
One other factor, however, may be that there is so much excess demand for hockey in Canada that the Canadian franchises do not have to field especially strong teams to sell out their stadiums or to make a considerable profit. In the next chart, I have compared the per-game ticket revenues for each team in the 2012-13 season against the number of points they tallied between this season and the last one.
For the United States teams, there is an imperfect but reasonably clear and statistically significant relationship between on-ice success and ticket revenues. There are lots of fair-weather American hockey fans, and they may not turn out unless their team is pretty good. In Canada, there is less competition from other sports, and there are many die-hard hockey fans who attend games almost no matter what. Consider, for instance, that the Toronto Maple Leafs increased their average ticket prices from about $75 (in inflation-adjusted United States dollars) in 2005-6 to $140 this season (or from about $85 to $140 in inflation-adjusted Canadian dollars) - despite never qualifying for the playoffs in the interim. They have almost always sold out their stadium anyway.
These results can be generalized across other seasons. I ran a regression analysis that estimates per-game ticket revenues as a function of the number of hockey fans in a given media market, the number of points that a team averaged between the current season and the previous one, and a time trend. (Point totals are adjusted relative to the league-average number of points to correct for seasons shortened by labor disputes and changes to N.H.L. rules; the number of fans is expressed as a natural logarithm.)
For American teams, an additional regular-season win (worth 2 points in the standings) yields about $10,600 in extra ticket revenues per game, or roughly $430,000 over a full regular season. For Canadian teams, the marginal value of an additional regular-season win is about $1,400 per game (or $60,000 per season), which is not statistically or practically significant.
So the Canadian N.H.L. teams may suffer from a version of the problem that the Chicago Cubs faced during the "bleacher bum" years. Their fans are so loyal - happy enough to turn out for the spectacle and the beer even if the team stinks - that the franchises don't have all that much incentive to put out a competitive product.
Whether this has actually translated into complacency or mismanagement is harder to demonstrate. Even if N.H.L. teams are constrained in how much they can spend directly on player salaries, they could make other expenditures that should eventually translate into on-ice success - for example, by investing more in scouting and development. The Toronto Maple Leafs, the Montreal Canadiens and the Vancouver Canucks each employ 20 or more scouts, according to their Web sites - well above the N.H.L. average of about 15. So there is some evidence that they are making a good-faith effort to produce a quality team. (I wouldn't want to slander any professional sports franchise by comparing it with the Chicago Cubs.)
Nevertheless, a strong case can be made that these teams could stand some additional competition from N.H.L. franchises in their media markets and elsewhere in Canada.
I estimate, for instance, that there are five million N.H.L. fans in the greater Toronto region (which I define fairly liberally to include the outskirts of the Golden Horseshoe): about twice as many as in the New York metropolitan area, which has three N.H.L. teams. And Montreal and Vancouver are not far from New York in their number of N.H.L. fans.
Even acknowledging that additional N.H.L. teams in Toronto would not expect to draw as well as the Maple Leafs - just as the Islanders and the Devils do not have nearly as many fans as the Rangers - adding a second team in the Toronto area seems all but certain to produce another profitable N.H.L. franchise in a league where many teams are unable to break even. The new team would need to capture only about 14 percent of the Toronto market to reach the 700,000-fan threshold that seems to guarantee profitability in the N.H.L. A good case could also be made for a third Toronto-area team, along with second teams in Montreal and Vancouver.
At the other end of the fan-interest scale, it seems very difficult for N.H.L. teams with fewer than about 300,000 hockey fans in their media markets to turn a long-run profit under the league's current economic system. One might hold out hope that the newer hockey markets in the United States will grow to provide more revenue for their teams, but the evidence has not supported this conjecture so far. Per-game ticket revenues for United States teams in nontraditional media markets have grown at a rate of just 1.4 percent per year (inflation-adjusted) over the past 18 seasons, compared with 2.6 percent annually for traditional United States hockey markets and 4.2 percent annually for Canadian teams. These struggling United States teams hurt the Canadian teams both directly by diluting the share of Canadian teams in the league, and indirectly by compelling a salary cap structure that is meant to protect the struggling American teams (but which has yet to make most of them profitable).
My best guess is that the economically optimal distribution of N.H.L. franchises would look something like the schema in the chart below. This would include two new teams in the greater Toronto area, one new team in Montreal and one new team in Quebec City. In lieu of a second team in Vancouver, Seattle - a marginal hockey market but probably better than several United States cities that already have N.H.L. teams - would get a franchise in the hope that support might spill over into British Columbia and other parts of the Pacific Northwest. New York would retain its three N.H.L. teams as the Islanders sought to find success in Brooklyn, while Los Angeles (which has no more N.H.L. fans than Philadelphia or Boston and fewer than Vancouver or Montreal) would be shaved to one. The six United States markets with fewer than 300,000 N.H.L. fans would lose their teams.
This would yield a league with 11 Canadian franchises out of 28 - just shy of 40 percent - a level that comes much closer to the share of N.H.L. interest and revenues between among the two countries. And it would all but ensure that Canada's Stanley Cup drought ends sooner rather than later.

        
As Obama Faces Crises Abroad, His Foreign Policy Approval Is Down
        
Party Identity in a Gun Cabinet
        
Aug. 25: An Above-Average 'Likely Voter Gap' for Romney
        
Aug. 18: Obama Leads Big - Among Those Least Likely to Vote
        
Aug. 4: Likely No New Blue States in November

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); TICKET SALES (73%); CURRENCIES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); RELOCATIONS (62%) Canada; economics; hockey; N.H.L.; Stanley Cup; United States; Hockey, Ice; National Hockey League; sports

ORGANIZATION: National Hockey League

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%) QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

 
