

601 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Keep Up Near-Record Pace

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned houses rose in September to the third-highest pace on record, evidence that low borrowing costs were attracting buyers and helping sustain the economic expansion.
 The 3.1 percent increase brought sales last month to an annual rate of 6.75 million single-family houses, from 6.55 million in August, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday. The pace in June was a record 6.92 million. The association forecasts that 2004 will be the best year ever for sales. 
 ''Real estate has been and will continue to be a pillar of the economy,'' said James R. Gillespie, president and chief executive of Coldwell Banker Real Estate in Parsippany, N. J. ''There are no concerns for me at all as far as the economy and housing.''
 Declining mortgage rates are driving sales even as rising oil prices and lackluster job growth weigh on the economic expansion. The three hurricanes that pummeled Florida kept sales from rising further, the association said.
 The median forecast called for resales to fall to an annual rate of 6.51 million from a previously reported 6.54 million for August. 
 ''The housing market just refuses to falter,'' said Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa. ''With mortgage rates quite low, there is little reason to expect demand to drop suddenly.''
 Resales account for 85 percent of the residential real estate market in the United States. Sales were a record 6.1 million last year. The association forecast on Oct. 5 that sales this year would climb to an annual rate of 6.49 million before easing back.
 In a speech yesterday at a conference of mortgage bankers in San Francisco, Franklin Raines, the chief executive of Fannie Mae, warned that housing prices may be rising too fast in some markets.
 Gains in some areas of the country are being fueled in part by investor demand, Mr. Raines said. Fannie Mae is the biggest provider of mortgage financing in the United States.
 ''I've spent a lot of time over the past few years arguing that there is no 'housing bubble,''' Mr. Raines said. ''And nationally, that's still true. But we are seeing investor-driven price increases in certain markets, some within this region. And these markets could soften as investor demand wanes, as it inevitably does.''
 An index of housing prices is up 9 percent in the second quarter from a year before, the fastest four-quarter increase since 1979, Mr. Raines said. The difference, he said, is that in 1979 the rate of inflation was 11 percent, while today it is 2.4 percent.
 ''The data indicate that this price increase is being fueled in part by a big increase in investor demand over the past three quarters,'' Mr. Raines said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); INFLATION (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); WEATHER (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%) Housing; Sales

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%) National Assn of Realtors

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



602 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: In His Own Words

 BODY:

Senator John Kerry
Remarks on Saturday in Pueblo, Colo.
 ''We need a president, my friends, who asks you to join together in voting not for your fears, but voting for your hopes for this country. That's what this is about.
 Let me tell you, it's time for us to join together to unite America, to come together around the ideals and hopes and aspirations of the American people, not the fears. This president keeps going around the country trying to scare people. He talks about only one thing; the only thing he wants to talk about is terror, the war on terror, national security. 
 Here's what we need in America: we need a president of the United States who can do more than one thing at the same time. 
 I know that as a country, whenever we had possibilities, we're the people who reach for the possibilities, that's who we are as Americans. If people had told you years ago, 'Oh, don't bother looking for a polio vaccine; you're giving people false hope. Don't bother looking for smallpox vaccine; you're giving people false hope' -- 
 Well, let me tell you something, I don't believe it's a false hope to look for those cures, and that's why I will be the president who opens up stem cell research for America so we can do what we need to do.
 Five million Americans have lost their health care under George Bush, and he's done nothing about it. Forty-five million Americans have no health care, but when I'm president, we're going to make sure, No.1 , every child in America will be covered automatically: Day1, you go to school, you're covered. You go to day care; you're covered. You've got health care. No.2, we're going to make it possible for every single American that wants to, to buy in to the same health care plan senators and congressmen give themselves 
 I pledge to you that I'm going to reduce that deficit. Over the span of four years, we're going to cut it in half in the first four years Every program I've laid out to America I've shown how I'm going to pay for it, and if we can't pay for it, we're not going to do it. It's that simple, folks. We're going to be responsible.
 We're going to restore America's future. This administration is stealing that future, and worse. He is quoted in last week's papers as saying he's going to move rapidly to privatize Social Security. Well, let me make it very clear to everybody here: I will not privatize Social Security, I will not cut the benefits, I will not raise the retirement age; I will strengthen it by strengthening the American economy and restoring fiscal responsibility.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); TERRORISM (75%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); VACCINES (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); SMALLPOX (67%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PUEBLO, CO, USA (88%) COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



603 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Voter Guide 2004; THE ISSUES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2245 words

HEADLINE: Fact Check

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:

Yes, He Said That, But What He Really Meant Was . . .
 This fall and especially after the debates, The Times has analyzed the accuracy of statements made by the presidential candidates. Here are highlights of that coverage on some of the most important issues of the campaign.

IRAQ
 More than a dozen times in the first debate on Oct. 1, President Bush accused Senator John Kerry of continually shifting positions on Iraq. 
 A review of Mr. Kerry's public statements found that his position had actually been quite consistent. But as the politics changed, Mr. Kerry repeatedly changed his emphasis. News accounts reflected what he was emphasizing at the time. And Mr. Kerry was often unclear in expressing his views. 
 On Oct. 9, 2002, Mr. Kerry was planning to run for president, but had not yet announced his candidacy. Before he voted to give Mr. Bush the authority to use force against Saddam Hussein in Iraq, he declared on the Senate floor: ''I will support a multilateral effort to disarm him by force, if we ever exhaust those other options, as the president has promised, but I will not support a unilateral U.S. war against Iraq unless that threat is imminent and the multilateral effort has not proven possible under any circumstances.''
 That is essentially his position today. But look at what Mr. Kerry has said in the meantime: 
 In May 2003, two months after the United States invaded Iraq and routed Mr. Hussein's army, Mr. Kerry was the presumed front-runner for the Democratic nomination. Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, from the antiwar wing of the party, was not yet regarded as a serious threat. In a nine-candidate debate in Columbia, S.C., that month, Mr. Kerry declared: ''I would have preferred if we had given diplomacy a greater opportunity, but I think it was the right decision to disarm Saddam Hussein. And when the president made the decision, I supported him, and I support the fact that we did disarm him.'' 
 By October 2003, Dr. Dean had begun to emerge as a strong candidate and it had become clear that no unconventional weapons would be found in Iraq. Mr. Kerry asserted that month on the ABC News program ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos'': ''The president and his advisers did not do almost anything correctly in the walk-up to the war. They rushed to war. They were intent on going to war. They did not give legitimacy to the inspections. We could have still been doing inspections even today.'' 
Five days later, Mr. Kerry voted against a Republican bill to provide $87 billion more to support American troops and to pay reconstruction costs in Iraq and Afghanistan. Before that vote, he voted for a version of the measure Mr. Bush threatened to veto, a version that would have raised the $87 billion by repealing tax cuts for Americans with annual incomes of more than $200,000.
 By March, Mr. Kerry had won the early contests, essentially clinching the nomination. On March 16, he explained his vote against the $87 billion for the troops by saying, in a comment Mr. Bush has repeatedly ridiculed, ''I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it.'' 
 On Aug. 9, following the Democratic convention, Mr. Kerry told reporters during a trip to the Grand Canyon that he ''would have voted for the authority'' for Mr. Bush to use troops in Iraq even if he had known that unconventional weapons would not be found and that no close connection existed between Iraq and Al Qaeda. 
 This was the first time Mr. Kerry had expressed that view, and reports emphasized it. Many accounts, especially those on television, did not include his further explanation that ''it's the right authority for a president to have'' and that, referring to subsequent events in Iraq, he ''would have done this very differently from the way President Bush has.'' 
 Then last month on the radio program ''Imus in the Morning,'' the host, Don Imus, asked Mr. Kerry, ''Do you think there are any circumstances in which we should have gone to war in Iraq?'' Mr. Kerry replied: ''Not under the current circumstances, no. There are none that I see. I voted based on weapons of mass destruction. The president distorted that, and I've said that.'' 
 That was another new point, and nearly all accounts emphasized it. Many did not include the rest of what Mr. Kerry said: ''But I think it was the right vote based on what Saddam Hussein had done, and I think it was the right thing to do to hold him accountable. I've said 100 times, there was a right way to do it and a wrong way to do it. The president chose the wrong way.'' 

COALITION
 Mr. Bush said the war in Iraq was being waged by a large coalition; Mr. Kerry said that the coalition was shrinking and that eight countries had left it. 
 As of this month, 30 foreign countries had joined the United States, but they contribute only about 24,000 troops, with Britain supplying 8,000 of them. The United States has about 138,000 troops in Iraq, and 90 percent of the non-Iraqi casualties have been American. 
 Eight allied countries have withdrawn troops from Iraq since February: the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua, Norway, the Philippines, Singapore, Spain and Thailand. 

AL QAEDA
 Mr. Bush's statement in the first debate that 75 percent of Osama bin Laden's ''people have been brought to justice'' is impossible to document. It appears to refer to terrorist leaders, a loosely defined category. 
There is no reliable tally of how many Qaeda operatives ever existed, and the administration has not provided the number who have been captured or killed.

DOMESTIC SECURITY
 Mr. Kerry complained in the first debate that money spent on the war could be better used for police, firefighters and other security measures at home. 
 He said the administration had put ''not one nickel'' into protection for vulnerable tunnels, bridges and subways. 
 That is an exaggeration. 
 Even Democratic critics demanding more spending on rail and transit security and lobbyists for transit systems say the federal government has spent millions of dollars, while local transit authorities have spent more than a billion dollars.
 Mr. Bush's statement that the administration had ''tripled the amount of money we're spending on homeland security to $30 billion a year'' was an 
approximation and embroidered somewhat the rate of growth. It depends in part on what programs are counted, and from what date.
 Money for programs inherited by the new Department of Homeland Security from other agencies has more than doubled since 2001, to about $24 billion in the fiscal year 2004, according to a report in April by the Congressional Budget Office.
 Related programs in other agencies have grown almost as fast, bringing total domestic security spending to about $41 billion, a doubling since 2001.
 Democrats have argued for even faster growth in spending on some of these programs.

IRAQ AND U.N. SANCTIONS
 In the second debate, on Oct. 8, President Bush and Senator Kerry drew contradictory conclusions from the 918-page report issued this month by Charles A. Duelfer, the top American arms inspector in Iraq, and their interpretations did not always accurately reflect the report's findings. 
 After Mr. Kerry said that the Duelfer report had demonstrated that United Nations sanctions against Iraq ''worked,'' Mr. Bush said the report's lesson instead was that it was ''naive and dangerous'' to ''just let the inspectors do their job.'' 
 In fact, that report did not draw a firm conclusion about whether the sanctions and inspections succeeded in disarming Iraq. It said that Saddam Hussein's ''primary goal from 1991 to 2003 was to have U.N. sanctions lifted.'' But it also said that between 2000 and 2001, Iraq ''managed to mitigate many of the effects of sanctions and undermine their international support.'' 
 Mr. Bush referred to findings pointing to how porous the sanctions were and showing Iraq's success between 1991 and 2003 at circumventing the restrictions, primarily through imports of conventional weapons.
 But Mr. Kerry emphasized what he portrayed as the restrictions' bottom-line success, in prompting what Mr. Duelfer said was the fundamental decision that Iraq made after the war in the Persian Gulf in 1991 to set aside its plans for illicit weapons, at least for the time being, to win an end to sanctions. 

JOBS
 Mr. Kerry said in the second debate that Mr. Bush's was the first presidency in 72 years in which the number of jobs had fallen and that the nation had lost 1.6 million jobs since 2000. Mr. Bush said 1.9 million new jobs had been created in the last 13 months. 
 Mr. Kerry's figure for job losses counted only private-sector jobs. More than 1 million government jobs have been created. The total jobs lost has been about 585,000 through last month. 
 Mr. Bush is the first president since Herbert Hoover to have had the number of jobs fall during his term. The nearly 2 million new jobs created in a little more than a year still leaves the administration in the hole.

TAXES AND THE BUDGET
 Mr. Bush said in the third debate that most of the tax reduction in his presidency had gone ''to low- and middle-income Americans.''
 In fact, Internal Revenue Service figures compiled by the Tax Policy Center of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute show that half of all the tax cuts in effect this year go to the wealthiest 10 percent of taxpayers, those with incomes above about $112,000.
 One-quarter of the cuts go to the richest 1 percent, those with incomes above about $357,000.
 Mr. Bush also said the cuts were needed ''to get us out of the recession.'' But he proposed the cuts in his last presidential campaign, in 2000, before anyone knew that a recession was at hand, and he justified them by saying the surplus should be returned to the taxpayers. 
 The president said, as he often has elsewhere, that Mr. Kerry had voted for tax increases 98 times. That is probably true. But many, if not most, of those were multiple votes on the same bills or on nonbinding resolutions and motions. Mr. Kerry voted against the tax increase pushed by the president's father in 1990 to reduce the budget deficit. He voted for one large tax increase -- the Clinton bill of 1993, which imposed most of the increases on upper-income payers. Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush had proposed $3 trillion in new spending, and Mr. Bush said Mr. Kerry had proposed $2 trillion. Neither claim can be proved, because the details of their proposals are so vague.
 Mr. Kerry was correct when he said the budget had a projected $5.6 trillion surplus over 10 years when Mr. Bush took office and now has large deficits for the foreseeable future. 
 But Mr. Kerry was not accurate when he said he had shown ''exactly how'' he intended to pay for all his spending proposals. In fact, he lists as additional revenues such vague promises as closing corporate loopholes and making the government more efficient. 
 The Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan group that seeks deficit reduction, projects that Mr. Bush would cut taxes by $1.2 trillion in the coming decade, while Mr. Kerry would reduce revenues by $498 billion. New spending proposed by Senator Kerry would total $771 billion in the next decade, compared with $82 billion proposed by Mr. Bush.

BETTER OFF, WORSE OFF
 Much of the third debate turned on the question of whether Americans had more money in their pockets as a result of President Bush's policies. 
 Mr. Kerry offered an array of statistics that in his view showed that people were worse off than they were at the beginning of the Bush presidency. 
 Mr. Bush accused his challenger of ''a litany of misstatements'' and held that voters were in better financial shape because of his tax cuts. But, as with the Kerry data, the accuracy of the president's statements is not obvious. 
 The truth seems to be that, after adjustments for inflation, Americans on average may have more money at their disposal. But more people are worse off than are better off. 
 The trick is in the word ''average.'' Average income -- all the income in the country divided by the total number of people -- has gone up because of the large increase in after-tax income enjoyed by the very wealthy. 
 But median income -- the point at which half the people have more and half less -- has dropped.

SOCIAL SECURITY, THE DRAFT
 For weeks, the president attacked Mr. Kerry in ways that the Kerry campaign and outside commentators called distortions. After their last debate, Mr. Kerry began criticizing President Bush on Social Security and the draft in a manner that reached far beyond Mr. Bush's positions. 
 On Social Security, Mr. Kerry maintained that Mr. Bush planned a ''January surprise'' that could cost retirees up to 45 percent of their monthly checks. On the draft, Mr. Kerry said that involuntary extensions and National Guard call-ups amounted to a backdoor draft. He also told The Des Moines Register that there was ''the great potential of the draft'' if Mr. Bush won a second term. 
 Mr. Kerry's implication that people now retired stood to have their benefits cut was not fair. Mr. Bush has promised not to cut the Social Security benefits of current retirees or those nearing retirement age, and no plan under consideration would do that. 
 On the draft, Mr. Bush said flatly in the second debate that he had no plans to reinstate military conscription. There is hardly any political support for a draft, and the Pentagon is very much opposed to one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); VETO (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARMIES (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); ARMED FORCES (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Election Issues

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) David E Rosenbaum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



604 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Voter Guide 2004; THE REPUBLICANS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: The Bush Philosophy: Resolute, No Matter What

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
GEORGE W. BUSH ran for president four years ago with a strategy intended to round his edges and soften ideology with personality. He was ''a new kind of Republican,'' a ''uniter not a divider'' and, of course, a ''compassionate conservative,'' to recall a few of the slogans that might have left many Americans not entirely certain of what kind of president they were putting in the Oval Office.
 As he faces the voters this year as an incumbent, Mr. Bush, 58, has assembled a weighty if polarizing record on foreign and domestic policy that leaves no doubt where he stands on the big issues. 
 After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, he carried out a national security strategy built on the conviction that nothing -- certainly not diplomatic niceties -- would stand in the way of trying to protect the American people from Islamic extremism, or the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. 
 He pushed through Congress four major tax cuts for individuals, hailing them as essential to the recovering economy, and he just signed another tax bill benefiting many corporations. He worked to reduce labor and environmental regulations, saying he could do so without sacrificing worker safety and clean air and water. He backed a proposed constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage, argued in favor of limiting affirmative action and nominated conservatives to the federal courts. 
 Yet Mr. Bush is not always ideologically rigid, with a record also marked by what could be viewed as pragmatism, opportunism or failure. He talks about holding down government spending, but has presided over the biggest expansion of the federal government since the Great Society of the 1960's. 
 He has been an advocate of expanded trade, but he imposed temporary tariffs on imported steel to help steel makers in the battleground states of Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio. He has sought to bring market forces to bear on social welfare programs to hold down the growth in their costs, but enthusiastically signed into law the establishment of a prescription drug benefit for Medicare, the biggest expansion of an entitlement program in decades. 
 In pursuing his agenda with a Republican-led Congress, he has mixed charm, strong-arm politics, intense party discipline and a degree of certitude that has been inspiring to his supporters and maddening to his opponents. On many issues, big and small, his approach often seems binary: yes or no, good or evil, with us or against us. 
 With rare exceptions -- like the 2002 bipartisan education bill that imposed more accountability on schools but also gave them more federal money -- he has pushed for total victory rather than a middle ground. Yet when faced with sure legislative defeat or political setback, he has capitulated and unabashedly claimed victory. Who remembers that Mr. Bush originally opposed the creation of the Homeland Security Department, or the establishment of an independent commission to investigate 9/11?
 He can be impatient, peevish when challenged and, as a national television audience learned during his first debate with Senator John Kerry, he sometimes lets anger manifest itself in a scowl. But he tends to sunny optimism, action over contemplation and instinct over detailed analysis.
 It is not the type of presidency he thought he had won, albeit by the slimmest of margins under the most disputed of circumstances, in 2000. Back then, politics was consumed by issues like the Social Security ''lockbox,'' prosperity seemed a given and wars happened in hard-to-pronounce Balkan towns.
 Mr. Bush has never hesitated to use the powers of his office to the fullest, even before 9/11 transformed him into, as he puts it, ''a war president.'' From the start, he governed as if he had a clear mandate rather a razor-thin victory in which he lost the popular vote but won in the Electoral College, and only after the Supreme Court had ruled in his favor. And while he would be freed in a second term from the constraints of presidential electoral politics, he was hardly timid in pursuing his agenda in his first term.
 If there is an overarching theme to his re-election effort, it is his faith in what he calls ''the transformational power of liberty.'' By that, he means his belief that the long-term task for the United States is to at least plant the seeds of democracy in the Middle East and throughout those regions of the world that could otherwise continue to breed poverty, anger and pools of terrorists.
 Should he take the oath of office again on Jan. 20, it is the pursuit of that goal and its primary prerequisite -- bringing stability to Iraq -- that would surely dominate his second term.
 ''If you count the number of times he said ''free'' or ''freedom'' in relation to Iraq and the Middle East during the debates, you would have to assume his vision of liberating and transforming the Middle East would be at the top of any second-term agenda,'' said James P. Pinkerton, a policy aide in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and the first President Bush. ''His aides will say, ''No one is going to remember what you did on taxes or Social Security. For better or worse, Mr. President, this is who you are.''
 But while Mr. Bush will no doubt be subject to the same forces that lure most second-term presidents to put their energies into foreign policy over domestic issues, he still has ambitious domestic goals.
 He wants to create personal investment accounts within Social Security, a step that would fundamentally alter perhaps the most popular and successful government program. He has called for an overhaul of the tax system, though he has offered no details of what he has in mind. He wants to do more to protect doctors and businesses from lawsuits and to place a cap on what plaintiffs collect, allow more domestic oil and gas drilling, stiffen math and science requirements for high school students and expand tax breaks for the purchase of health insurance.
 With so little trust between the White House and the Democratic leadership, it would be all the more difficult to bring the two sides together on issues that require bipartisan trust, like dealing with the budget deficit. And whichever party controls Congress, there would almost surely be a poisonous atmosphere in confrontations over social issues and the likely nominations of new Supreme Court justices. 
 But that would not be likely to stop him from seeking what he wants. On domestic and foreign policy, Mr. Bush has been willing to take big risks for big payoffs. His agenda and his style have many critics, but his performance as president and as governor of Texas suggests that he is dogged in pursuit of the relatively few goals he decides are paramount.
 There is no assurance, of course, that any amount of tenacity will bring stability, much less full-fledged democracy, to Iraq. Whether to begin disengaging in Iraq and how quickly in the absence of clear progress, if it comes to that, will be questions with profound foreign policy and political implications. 
 Either way, Mr. Bush in a second term would also continue to deal with one unpredictable and hostile nation that already has nuclear weapons, North Korea. He would have to deal with another country that seems intent on acquiring them, Iran, and the prospect that still more countries as well as terrorist groups will try to join the nuclear club.
 The administration's effort to find an accommodation between Israel and the Palestinians has stalled. Relations with France and Germany remain deeply strained, and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain has paid a big price at home for standing shoulder to shoulder with Mr. Bush over Iraq.
 In Mr. Bush's action, especially in dealing with Iraq, his critics see a record of cowboy unilateralism that has eroded whatever moral authority the United States had with the rest of the world. 
 Mr. Bush and his aides say the critics have caricatured his foreign policy. They say he has a strong record of building alliances, addressing problems through diplomacy and respecting the needs and desires of the rest of the world. In dealing with North Korea, they say, he is working with South Korea, Japan, China and Russia. In confronting Iran, he has allowed the European allies to take the lead.
 Yet Mr. Bush's brand of internationalism, by his own account, is limited. ''I'll work with our allies, I'll build coalitions, but I will never turn over our national security decisions to leaders of other countries,'' he says in his stump speech.
 On the home front, Mr. Bush is vulnerable to criticism that his tax cuts have not generated anything close to the numbers of jobs the administration promised. He is, as Mr. Kerry is fond of repeating, the first president since Herbert Hoover to face the voters with a net loss of jobs during his term. In part because of the tax cuts, a huge budget surplus has given way to a substantial deficit. And many other indicators suggest that things have gotten worse rather than better for many Americans. The number of people without health insurance has grown. Poverty levels are up.
 To offset some of the spending increases for the war and measures to protect the nation from terrorism, Mr. Bush has sought to hold down spending on most social welfare programs.
 To listen to the White House, what is remarkable is how effective the tax cuts have been in helping to nurse the economy through a recession, terrorist attacks, war and corporate scandals. ''This economy is moving forward, and we're not going to go back to the days of big government, tax and spend,'' Mr. Bush says in his stump speech, suggesting that Mr. Kerry would give the economy the wrong medicine. Mr. Bush points to hopeful signs like the creation of 1.7 millions jobs in the last year, an unemployment rate that is lower than the average of any of the past several decades and record rates of home ownership.
 The bloodshed in Iraq, the economy's inability to generate jobs in large numbers, the tight presidential race, all have taken some of the swagger out of Mr. Bush, but not his basic self-confidence and optimism. As he prepared two months ago to accept his party's nomination for another term, he was asked how he had changed. He talked first about the presidency rather than himself, made clear his discomfort with introspection and finally settled on resolve as the appropriate characteristic to apply to himself.
 ''So one thing is,'' he said, ''I'm a very determined person.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush greeting Senator John Kerry after the debate on Oct. 13 in Tempe, Ariz. On issues, Mr. Bush reaches out sparingly. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); TERRORISM (74%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); EDUCATION LAW (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); MEDICARE (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (67%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (66%); MARRIAGE LAW (66%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (61%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%); RELIGION (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



605 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: European Trade Chief Says Sanctions on U.S. Will End

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
The European trade commissioner, Pascal Lamy, announced an end to a five-year dispute with the United States on Monday, saying he was lifting $4 billion in sanctions on American products, after President Bush signed a law repealing tax breaks for large American exporters.
 But Mr. Lamy, despite his eagerness to sign off on the dispute that has shadowed a term in office soon to end, said he suspected that Washington had left some of the tax breaks in place.
 Mr. Bush signed the legislation on Friday ending tax breaks that have been worth billions of dollars over the last decade to exporters including Boeing, Microsoft and General Electric, and at the same time adding a range of new tax advantages for corporations. 
 The World Trade Organization, based in Geneva, had found that the tax program, known as the Foreign Sales Corporation, provided illegal subsidies.
 ''I am extremely pleased that this bill now has become law,'' Mr. Lamy said at his final news conference before stepping down from the post at the end of the week, ''and obviously I am very satisfied that our efforts have been rewarded after five years.''
 The United States said in a statement that it welcomed the European Union's action and that it felt sure that nothing more needed to be done to resolve the European complaints.
 The bill, which takes effect at the beginning of 2005, gives American companies two years to wean themselves off the old tax breaks. 
 The legislation allows the United States to give $4 billion, or 80 percent of the amount distributed under the Foreign Sales Corporation program, to American companies next year. In 2006 this will fall to $3 billion, or 60 percent.
 Mr. Lamy, while accepting the transition period, balked at a separate provision in the law that would allow American companies that make products with long delivery times, like Boeing, to continue getting the tax break if they have orders from abroad that were signed before Sept. 17, 2003.
 ''Our intuition is that this isn't in conformity'' with the W.T.O. ruling, Mr. Lamy said. He said that the amount involved was modest compared with the overall tax breaks, but that the provision still posed a problem.
 ''We have been trying to put the F.S.C. to bed for a long time,'' Mr. Lamy added. ''It is now in bed, but we need to just check before the lights go out.''
 A spokesman for the United States trade representative, Richard Mills, said Monday that the Congressional action had eliminated the provisions of the tax code that the W.T.O. found illegally subsidized exports.
 ''We will continue to explain to the E.U. and others how the new law brings the U.S. into compliance,'' he said.
 The task of checking will be handled by Mr. Lamy's successor, Peter Mandelson of Britain, who takes office next week. 
 The first step will be to ask the World Trade Organization to check if the legislation is, indeed, in compliance. This formal process takes 90 days. If the W.T.O. finds that it is not, then the European Commission may ask the W.T.O. for permission to draw up a new list of American products to face sanctions.
 Mr. Lamy played down the possibility of a new dispute over tax breaks. ''If the United States doesn't conform,'' he said, ''it would only be at that juncture that we would start talking of sanctions.''
 Trade experts based in Brussels said Mr. Lamy's mixed message welcoming the bill and at the same time warning that it did not go far enough was simply pragmatic.
 ''He recognizes that for the Americans to abolish the F.S.C. is a big deal because it means doing away with something that has been part and parcel of business life for decades,'' said Philip Bentley, a trade expert and partner in the Brussels office of the law firm Stanbrook & Hooper.
 ''He doesn't want to push the Americans too hard, especially before the presidential elections next week, because there is a risk they will strike back and worsen the trade atmosphere,'' he added. ''But nevertheless, he wants to leave the door open for future action if it's needed.''
 The United States has already opened a new front in its trade disputes with Europe. Earlier this month, it complained to the W.T.O. about the way European governments supported the commercial plane maker Airbus with subsidies.
 Within hours, Mr. Lamy filed a countercomplaint about American support for Boeing. On Monday, Mr. Lamy said he had proposed face-to-face talks on Nov. 4 and 5 to try to defuse this new dispute.
 The final pieces of the old dispute, along with the disagreement on aircraft subsidies, pose a problem for Mr. Mandelson, Mr. Bentley said.
 ''Lamy is taking the glory for settling the bulk of the F.S.C. dispute, but it could actually be harder to solve the small bits left for his successor,'' he said, adding that Mr. Mandelson would need a deft touch in dealing with these problems. 
 ''There won't be much glory in tidying up the loose ends of the F.S.C. dispute,'' Mr. Bentley said, ''but the price will be very high if he gets it wrong.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%) International Trade and World Market; Taxation; Law and Legislation; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union; World Trade Organization

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); PASCAL LAMY (90%) Pascal Lamy; George W (Pres) Bush; Paul Meller

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%) Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



606 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Voter Guide 2004; THE ISSUES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: Where They Stand, What They've Done

 BODY:

President George W. Bush

ABORTION
*Opposes abortion, except in cases of rape or incest or when a woman's life is endangered, but has said neither the country nor Congress is ready for a ban. Opposes federal funding for abortion. Signed legislation to outlaw a type of second- and third-trimester abortion procedure.

*Says he would not impose an abortion ''litmus test'' on judicial appointments, but cited justices who oppose abortion rights as model appointments and says he favors ''strict constructionists.''

*Criticized F.D.A.'s approval of morning-after pill.

DEATH PENALTY
*Supports the death penalty.

ECONOMY
*Signed tax cuts in each of the past four years, including a $1.35 trillion cut over 10 years in 2001, which he wants to make permanent. Says the cuts have helped the nation overcome recession and are responsible for a surge in economic growth. The cuts have contributed to deficits expected to surpass $400 billion this year. Pledges to cut the deficit in half after five years, in part by urging Congress to limit discretionary spending except for defense and homeland security.

*Would cut the corporate rate to 32 percent from 35 percent.

*Wants $3,000 re-employment accounts to help with jobsearch costs.

*Supports Nafta and World Trade Organization agreements. Supports liberalized trade.

*Opposes an increase in the minimum wage.

EDUCATION
*Supports taxpayer-financed vouchers for tuition at parochial and other private schools. Signed the 2002 No Child Left Behind Act, calling for increased annual testing in third through eighth grades by 2005-2006 and tying federal funding to results of tests.

*Opposes making preschool available to all 4-year-olds.

*Opposes making federally backed bonds available for school repair and construction.

*Signed a law providing some tax breaks for college tuition that the administration says saved students and their parents an estimated $9 billion.

ENVIRONMENT
*Rejected Kyoto Protocol on limiting global-warming gases on the ground it would hurt the nation's economy. Reversed a pledge to regulate carbon dioxide and proposed easing requirement that older factories and refineries to add pollution controls if they expand.

*Reduced plans for drilling off the Florida coast because of local opposition. Proposed opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling.

FOREIGN POLICY
*After the Sept. 11 attacks, instituted a policy of preemptive strikes, unilaterally if necessary, against suspected threats to the nation's security. Swift military victory in Iraq has been followed by a violent insurgency against the new government. Despite later findings that Iraq had no weapons of mass destruction and had only tenuous ties to Al Qaeda, Mr. Bush said that Saddam Hussein had the will and potential to develop such weapons and help terrorists and that ousting him has made the world safer and will encourage democracy in the Middle East.

*Waged a successful war against Taliban in Afghanistan, where elections were held this month.

*Won Congressional approval of $87 billion for continued military operations and aid in Iraq and Afghanistan.

*Calls for a Palestinian state as part of the peace plan known as the road map.

GAY RIGHTS
*Opposes gay marriage. Supports a constitutional amendment defining marriage as the union between a man and a woman, but says states should decide whether to allow civil unions for gay couples.

*Has continued Clinton policy allowing gays to serve in the military if they are not open about their sexuality.

GUN CONTROL
*Favors granting gun makers immunity from civil lawsuits arising from wrongful use of weapons.

*Supports renewing the ban on assault-type weapons and requiring background checks at gun shows, but let the 10-year-old ban on assault-type weapons expire.

HEALTH CARE
*Signed a law giving the elderly limited prescription drug coverage under Medicare for the first time, at an estimated cost of $534 billion over the next 10 years. It subsidizes costs for low-income patients and encourages private insurance companies to offer coverage for the elderly who drop traditional Medicare.

*Generally opposes importation of lower-cost drugs on grounds that the government cannot guarantee their safety.

*Supports expansion of tax-free medical savings accounts.

*The president's election-year budget proposes a $1,000 tax credit to help four million uninsured Americans buy health insurance.

*Argued against patients' right to sue federally regulated health plans and proposes capping medical malpractice awards.

HOMELAND SECURITY AND DEFENSE
*After resisting Congressional demands, created a new cabinet-level position to coordinate antiterrorism efforts; tripled spending on security.

*Argues that even illegal immigrants without known links to terrorist groups can be detained indefinitely.

*Reconfigured the F.B.I. to focus on preventing attacks.

*Signed the Patriot Act, which gave law enforcement agents expanded powers to apprehend suspects.

*Hopes to deploy a shield against ballistic missiles.

*Has increased defense spending by $100 billion, the most in real terms since the Korean War.

*Began redeployment of troops from South Korea and Europe. Pledges he will not reinstate the draft.

SOCIAL SECURITY
*Favors giving younger workers choice of placing some of their Social Security payroll tax into personal retirement accounts, with potential of a higher return in exchange for smaller Social Security benefits.

*Has not ruled out raising retirement age.

Senator John Kerry

ABORTION
*Supports abortion rights and federal funding for abortion and abortion counseling. Voted against the ban on a second- and third-trimester abortion procedure because it does not allow for abortion when the life of the woman is endangered.

*Says he will appoint only judges who support abortion rights to the Supreme Court.

*Says health plans should assure women coverage for contraceptives.

DEATH PENALTY
*Opposes the death penalty, except for terrorists.

ECONOMY
*Would repeal Mr. Bush's tax cuts for taxpayers with incomes above $200,000 and promises not to raise taxes for people earning less. Favors $18 billion a year in health care tax credits for low- and moderate-income workers, including a 75 percent credit for those earning up to 300 percent of the poverty level.

*Criticizes Mr. Bush because during his presidency, the country has lost at least 585,000 jobs. Calls for $50 billion over an unspecified period for job-creation and economic-stimulus programs and tax credits to discourage outsourcing abroad.

*Would cut the corporate tax rate by 5 percent.

*Vows to cut deficit in half by end of first term, letting federal spending rise no more than the inflation rate except for defense, domestic security and education.

*Supported North American and world trade agreements and elevated trade status with China. Would review trade agreements to assess local labor and environmental standards.

*Favors an increase in the minimum wage to $7 from $5.15 by 2007 and then indexing it to inflation.

EDUCATION
*Opposes private-school vouchers as a drain on public school resources. Supports the 2002 legislation but says the funding has been insufficient and proposes $27 billion fully fund the act and creation of a $200 billion education trust fund.

*Supports a $3.2 billion community service plan for high school students that would qualify them for the equivalent of their state's four-year public college tuition they perform two years of national service.

*Favors a tax credit for college tuition costs.

ENVIRONMENT
*Would not sign Kyoto Protocol to cut emissions but would invest in development of hydrogen, ethanol and other cleaner renewable fuels.

*Would steer $20 billion from oil and gas royalties to development of cleaner energy.

*Opposes drilling in Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Wants 20 percent of electricity from renewable or alternative sources by 2020.

*Supported tougher fuel-efficiency standards for vehicles.

FOREIGN POLICY
*Supported a Congressional resolution letting Mr. Bush go to war in Iraq but now says he did so based on faulty intelligence and assuming the president would build a broad coalition and invade as a last resort.

*Voted against an $87 billion package for Iraq and Afghanistan (after voting for an earlier version that would have been paid for by repealing tax cuts for people who earn more than $200,000). Says he would begin troop withdrawal within six months and complete it within four years by enlisting more support from NATO allies.

*Voted to enlarge NATO to include Eastern Europe

*Sees the Bush administration's Middle East road map as an acceptable approach for reinvigorating peace efforts, but says there must be verifiable security benchmarks that the Palestinian Authority can reasonably achieve.

GAY RIGHTS
*Does not favor gay marriage, but opposes a constitutional amendment banning it and says individual states should decide. Supports right to civil unions for same-sex couples. Would ban job discrimination against homosexuals and extend hate-crime protections to gays.

*Would let gays serve openly in the military.

GUN CONTROL
*Opposes granting gun makers immunity from suits.

*Supports renewing the ban on assault-type weapons.

*Would require the same background checks at gun shows that are mandatory for other gun sales. Supports mandatory child safety locks.

HEALTH CARE
*Proposes expanding health insurance coverage so that all children and 95 percent of adults are covered, at a cost to the government of $895 billion over 10 years.

*Favors lowering costs of prescription drugs by allowing bulk purchasing by Medicare and easier importation of drugs from Canada.

*Criticized law signed by Mr. Bush giving the elderly prescription drug coverage under Medicare as insufficient, saying it fails to directly involve the government in lowering costs.

*Wants to expand the insurance system now available for federal employees to private citizens through tax credits and subsidies.

*Favors a 75 percent tax credit to help pay for insurance.

*Would give patients an independent review process to appeal coverage decisions.

*Would bar medical malpractice suits unless a specialist ruled the claim reasonable.

*Favors federal support to expand access to stateadministered health insurance for children.

HOMELAND SECURITY AND DEFENSE
*Voted for the Patriot Act, which gave the federal government broad new law enforcement powers; says he supports most of it, but believes it can be improved to enhance its effectiveness and prevent abuses.

*Opposes a national missile defense shield.

*Proposes to increase active-duty forces by 40,000 and double Army Special Forces. Would place National Guard under Homeland Security. Opposes a draft and says that reserve call-ups and orders that involuntarily extend tours of duty amount to a "backdoor draft."

SOCIAL SECURITY
*Opposes personal accounts under Social Security.

*Opposes raising retirement age or reducing payments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); WILDLIFE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (70%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TALIBAN (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); BONDS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); MINIMUM WAGE (66%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); AL-QAEDA (60%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%); CONTRACEPTION (55%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ARCTIC (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



607 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Voter Guide 2004; THE VOTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: All Those Promises: Do They Really Matter?

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
LYNDON JOHNSON famously declared during the 1964 presidential campaign that he was ''not about to send American boys 9,000 or 10,000 miles away from home to do what Asian boys ought to be doing themselves.'' Woodrow Wilson campaigned for re-election in 1916, the year before the United States entered World War I, on a promise of peace and prosperity. And George W. Bush pledged in 2000 that he would have a ''humble'' foreign policy without nation-building.
 As more than 100 million Americans head to the polls next Tuesday to participate in the great democratic experience of a presidential election, history prompts some tough questions:
 Don't wars and terrorism overpower any president, offering what can feel like an inevitable course of action? Adding in the possibility that a president will inherit a recalcitrant Congress, or that he may even change his mind, does it really matter what the candidates say during the long months of a campaign? And if what they say about their positions doesn't matter, then is there some better way to judge how a candidate will perform in the Oval Office? 
 To tackle the first question first, the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, would seem to make the case that unforeseen events trump the ''great man'' theory of history, meaning that individual presidents matter far less than the times in which they govern. President Bush's supporters argue that his response to the attacks was more far-reaching than the attacks themselves, and that his leadership was more important than the circumstances. 
 Most historians say the man and the event both matter.
 ''Interpreting that is the dilemma that all historians face,'' said Robert A. Caro, who is working on the last book of a four-volume study of the life of President Johnson. ''Events and the individual interact. If you think of history as I do, as an equation with a lot of factors -- economic forces, political forces -- one factor is certainly the personality of the president. Sometimes it's a large factor, sometimes it's a small one, and sometimes it's quite a large factor, as in the case of the guy I'm writing about.''
 Consider whether Al Gore would have marched into Baghdad in March 2003. ''None of us believe we would be fighting in Iraq under a Gore presidency,'' said Fred I. Greenstein, a Princeton professor and the author of ''Personality and Politics.'' 
 ''Certainly we don't believe we'd have the same tax structure. Kerry and Bush will both face Iraq in a similar way, but they'll be night and day on other issues like stem cells.''
 Some historians argue that who is president now matters more than ever in an era of American global dominance and a White House that has steadily amassed power from Congress.
 ''You don't have to subscribe to the great man theory, because it's the 'great president' theory,'' said the historian Robert Dallek, the author of a recent biography of John F. Kennedy. While the 19th century was largely a period of weak presidents who ceded authority to Congress, the years since Theodore Roosevelt have produced increasingly powerful chief executives who have set the agendas at home and waged wars overseas. 
 President Bush's doctrine of pre-emption and the invasion of Iraq have taken those powers to new levels; a president can clearly determine events if his policy is not to wait until events force his hand.
 ''Look at Bush with the Iraq war,'' Mr. Dallek said. ''The Congress was so intimidated.''
 In 1940, said the historian David M. Kennedy, ''it made a whale of a difference that Franklin Roosevelt was president.'' Roosevelt spent years talking reluctant Americans into World War II, and had he not been president, scholars agree that history would have looked very different.
 ''That's a moment when the consequences of personality and the impact of an individual on historical events is really quite large,'' he said. ''But those moments are very rare.''
 Roosevelt, on the other hand, campaigned on a promise to balance the budget, an absurd pledge with the hindsight of World War II. Which brings up the second question: How much attention should voters give to what candidates say on the stump?
 ''Campaign rhetoric is crazy, and people in this country kind of know it,'' Mr. Dallek said. ''They're not stupid. When Kerry says Bush is going to have a draft and they're going to privatize Social Security, it's kind of who can out-flim-flam whom. It's all campaign nonsense.''
 Mr. Kennedy, a Kerry supporter, agrees. ''Frankly, this voter doesn't pay an awful lot of attention to the details of programs,'' he said. ''Which is why when John Kerry says 'I have a plan,' it drives me nuts. The best-laid plans of mice and men -- you know. But I do think the plan is a marker for the values and priorities of the candidates. The plan is an indication of where they would like to go.''
 Still, there is strong historical case to be made that campaign oratory, even of the distorted, hot-headed variety that Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry have employed in the final days of the campaign, opens a window to what a candidate will actually do in the White House.
 In 2000, Mr. Bush campaigned on a promise of large tax cuts that are now law. Johnson produced the array of Great Society legislation he had campaigned on in 1964. In 1860, Abraham Lincoln promised that he would prevent the expansion of slavery to new states.
 ''We should pay attention to heated rhetoric because some of it is predictive of what people are going to do in office,'' Professor Greenstein said. ''And the way it comes out is revealing of character as well.''
 And character, historians say, is what voters should look for in a candidate as they engage in the act of casting their ballots for the nation's next president. ''I don't like people who lie to me,'' said the historian John Morton Blum, who was one of Mr. Bush's professors at Yale. ''But beyond character, there's the matter of adaptability. In a president who is going to offer programmatic and other forms of leadership, you must have the capacity to adapt, often to unforeseen contingencies.''
 Come next week, after all the debates and shouting and position papers, walking into the voting booth and drawing the curtain is ultimately an intimate act of faith and hope, a best, nervous guess for the future judged on what can be known of the past.
 ''This is a case where you have to trust the innate good judgment of the American voter,'' said Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian.
 ''Voters should ask themselves: 'Does his history predict what he's going to do as president? Does he agree with my values?' Oddly enough, when people say they vote on personality, personality is not that you like him because he seems like Johnny Carson. What it really means is 'Do I feel that he shares my values enough that when he makes a decision he'll do the right thing?' ''
 Mr. Beschloss said he would not presume to offer any advice to American voters, but he did have a last encouraging thought.
 ''If you look at American history, there have been rather few cases where the American people made a monumentally bad choice,'' he said. ''Usually, we chose pretty well.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the debates this year, George W. Bush and John Kerry described where they stood and how they would shape the next four years. Yet history teaches that a president's agenda is often driven by outside forces. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); POLITICS (77%); WORLD WAR I (77%); TERRORISM (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); WRITERS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



608 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ENVIRONMENT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: NASA Expert Criticizes Bush On Global Warming Policy

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
A top NASA climate expert who twice briefed Vice President Dick Cheney on global warming plans to criticize the administration's approach to the issue in a lecture at the University of Iowa tonight and say that a senior administration official told him last year not to discuss dangerous consequences of rising temperatures.
 The expert, Dr. James E. Hansen, director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in Manhattan, expects to say that the Bush administration has ignored growing evidence that sea levels could rise significantly unless prompt action is taken to reduce heat-trapping emissions from smokestacks and tailpipes. 
 Many academic scientists, including dozens of Nobel laureates, have been criticizing the administration over its handling of climate change and other complex scientific issues. But Dr. Hansen, first in an interview with The New York Times a week ago and again in his planned lecture today, is the only leading scientist to speak out so publicly while still in the employ of the government. 
 In the talk, Dr. Hansen, who describes himself as ''moderately conservative, middle-of-the-road'' and registered in Pennsylvania as an independent, plans to say that he will vote for Senator John Kerry, while also criticizing some of Mr. Kerry's positions, particularly his pledge to keep nuclear waste out of Nevada.
 He will acknowledge that one of the accolades he has received for his work on climate change is a $250,000 Heinz Award, given in 2001 by a foundation run by Teresa Heinz Kerry, Mr. Kerry's wife. The awards are given to people who advance causes promoted by Senator John Heinz, the Pennsylvania Republican who was Mrs. Heinz Kerry's first husband.
 But in an interview yesterday, Dr. Hansen said he was confident that the award had had ''no impact on my evaluation of the climate problem or on my political leanings.''
 In a draft of the talk, a copy of which Dr. Hansen provided to The Times yesterday, he wrote that President Bush's climate policy, which puts off consideration of binding cuts in such emissions until 2012, was likely to be too little too late.
 Actions to curtail greenhouse-gas emissions ''are not only feasible but make sense for other reasons, including our economic well-being and national security,'' Dr. Hansen wrote. ''Delay of another decade, I argue, is a colossal risk.''
 In the speech, Dr. Hansen also says that last year, after he gave a presentation on the dangers of human-caused, or anthropogenic, climate shifts to Sean O'Keefe, the NASA administrator, ''the administrator interrupted me; he told me that I should not talk about dangerous anthropogenic interference, because we do not know enough or have enough evidence for what would constitute dangerous anthropogenic interference.''
 After conferring with Mr. O'Keefe, Glenn Mahone, the administrator's spokesman, said Mr. O'Keefe had a completely different recollection of the meeting. ''To say the least, Sean is certain that he did not admonish or even suggest that there be a throttling back of research efforts'' by Dr. Hansen or his team, Mr. Mahone said.
 Dr. Franco Einaudi, director of the NASA Earth Sciences Directorate at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., and Dr. Hansen's supervisor, said he was at the meeting between Dr. Hansen and Mr. O'Keefe. Dr. Einaudi confirmed that Mr. O'Keefe had interrupted the presentation to say that these were ''delicate issues'' and there was a lot of uncertainty about them. But, he added: ''Whether it is obvious to take that as an order or not is a question of judgment. Personally, I did not take it as an order.''
 Dr. John H. Marburger III, the science adviser to the president, said he was not privy to any exchanges between Dr. Hansen and the administrator of NASA. But he denied that the White House was playing down the risks posed by climate change. 
 ''President Bush has long recognized the serious implications of climate change, the role of human activity, and our responsibility to reduce emissions,'' Dr. Marburger said in an e-mailed statement. ''He has put forward a series of policy initiatives including a commitment to reduce the greenhouse gas intensity of our economy.''
 In the interview yesterday, Dr. Hansen stood by his assertions and said the administration risked disaster by discouraging scientists from discussing unwelcome findings.
 Dr. Hansen, 63, acknowledged that he imperiled his credibility and perhaps his job by criticizing Mr. Bush's policies in the final days of a tight presidential campaign. He said he decided to speak out after months of deliberation because he was convinced the country needed to change course on climate policy. 
 Dr. Hansen rose to prominence when, after testifying at a Senate hearing in the record-warm summer of 1988, he said, ''It is time to stop waffling so much and say the evidence is pretty strong that the greenhouse effect is here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. James E. Hansen of the Goddard Institute for Space Studies. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%) Weather; Election Issues ; Global Warming; Presidential Election of 2004; Weather

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Goddard Institute for Space Studies

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; James E (Dr) Hansen; Sean (Admr) O'Keefe; Franco (Dr) Einaudi; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John H III (Dr) Marburger; Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



609 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Tries On His Long Coattails for Kerry

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
He looked a little gaunt, his crisp navy suit hanging on a faded frame. He seemed slightly out of breath as he spoke and he tipped back a water bottle as soon as he left the lectern. But he nibbled his lip and bobbed his head with that familiar electricity in his eye, mouthing ''thank you'' to an enormous and adoring crowd that packed downtown streets here Monday at lunchtime. 
 ''From time to time, I have been called the Comeback Kid,'' former President Bill Clinton said, campaigning with Senator John Kerry and making his first public appearance since his quadruple bypass surgery seven weeks ago. ''In eight days, John Kerry's going to make America the Comeback Country.''
 Introduced as ''the last duly elected president of the United States,'' Mr. Clinton stared out at a sea of souls stretching 12 blocks and said, ''If this isn't good for my heart, I don't know what is.'' 
 It was a scene Democrats have been desperate for in the waning weeks of this fiercely fought campaign, but one that Mr. Kerry's predecessor as their presidential nominee, former Vice President Al Gore, had shunned four years ago for fear that outrage over the affair with an intern that led to Mr. Clinton's impeachment would alienate the sought-after swing voters.
 But Mr. Kerry enveloped Mr. Clinton in a bear hug here this afternoon. He and his aides see the former president as able equally to motivate the party's base and to telegraph to undecided voters what the campaign is posing as the essential question of the election: Are you better off now than when President Bush took over the Oval Office? 
 ''He led this nation to the strongest economy we've ever had,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''He expanded health care for millions of children in America. He helped bring our security and the security of the world to the level it ought to be, and he did this by always putting people first and fighting for the middle class.'' 
 Mr. Kerry said he asked Mr. Clinton backstage: '''Mr. President, can you tell me anything that you have in common with George W. Bush?' And he thought for a moment and he said, 'In eight days and 12 hours, we will both be former presidents.'''
 From Philadelphia, where the fire commissioner estimated the crowd topped 80,000, by far the largest for the campaign, Mr. Clinton headed to Florida for solo events Monday and Tuesday, with Nevada and New Mexico on the itinerary at the end of the week if his health holds.
 On the way home to New York on Sunday, Mr. Clinton plans to stop in his native Arkansas, a state President Bush won by more than 5 percentage points in 2000 and where a new poll shows the contest suddenly close. 
 Mr. Clinton's long-awaited return to the campaign trail came after the cancellation of at least 10 rallies over the past two months because of the surgery, but the delay only helped enhance the comeback effect. And if he was less energetic than usual and escaped after shaking just a few hands, at least that shortened the shadow he cast over the less-charismatic Mr. Kerry.
 Just a snippet of Mr. Clinton's perennial theme song, Fleetwood Mac's ''Don't Stop (Thinking About Tomorrow),'' seeped from the speakers as he took the microphone, and it hit the unfortunate lyric, ''Yesterday's gone, yesterday's gone.'' The crowd was covered in Kerry buttons, and screamed, ''We love you, John!'' more often than ''We love you, Bill!'' 
 As Mr. Kerry's anthem, ''No Surrender'' by Bruce Springsteen, blared, the two tall, thin figures whispered together, Mr. Clinton pointing out a person in the front row, Mr. Kerry gesturing to the fans hanging off the balconies of a 10-story apartment building. 
 ''I had quadruple surgery in 1989, I know what it's like what he's doing,'' said Jim Mangine, 59, a telephone technician who took three hours off work to attend the lunchtime rally. ''He looks fantastic. I didn't think he was that handsome -- he's a good-looking guy, and I'm a man. It'll definitely get people off the fence.''
 In Davenport, Iowa, where President Bush was campaigning, Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, said of the spectacle, ''They had to roll Clinton out of the hospital room and onto the campaign trail to help Senator Kerry with his core constituencies that are so weak.'' 
 After the rally, Mr. Clinton introduced Mr. Kerry on a conference call with 2,000 African-American ministers, telling them, ''I know Senator Kerry very well, I think I know his mind and his heart, I have spent both public time and private time with him. And I believe that he has the ability to be a very, very great president.'' 
 On the call, Mr. Kerry made a point of mentioning his opposition to gay marriage, amid concerns by many Democrats that the party was losing support among conservative black Christians over this and other cultural issues. ''So I ask you not to be sidetracked, diverted from the real focus of this race, which is lifting the lives of Americans,'' Mr. Kerry said, according to a transcript circulated by his campaign.
 Aides said the former president and the presidential hopeful shared a heart-healthy lunch of chicken and salad and then Mr. Clinton offered his consummately Clinton take on the state of the race. 
 ''He was clearly well versed in what's happening county by county in Arkansas,'' laughed Mike McCurry, the former Clinton White House press secretary who now works for Mr. Kerry and wore a green tie featuring images of saxophone players in honor of his ex-boss. ''He said a lot of people down there are working hard. He said he thinks they can surprise the other folks down there.''
 Mr. Clinton also gave Mr. Kerry pointers on how to mobilize specific swaths of voters, including Jews and blacks, and ran through electoral math with Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania. On stage, he joked, ''I've been home watching it'' and summed up the campaign by sharing ''one of Clinton's laws of politics.''
 ''If one candidate's trying to scare you and the other one's trying to get you to think,'' he said, ''if one candidate's appealing to your fears and the other one's appealing to your hopes, you better vote for the person who wants you to think and hope.''
 Mr. Clinton's remarks were broadcast live on CNN, which cut away after Mr. Kerry said, ''thank you.'' 
 Mr. Kerry sped through his standard stump speech, editing in references to Mr. Clinton, by name and not. 
 ''Are you ready for a president again who is a champion of the middle class?'' Mr. Kerry asked, adding the ''again'' to his opening line. Speaking about universal health care, he said, ''We are going to end the journey begun by Harry Truman, fought for by Bill Clinton,'' and he made an unusual mention of Mr. Clinton's work to improve labor standards in trade pacts with Jordan and Vietnam.
 Behind him, Mr. Clinton stood with hands clasped behind his back, then let them hang by his side, a bright, open-mouthed smile affixed to his face as he gazed intently at the speaker, then the crowd. He nodded along as they chanted the other man's name, ''Ker-ry, Ker-ry,'' American flags dangling from construction cranes overhead. Afterward, they thrust their fists in the air for the cameras, and Mr. Clinton made a quick exit, leaving Mr. Kerry to work the rope line.
 ''Awww,'' cried Anne DeSalvo, an actress visiting from Los Angeles, as Mr. Clinton disappeared from the viewfinder of her disposable camera before she could get close. 
 ''For me, he represents a time in America where someone really stuck his neck out for the people,'' Ms. DeSalvo explained. ''Some people said he didn't look so good. He lost a little weight, but he looked great. So vibrant. He's adorable!''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry was joined yesterday by former President Bill Clinton at a rally that drew 80,000 people in Philadelphia. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 A sign of support for John Kerry at a rally in Philadelphia. (Photo by Stan Honda/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); CHILDREN (61%); CITIES (56%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (55%) Jodi Wilgoren; Bill Clinton; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Philadelphia (Pa); Florida; Nevada; New Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



610 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's New Campaign Strategy Is Doing the Math

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: WARREN, Mich., Oct. 25 

 BODY:
A year ago, Senator John Kerry's assault on President Bush and his policies was a machine-gun fusillade of adjectives: arrogant, bungling, cynical, ideological, inept, misleading, pathetic, reckless, shameful, stupid and above all, radically wrong.
 Today, it is a bombardment of numbers: health-care costs up 64 percent, college tuition up 35 percent, gas prices up 30 percent, Medicare premiums up 17 percent, prescription drug costs up 12 percent -- ''Wait, there's more,'' Mr. Kerry tells his by-now-restive crowds -- family incomes down $1,500, 1.6 million private-sector jobs lost, five million more Americans without health insurance, four million more in poverty, lost after-school programs for 500,000 children.
 In the homestretch of his presidential campaign, Mr. Kerry has pivoted from raising questions about Mr. Bush's character to trying to add up for voters, in attention-taxing arithmetic, the effects of the president's policies -- and say just how bad four more years of Mr. Bush would be for them. 
 Then he offers a brighter vision. Lifting from Bill Clinton, Barack Obama, and from the George W. Bush of four years ago, Mr. Kerry pleads with audiences in these final days to ''vote your hopes, not your fears,'' to vote for ''an America where we unite people again,'' where there are no red or blue states but only ''one America -- red, white and blue -- for everyone.''
 Mr. Kerry says he wants to put the American dream -- or at least the ability to make ends meet -- once again within reach of ''the great middle class, and the people who are struggling to get into it.''
 He wants, he says, to make health care affordable and to cover every child at birth. To ''make the workplace fair again'' and to stop encouraging companies to send jobs overseas, if not to end outsourcing altogether. To lead America to invent its way out of its oil dependency, to repair its relationships with its allies and to reclaim its position as the world's moral and scientific leader. 
 Ambitious, Mr. Kerry certainly is. But as he reaches out with what he calls ''plain, good old-fashioned common sense,'' he makes his goals sound well within reach. ''We can do this, folks,'' he says again and again, reminding crowds that theirs, after all, is the can-do country that was first in flight and first to the Moon. ''We know how to do this,'' he says of budget balancing and deficit reduction.
 ''This is not complicated,'' he said in Orlando, Fla., last week as he argued that the wealthy and the well-connected, with Mr. Bush's help, were preying on the middle class. ''It really isn't that complicated. The take-home pay of the average American family, as a share of all the national income, is the lowest it has been since 1929. And the take-home pay of the top one-tenth of 1 percent of income-earners is the highest it's been since 1928.''
 ''Something's wrong with that, my friends,'' he shouted, ''and we've got to make it right.''
 Mr. Kerry's speeches sometimes ring with the same outrage he had as a young antiwar protester. While he does not call Mr. Bush a liar (though his audiences do, and loudly), he does promise to ''tell the truth to the American people,'' as if doing so were a new idea.
 His speeches, of course, do not come in a vacuum but in the thick of a running battle with Mr. Bush. And much of what he says is intended to blunt Mr. Bush's attacks.
 While he has dropped most of his references to Vietnam, for example -- including how he knows ''what it's like to carry an M-16 and not know what's around the next corner'' -- he still notes that he ''defended this country as a young man'' and adds, a bit defensively, ''I'll defend it as president of the United States.''
 Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush could not be more different on the stump. While Mr. Bush is still delivering many of the same punch lines he was months ago, Mr. Kerry's change by the hour. And while little changes from day to day in the president's speech except the names of the cities he compliments and the local officials he praises for ''filling the potholes,'' Mr. Kerry has never given his stump speech the same way twice.
 This is partly by design: he is a speechwriter's nightmare, adding needless words and phrases to a prepared text the way some catalog companies bury products in foam peanuts.
 Mr. Kerry works with building blocks, extended chunks of material that he constantly mixes and matches and remolds, as if he feels his listeners deserve not only his full attention but spontaneity to boot. And he is only too glad to provide it, as he did in Orlando, when the wind picked up his sheet of notes and blew it into the crowd. ''That's all right, let it fly,'' he said. ''I don't need it.''
 This is also by inclination: some of his funniest lines are improvised. A month ago, playfully mocking Mr. Bush's economic policy of ''tax relief,'' Mr. Kerry likened it to the kind of relief felt when someone ''breaks into your living room and relieves you of your TV set.'' The audience roared and a new riff was born, though it disappeared a few days later.
 At other times Mr. Kerry's winging it means he is left searching for his place, distracted by his own thoughts, trying to make sure he has covered every subject and said everything he can about each one.
 At this late date, despite the best efforts of his aides to cut his speeches in half, Mr. Kerry struggles to limit himself to 30 minutes; on Friday night, rallying a capacity crowd at a sports arena in Reno, Nev., he outlasted some audience members with a 50-minute stemwinder. He may feel that listeners who waited outside for hours deserve more than rote bullet points, but people still sometimes leave his events before he is done talking.
 Yet at a Democratic rally in Florida the night before the first presidential debate, when a spokesman, David Wade, bet a consultant, Bob Shrum, that Mr. Kerry could keep his remarks to less than 20 minutes, Mr. Wade won the $20 bet with 8 minutes to spare.
 It was very likely the shortest speech of Mr. Kerry's campaign. No footnotes, no long-winded paragraphs; it was as if he were reading just the table of contents of his normal speech. He left his wildly appreciative audience starved for more.
 Mr. Kerry adds and subtracts from his stump speech constantly, sometimes inexplicably. But some sure-fire applause lines show up whenever he holds a microphone: when he vows that ''never again will young Americans in uniform be held hostage to America's dependency on oil from the Middle East''; when he merely utters the words ''stem-cell research''; and when he winds up by telling the unverifiable story of a woman who went to one of his events in Ohio recently.
 Mr. Kerry frequently works into his speeches the names and stories of people he has met along the campaign trail. But this mystery woman had given no name; she had just passed along to a Kerry staff member a simple message for the candidate. ''Senator,'' it said, ''we've got your back.'' 
 If the story is true, it is just as well the woman did not give her name and say what issue or problem motivated her. Because now, as he closes out each speech with her words of encouragement, Mr. Kerry can turn it into a message to every voter.
 ''Here's the deal,'' he said in Orlando. ''You want to do the things we need to do to have clean air and clean water, and leave this earth in better shape to our children than we were given it by our parents? You want to lift this country up? Then give me the privilege on Nov. 2 of being able to stand up, and every day I go to that Oval Office I'll be able to look you in the eye, and I'll say to you, 'I've got your back.' '' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry, at a rally on Saturday in Pueblo, Colo., says the numbers add up to failed Bush policies. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); OUTSOURCING (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); POVERTY RATES (72%); MEDICARE (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (74%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



611 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Voter Guide 2004; THE VOTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Nader Presses On

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
TO his followers, he is the embodiment of political principle, the counterweight to a dishonest two-party system that sneers at minor-party candidates. To his critics, he is an anachronistic, dangerous buttinsky, motivated more by ego than civic good.
 In either case, Ralph Nader is determined again this year to finish what he started, a quixotic run for president that will end uneventfully or, as Democrats fear, catastrophically, costing Senator John Kerry a victory over President Bush just as his run in 2000 helped Mr. Bush defeat Al Gore. 
 Why risk such a political legacy? In Mr. Nader's view, the only risk is sitting idly by as Republicans and Democrats, whom he holds in equal disdain, foist policies on the country that may sound different but flow from the same source, their ties to corporate America.
 ''Our two-party electoral dictatorship, the Democrat-Republican party, works overtime to make sure it has no competition to its surrender of our national government to the big corporations who have turned Washington, D.C., into corporate-occupied territory,'' he said this month in Albany.
 This year, Mr. Nader is one of 200 other candidates challenging Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry, according to filings with the Federal Election Commission. A few are the standard-bearers of recognized third parties, like Michael Badnarik of the Libertarian Party and David Cobb of the Green Party, Mr. Nader's affiliation in 2000, when he won 2.8 million votes, 2.7 percent of all those cast. But most of the others are gadflies or unknowns.
 Mr. Nader is running as an independent, although several third parties have given him their ballot line, including the Reform and, in New York State, the Peace and Justice and Independence Parties.
 Affiliations aside, third-party candidates have struggled in recent years. H. Ross Perot, the Reform Party founder, has performed the best, gaining 19 percent of the vote in 1992 and, according to Republicans, costing President George H. W. Bush re-election.
 In this latest run, Mr. Nader, 70, is driven as much by his left-of-center beliefs as by the cold shoulders from Democratic Party officials and state judges who have hampered his access to ballots and kept him out of debates. So far, he has reached the ballot in 34 states and the District of Columbia, and he continues to resist calls from Democrats to abandon his candidacy, insisting that Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry are siphoning votes from him.
 While his wars against the political establishment are well known, they have obscured the progressive positions that are the hallmark of his 40 years in public life as a consumer advocate and politician.
 Perhaps no issue separates him more from Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry than Iraq. While Mr. Bush promises to keep troops in the country as long as necessary and Mr. Kerry favors expanding the coalition so American troops can leave, Mr. Nader argues for setting a date for withdrawal.
 ''The spiral of violence will not reverse until a dual military and corporate exit strategy is announced,'' he said recently, offering a plan that includes American withdrawal, supervised elections and security forces from Islamic and Arab countries.
 ''U.S. presence serves as a magnet for insurrection, kidnapping, terrorism and anarchy,'' he said. ''Announcing a definite withdrawal and ending the U.S. corporate takeover of the Iraqi economy and oil will separate mainstream Iraqis from the insurgents.''
 Mr. Nader also calls for the elimination of the Patriot Act, to end secret detention and arrests without charges, and to eliminate regulations that allow officials to deny prisoners access to lawyers. Mr. Bush favors renewing the Patriot Act, which expires this year, in its entirety. Mr. Kerry favors renewing most of it.
 Mr. Nader also takes a decidedly progressive view on most domestic issues. He believes in a government-sponsored single-payer health care plan, in which the government finances the system, nonprofit companies deliver services and consumers choose their doctors. Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry favor private companies playing a major role in health care delivery.
 Mr. Nader also supports a large role for the government in education, but not one based on standardized tests, as in Mr. Bush's No Child Left Behind program. Mr. Nader supports free public education through the undergraduate years.
 Asserting that tax policy is unfairly skewed to favor corporations and the wealthy, Mr. Nader supports lowering taxes on necessities like food, clothing, furniture and books, and increasing taxes on alcohol, tobacco, polluting industries, gambling and some luxury items. He also believes investment income like dividends and capital gains should be taxed at the same higher level as earned income.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Nader is running again as an independent this year. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US GREEN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); JUDGES (65%) Presidential Election of 2004; Third-Party Movements (Us); Presidential Election of 2000

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (73%) Michael Janofsky; Ralph Nader; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (55%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



612 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: A Hummer That's Slimmer And Cheaper

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
The Hummer is rumbling down-market. 
 On Wednesday, General Motors will unveil a new Hummer that will be smaller, cheaper and less gas-hungry than its predecessors. 
 The new junior member of the Hummer family, to be called H3, is seen as critical to the survival of a brand that has been treading water this year, as the novelty of the two-year-old Hummer H2 has faded. The H3 is to hit showrooms next spring, a date that could not come soon enough for G.M.'s 167 Hummer dealers, who are facing a sales slump at the same time they are spending millions of dollars to fulfill G.M.'s requirement that Hummers be sold in huge glass and steel Quonset huts. 
 ''The H3 makes that viable,'' said Jim Lynch, a Hummer dealer in the St. Louis area who is in the middle of building one of the new showrooms. He called the H3 an ''extremely important'' vehicle that gave Hummer dealers ''the volume to really be a standalone franchise.''
 At a glance, H3 looks a lot like the Hummer H2, which has become an avatar of American swagger or sinfulness, depending upon whom you ask. But there are significant differences. The H3 is about 17 inches shorter than the H2 bumper to bumper, and about 6 inches less wide and tall. The H3 is expected to approach 20 miles per gallon in highway driving and get about 16 miles per gallon in the city, a G.M. official said. That is better than the roughly 12 miles per gallon that the H2 gets. But it is below the 22 miles per gallon on the highway and the 19 miles per gallon in the city for the average midsize sport utility vehicle, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Not that Hummer is going after the eco-conscious. 
 ''I don't want you to get the idea we're releasing the H3 to get to those people who think the H2 is not fuel efficient,'' said Susan Docherty, Hummer's new general manager. Rather, H3's lower price will bring the vehicle to a vastly larger market. The sport utility vehicle is expected to start from $30,000 to $40,000, compared with the H2, which starts at just under $50,000, and the H1, which starts around $100,000. G.M. envisions selling more H3 S.U.V.'s than the combined volume of both of its predecessors and hopes for sales of more than 40,000 Hummers next year, up from about 20,000 this year. 
 ''It allows 20- and 30-somethings to get into the brand,'' Ms. Docherty said, adding, ''what we found with the H2 is that there are a lot of customers that aspire to be in the brand, but it was out of people's reach.'' 
 Hummer sales are down 20 percent this year, through September, and the recent introduction of a pickup truck version of the H2, the Hummer H2 SUT, has not done much to help sales. G.M. makes Hummer as a joint venture with AM General, a privately held company that also manufactures the military Humvee. G.M. recently cut one of the two production shifts at AM General's Hummer plant near South Bend, Ind., scaling back production to about 30,000 Hummer H2's a year -- below the 40,000 vehicles the company had once envisioned. 
 Hummer has also become a symbol of America's love affair with large gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s. The Sierra Club operates www.hummerdinger.com, which is among the Web sites devoted to criticizing the brand, and another site, whose name cannot be printed here, has more than 1,000 pictures of people giving the Hummer H2 an obscene gesture.
 ''This brand, even from its inception, has been very polarizing,'' said Ms. Docherty, who took over as Hummer's manager in August after having led the marketing of the Cadillac Escalade S.U.V. ''I don't think that's all bad. I know what the brand represents. My job is to make sure that we meet the needs of customers in the segments we go into.''
 Rising fuel prices have probably not helped the Hummer -- poor gas mileage has been one of the top complaints of Hummer drivers, according to J.D. Power & Associates. But most analysts say that Hummer's main problem is not gas prices but that its bold design made it a vehicle that had a hot debut only to cool off, a pattern seen before with other flashy designs like the PT Cruiser by DaimlerChrysler. 
 ''My own feeling is that the fad is beginning to wear off,'' said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities. ''When you have a unique vehicle, the novelty tends to wear off fairly quickly so you have to keep variety coming to keep volume up.''
 Sales next year could also be hurt by a recent move in Congress to curb a tax deduction that allows small-business owners to deduct up to $100,000 immediately for only the largest and least fuel-efficient sport utility vehicles, including Hummers. The deduction is now capped at $25,000, which is still considerably higher than small-business deductions available for cars and smaller S.U.V.'s. 
 G.M. is also working to soften Hummer's public image. Last week, the company showed a new prototype called the Hummer H2H, a Hummer powered by a hydrogen fuel cell that will be on loan to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, the first civilian to buy a Humvee, long before the retail Hummer brand was created. 
 ''Californians invent the future and the H2H shows that a vehicle of today can run on the fuel of tomorrow,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said in a statement last week. During the state's recall election, Mr. Schwarzenegger promised to get a Hummer outfitted to run on hydrogen. 
 Ms. Docherty said the H2H, which has about a 50-mile range before it needs refueling, ''is at the governor's disposal.'' 
 What's next for Hummer?
 Ms. Docherty would not say, though she seemed to be suggesting a more conventional pickup truck, saying that a recent prototype Hummer pickup made by G.M. ''seemed like a logical place'' for the brand. 
 ''There are territories that Hummer could occupy and there are territories Hummer should never occupy,'' she said. ''We're never going to have a minivan or a small car.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The new H3, left, is smaller than the H2, inset, and comparable to a midsize sport utility vehicle. Chart: ''The New Hummer On the Block''H3LENGTH -- 15 ft. 6 in.WIDTH -- 6 ft. 3 in.HEIGHT -- 6 ft. 3 in.WHEELBASE -- 9 ft. 4 in.WEIGHT -- 4,700 lbs.MILES PER GALLON -- 16 city/20 highwayH2LENGTH -- 17 ft.WIDTH -- 6 ft. 9 in.HEIGHT -- 6 ft. 7 in.*WHEELBASE -- 10 ft. 1 in.WEIGHT -- 6,400 lbs.MILES PER GALLON -- 12*Without roof rack.Numbers are estimated. The H2 is exempt from government fuel economy standards
 the H3 has not been tested yet.(Source by General Motors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (50%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Hummer (High Mobility Multipurpose Vehicle); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



613 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Ballet Theater Trims Costs, Trying to Keep the Cuts Offstage

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
American Ballet Theater is freezing pay, cutting positions and canceling tour performances in a wave of cost-cutting measures that it says are putting the company back on the road to financial health.
 About 50 staff members will take a one-week furlough without pay, and many will not receive raises this year. Thanksgiving-week performances at the Orange County Performing Arts Center in California were canceled because of the high cost of putting on shows during a holiday. And the company's general manager was dismissed in a move that the troupe said was among cost-saving measures imposed even as the company has grown in dancers, number of performances and time spent touring. 
 Officials say their actions have improved the bottom line without sacrificing artistic quality at the New York-based institution, one of the country's premier dance companies.
 ''When everybody else was tightening their belts, we were expanding,'' said the artistic director, Kevin McKenzie. ''Now it's time to deal with the sustainability issue.'' In fact, he said, the investment in the artistic side -- 8 more dancers, to 90, in the company; three weeks of performances at City Center instead of two; and more touring -- have only helped ticket sales.
 Meanwhile, a chronic budget deficit dropped from $1.3 million to ''well under'' $1 million for the fiscal year that ended in July, said Rachel Pivnick, the chief financial officer, although the company declined to release financial figures. This fiscal year should show a slight surplus, she said. The operating budget is $38.5 million, up 1 percent, but it includes two more weeks of work, to 38.
 The company said ticket sales at the City Center series had increased by 18 percent; dancers ratified a contract this month with a 12 percent raise over three years; and a $1 million line of credit has been paid off.
 ''We are doing extremely well,'' said the executive director, Rachel S. Moore. ''We built a budget that is aimed at being sustainable for the future. Like every nonprofit organization, certainly every cultural institution, we have our fund-raising challenges. We feel we are being proactive about the future.''
 But the company's hopes to increase its endowment have fallen short. When Lewis S. Ranieri started as chairman, he vowed to increase the endowment to $30 million by the end of his three-year term, which is this season. The company said its endowment at the end of the last fiscal year, in July, stood at about $6.6 million in hand with about $4.4 million more pledged.
 Mr. Ranieri did not return phone calls, but Ms. Pivnick said, ''I think that we're doing very well with the endowment.''
 The company has faced sharp criticism from former board members, who question whether it has grown too dependent on Mr. Ranieri, an investment banker who has poured his own money into the company. The critics have also accused the company of mismanagement. It went through three executive directors since 2001 before Ms. Moore arrived in April to end a 10-month gap.
 ''Whatever internal move we make is going to be scrutinized, because there are still disgruntled people who are angry with us,'' said Kelly Ryan, a spokeswoman for the company. ''That's really disheartening.''
 In an attempt to wean the company away from dependence on Mr. Ranieri's largesse, the board members recently committed themselves to raising $1.5 million to reduce his contribution by that amount, Ms. Pivnick said.
 Ballet Theater attracts some of the most well-heeled New Yorkers to its board, and the opening gala at City Center on Oct. 20 was a glittering affair that drew cheers for some of the world's great dancers, including Alessandra Ferri, Herman Cornejo and Angel Corella. 
 But Ballet Theater has good company when it comes to financial challenges. The entire dance world struggles for money, and many companies often live on the edge. Dance Theater of Harlem, for example, recently furloughed its dancers and closed its school because of financial and insurance problems.
 Mitchell Korn, an arts consultant, said the revolving door of executive directors at Ballet Theater was ''part of the problem'' behind its financial situation. ''But to be fair, there really isn't a cultural organization in this nation that's not suffering,'' he said. Mr. Korn had been advising the company until June, when he was let go. The company, he said, told him it was a cost-saving measure.
 Nancy Fleeter, the general manager, and her $175,000 salary were also dispatched in June, to save money, according to Ballet Theater. Her duties were divided among four other people. Ms. Fleeter was upset to have lost her job just several months after undergoing treatment for cancer, said two of her acquaintances, who are familiar with the company and spoke on condition of anonymity. Ms. Fleeter said she could not discuss the matter, citing a confidentiality agreement, and Ballet Theater officials also declined to comment. 
 In another move that raised eyebrows, Ballet Theater canceled its visit to Orange County, Calif., from Nov. 23 to 28 -- dates the company had requested -- after Ms. Moore took over as executive director. Ms. Ryan, the spokeswoman, said that once the company started looking into planning the trip, the Thanksgiving holiday just made it too expensive.
 ''We didn't really think it was fiscally responsible,'' Ms. Ryan said, adding that the booking ''was perhaps not a wise decision.''
 Management said it had managed to pare away just over $1 million in expenses with cuts that also include a reduction in education programs, not filling a lower-level position and economizing on several ballets -- a move that includes renting productions of ''Polovtsian Dances'' and ''Petrouchka'' and using refurbished costumes for ''Les Sylphides.''
 Mr. McKenzie said scaling back from grand plans for original productions was normal in the ballet world. ''What we wouldn't consider is not doing the program,'' he said, ''or having it look shabby.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE COMPANIES (91%); DANCERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BALLET (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); THANKSGIVING (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%) Dancing; Finances; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (94%) American Ballet Theater 

PERSON: LEW RANIERI (57%) Rachel Pivnick; Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



614 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Voices of Freedom Are Stilled by Europe's Last Dictator

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MINSK, Belarus, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
By this time in the college semester, Marina Puzdrova should be making her way from class to class in the drab brick building on Brovka Street. Her university has been shuttered, though, its students and professors dispersed by the authoritarian whim of this country's president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko.
 Miss Puzdrova, 19, would have a been a second-year student at the European Humanities University, which since its creation in 1992 has been an outpost of liberal education in an increasingly illiberal place. It was, therefore, a threat to the new state ideology that Mr. Lukashenko is steadily building. 
 Although offered a place at Belarus State University, she and two philosophy classmates, like others at the university, plan to leave Belarus instead, continuing their studies in the Czech Republic.
 ''There,'' she said, ''we hope to find some more personal freedom.''
 On Oct. 17, Belarus held a constitutional referendum that gave Mr. Lukashenko the right to seek unlimited terms in office. The vote, denounced as illegitimate by political opponents and international observers, consolidated political power in what is already considered to be Europe's last dictatorship.
 Like the other nations that emerged from the collapse of the Soviet Union 13 years ago, this country of 10 million initially embraced its independence, only to have its democratic hopes fade along with Mr. Lukashenko's rise to power. Although Mr. Lukashenko was first elected in 1994 with a populist mandate to fight corruption and restore stability, the country has become one of the most repressive of the former Soviet republics.
 Mr. Lukashenko's control extends far beyond politics. In 10 years in power, he has increased his sway over business, news media, civic organizations and schools -- in short, over anyone or anything that might challenge him.
 Journalists have been charged with criticizing the president, a crime punishable by fines, internal exile and up to four years in prison. What few private businesses exist -- nearly 80 percent of the country's economy remains in state hands -- have faced prosecution based on what critics call the slimmest pretenses.
 Private organizations have likewise been closed or harassed by the authorities, especially those that have received financial support from Europe or the United States, which Mr. Lukashenko regularly denounces in language reminiscent of the cold war.
 The Belarussian Helsinki Committee, the local chapter of the international human rights organization, has since August 2003 faced a prosecutorial assault for, among other things, failing to use quotation marks around its name on official stationary.
 ''We think it cannot be worse,'' Tatsiyana Pratsko, the committee's president, said in an interview in her small office. ''And it becomes worse.''
 The United States and the European Union have increased their own pressure on Belarus, including a ban on travel to their countries by Mr. Lukashenko and other senior leaders suspected of involvement in the disappearances of political opponents in 1999 and 2000. Mr. Lukashenko has responded by strengthening his grip and intensifying his attacks on those he considers agents of the West.
 Mr. Lukashenko, a former collective farm boss, has not only retained aspects of Soviet economics but has also moved to recreate the structures that allowed the Soviet Union to maintain order over society.
 He issued a decree two years ago that required government agencies, factories and schools to hold ''political information'' meetings, like those once conducted by the Communists. Last year he created the Belarussian Union of Youth, which, like its Soviet-era inspiration, Komsomol, is a prerequisite to acquiring positions in the university or jobs. He has also established an official ideology, which remains ill-defined though it revolves around the unquestioned power of the presidency.
 The government's campaign against the European Humanities University is typical of Mr. Lukashenko's operations. In April, the Education Ministry issued an order outlining 26 ways that classes and activities should be regulated in the country's universities. They included restrictions on money from abroad, as well as on exchange programs. One measure called for monitoring of ''the moral-psychological climate'' in student dorms.
 In such a climate, it was clear that the European Humanities University would become a target.
 The university was established in the first heady days of Belarussian independence by a group of professors and the Belarussian Orthodox Church, which created its first department of theology. The concept was to create a private institution modeled on universities in Britain and the United States. It began with 67 students, but grew to nearly 1,000.
 ''People with free thought were formed here,'' said Grigor Y. Miniankov, the dean of the university's philosophy department. ''They learned critical thinking. People like that are not wanted here.''
 In January, the country's education minister, Aleksandr Radkov, called for the resignation of the rector, Anatoly Mikhailov, who refused to go. In July, Mr. Lukashenko's administration ordered the university evicted from its rented building on Brovka Street. A week later the Education Ministry revoked its license, citing, in a Kafkaesque twist, its lack of space for classes.
 Mr. Lukashenko made his motive clear in a speech last month, denouncing the university's educational mission as subversive.
 ''There was an implicit, though focal, intention to train here in Belarus, in the European Humanities University, first of all, the new Belarussian elite, aimed at leading Belarus to the West when the time is appropriate,'' Mr. Lukashenko said.
 ''And what about other Belarussian universities, located in Brest, Vitebsk, Gomel and Mogilev, not speaking about other leading universities in Minsk?'' he went on, according to a transcript published in the official newspaper Soviet Belarus. ''Whom are they training? Servants and slaves for this very new elite?''
 The Humanities University is struggling to stay alive in a virtual state. Dozens of students have transferred to universities in Europe and the United States that have agreed to recognize credits already earned. Dr. Mikhailov has left the country, accepting a position at the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies at Harvard.
 Vladimir Dounaev, the vice rector, said classes would continue online.
 ''It is very difficult to close a concept,'' he said. ''We are living not in the era of Brezhnev, but of the Internet.''
 In 2003, the government closed a high school with a similar mission. The school, the Humanities Lycee, now operates underground, conducting classes secretly in apartments, one step ahead of the authorities. 
 The school's students -- now down to fewer than 100 -- continue to study, knowing their diplomas will not be recognized by the state. 
 Irina I. Sidorenko, the school's deputy director, said the parents of many students had received threats of punishment. 
 ''We feel ourselves hanging in the air, not knowing if we can survive another month,'' she said. ''One can only feel sorry for our society.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Classes meet secretly in apartments since the Belarus government closed the Humanities Lycee in 2003 in a crackdown by President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko on institutions perceived as a threat to his rule. (Photographs by Yuri Ivanov for The New York Times)Map of Belarus highlighting Minsk: Tatsiyana Pratsko, president of a human rights group in Minsk, has faced an assault by prosecutors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); COLD WAR (72%); CORRUPTION (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%) Freedom and Human Rights; Elections; Referendums; Politics and Government; Colleges and Universities; Freedom and Human Rights; News and News Media; Freedom of the Press; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: European Humanities University (Belarus)

PERSON: Aleksandr G (Pres) Lukashenko; Steven Lee Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (98%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Belarus; Belarus

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



615 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Led Naval Exercise Sends Clear Message to North Korea

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: ABOARD THE PATROL BOAT IZU, off Japan, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Orange smoke flares burned in waters south of Tokyo Bay as black-clad sailors rappelled Tuesday from a Japan Coast Guard helicopter, landing on the foredeck of a ship adorned with a skull-and-crossbones flag.
 While seven television camera crews filmed from a Japan Coast Guard patrol boat, warships from the United States, France and Australia closed in on the ''pirate'' ship carrying ''sarin'' poison gas. Part training exercise, part political theater, this international naval interdiction drill, code-named Team Samurai, had a clear audience: North Korea.
 ''We are sending a signal to everybody who wants to traffic weapons of mass destruction that we have zero tolerance for that,'' John R. Bolton, the American under secretary of state for arms control and international security, told reporters on the Japanese Coast Guard patrol boat Izu. 
 Mr. Bolton, an outspoken critic of North Korea, is among those being mentioned as a contender for national security adviser in a second Bush administration. The exercise, featuring nine ships, seven helicopters and several speed boats filled with commandos, may offer a taste of a future, more hard-line American policy toward Pyongyang.
 Mr. Bolton is the architect of the Proliferation Security Initiative, a 15-month-old loose coalition of 60 countries working to curb trafficking in materials for unconventional weapons and their delivery systems.
 The exercise here is the 12th group drill, but the first one attended by Mr. Bolton and the first held in North Korea's vicinity. Although planned months ago, the three-day exercise, which is held by Japan and ends Wednesday, seems to hint of a greater American emphasis on sanctions against Pyongyang if President Bush is re-elected.
 While documents relating to the drill made no mention of North Korea, about 600 miles west of here, Mr. Bolton had no such compunctions in an interview.
 ''There is no doubt that North Korea is the pre-eminent proliferator of ballistic missile technology,'' Mr. Bolton said in the officers' mess. ''The currency it earns from weapons and drug sales internationally goes to financing their nuclear weapons program.'' 
 Asked what would be Washington's ''red line'' for Pyongyang, he responded: ''Our concern is that North Korea is not simply a threat in the region, but its propensity to proliferate weapons of mass destruction technology means that, if they had a potential buyer in the nuclear field, they would sell it.'' 
 Sanctions are the stick that Washington wields to push North Korea to participate in six-nation talks aimed at dismantling its nuclear weapons program and to draw the Communist nation into the world community. In threatening sanctions, the United States has an ally in Japan, a nation still seething over disclosures two years ago that North Korea kidnapped dozens of Japanese in the 1970's. 
 ''A time limit is necessary at some point, and we must consider such options as sanctions,'' Japan's new foreign minister, Nobutaka Machimura, told Japan's business daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun last week. With North Korea unwilling to account for the kidnapped Japanese and Japan unwilling to drop the issue, economic relations between Northeast Asia's richest nation and its poorest are going from bad to worse. 
 During the first eight months of this year, Japan's trade with North Korea has dropped to $155 million, 17 percent the level of the comparable period last year. Even without sanctions, North Korea fell this year to 98th place in the rank of Japan's worldwide exports.
 On Monday, North Korea reacted angrily to Japan's hosting the American-led naval drill, denouncing it as a dress rehearsal for economic sanctions.
 ''It is quite clear that the exercise is designed to lay a siege to the D.P.R.K. and stifle it, come what may,'' Pyongyang's official news agency said Monday, referring to the initials of the country's formal name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. ''This is a serious infringement upon the sovereignty of the D.P.R.K. and an intolerable military provocation to it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); HELICOPTERS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) James Brooke; John R (Under Sec) Bolton

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (88%) North Korea; Japan; Australia

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



616 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Grad School's International Glow Is Dimmed by Security Concerns

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
WHEN the World Cup soccer tournament reached the quarterfinal round in the late spring of 2002, Prof. Paul Alivisatos noticed a particularly fervent interest among his doctoral students in chemistry at the University of California. He eventually realized why. Of the eight countries competing, countries stretching around the globe from Brazil to Turkey to South Korea, Professor Alivisatos had a protege from every one except Senegal.
 The coincidence bespoke more than the polyglot nature of Berkeley's campus. It attested, too, to the reliance of research universities on foreign-born graduate students, especially in sciences, mathematics and engineering. That reliance, in turn, is shared by America's high-technology companies, including those within an hour of here in the Silicon Valley. 
 Yet at the very time Professor Alivisatos was exulting in the international flavor of his university, that trait was coming under assault as a result of heightened border controls in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in the United States. Those soccer fans all had entered Berkeley before Sept. 11, 2001. Some had received their visas on the day they were interviewed in American consulates, most within a week or so.
 By now, three classes later, Berkeley has seen its enrollment of graduate students from abroad drop by one-third. A national survey by the Council of Graduate Schools determined that admissions of international students at 125 universities fell by an average of 18 percent in the last year alone. Both the Berkeley and national studies found that the students most affected were not only those from Islamic countries, but from China, as well as such American allies as India, South Korea and Israel.
 ''Nobody wants to be the person who stamps the visa for the next Mohammed Atta,'' Professor Alivisatos put it. ''But we'll never know who it was who refused a visa for the next Einstein.''
 Joseph Duggan, the associate dean of the graduate division, said: ''I've been on the faculty for 40 years, and in the administration for 18, and until now there's never been a time when there's been pressure from the federal government not to admit graduate students. We know there's a security problem to be dealt with. We just wish it could be dealt with in a more focused way.''
 The Bush administration maintains that the total number of international students at all grade levels has risen to 640,000 now from 580,000 two years ago, although it does not have figures specifically for graduate students. Russ Knocke, the director of public affairs for immigration and customs enforcement in the Department of Homeland Security, also said that since August 2003, about 2,800 international students have been investigated and 381 arrested for immigration violations, criminal activities or national security threats.
 ''Our system is allowing in the foreign students who deserve to be here,'' he said, ''and it's weeding out the ones who don't.''
 That viewpoint certainly is not shared in Berkeley, where the increased scrutiny has affected many facets of academic life. Of those graduate students who did ultimately obtain visas, more than half experienced significant delays at embassies, consulates and border crossings. Hundreds had to postpone their arrival for classes or change their research plans. Parents of international students have been denied visas to attend commencement ceremonies. Faculty members like Professor Alivisatos found few foreign students willing to attend academic meetings and conferences outside the United States for fear they would not be readmitted.
 Such a fear is hardly hyperbolic. In the summer of 2003, a Berkeley chemistry student, Xuesong Li, went home to China to visit his family. During the months of waiting for the American consulate to issue him a visa to return, his doctoral adviser in Berkeley dropped him from a research project rather than abandon it. As a consequence, Mr. Li lost his right to come back to the United States and finish his degree.
 WITH that cautionary tale in mind, one of Mr. Li's classmates, Haitao Liu, traveled to China last summer to attend to his severely ill father. It took the American consulate in Shanghai five weeks to grant him a visa -- the same visa he had gotten in 30 minutes when first entering graduate school in the summer of 2001. Only because Mr. Liu's adviser, Professor Alivisatos, held his place on a research project was the graduate student able to return at all. Mr. Liu's wife, also a doctoral candidate in chemistry, was so shaken by his experience that she has not dared visit family in China.
 The impact of homeland security on graduate education affects far more than academic life. America does not produce enough doctoral candidates in the sciences and related fields to meet its own needs; while international students form 18 percent of Berkeley's entire graduate division, they have accounted for 34 percent of doctorates awarded in math and engineering over the last five years. 
 Almost half of those international students remain in the United States after receiving their degrees, a coveted talent pool for private industry. Professor Alivisatos's recent graduates have gone on to high-tech start-ups such as QuantumDot, which produces biomedical imaging, and Nanosys, which develops low-cost solar cells. 
 Immigrants have founded one-third of the new technology companies in the region, said R. Sean Randolph, president of the Bay Area Economic Forum, a public policy organization.
 Now, however, the biggest drop in admissions nationally has taken place in engineering and the sciences, according to the Council of Graduate Schools. The rate of applications is falling even faster, a sign that talented students are seeking admission to graduate programs outside the United States.
 ''The long-term effect is very significant,'' Mr. Randolph said. ''If the overseas students go to graduate school in England or Western Europe, the American economy won't be capturing their benefit. And if you play that out over a period of years, it has some real consequences for our competitiveness.''
 It all adds up to a weird contradiction -- an America that is fighting a global war and simultaneously retreating into isolationism. 
 ''My opinion, this policy is just what bin Laden wants,'' said Mr. Liu, a doctoral candidate in chemistry at Berkeley. ''If America closes the door to the world, that's what the bad guys want.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); RELIGION (50%) Colleges and Universities; Terrorism; Science and Technology; Mathematics; Security and Warning Systems; Foreign Study, Teaching and Travel; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

PERSON: Samuel G Freedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



617 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Cars; GREEN AND COMFY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Green de Luxe

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
THE hybrid is about to enter the latte generation's comfort zone.
 By April, Toyota will start selling the Lexus RX400h, a sport utility vehicle that gets compact-car gas mileage.
 The RX400h is a far cry from the Honda Insight, the tiny aluminum two-seater that was the first hybrid electric vehicle sold in the United States. Heated leather seats? Check. Navigation system? Check. Gasoline engine? Check. Electric motor? Check. Waiting list? Check, and then some. 
 It took three weeks for Lawrence Chestnut, a consultant who travels the world installing software for telephone networks, including a recent stint in Baghdad, to find a Lexus dealer in the Baltimore area who would even let him add his name to a list.
 It is not that Mr. Chestnut, who is 50, sees himself as an ardent environmentalist or even as a hybrid kind of guy. He's a Lexus person, who wouldn't mind visiting the gas station less often. 
 ''I'm, let's say, halfway successful, but I can say, 'Don't blame me for having a luxury car because it also saves more miles,' '' Mr. Chestnut said. ''Now I can have my cake and eat it, too, and I like that.''
 If he can get a Lexus RX400h, that is. The line is getting longer, with 9,000 people having already deposited $1,000 to reserve the car. Given that Toyota is expected to build about 20,000 to 30,000 of the Lexus hybrids annually, waiting lists could pile up further, as they have for the company's original hybrid, the Prius, which now takes about six months to get to many buyers. 
 When Toyota and Honda first introduced hybrids a half-decade ago, the buyers were often committed environmentalists or technophiles, in either case taking a chance on an unproven technology that could increase fuel economy by 40 percent or more.
 Now, though, the hybrid market is entering a second, more mainstream phase, expanding beyond Toyota and Honda and just small cars. A variety of pressures are encouraging the trend: gas prices that have soared and seem likely to stay high; new regulations in California that may be copied by other states, with tough new emissions standards; and glimmers of a change from the ever-bigger mind-set of consumers that produced such behemoths as the three-to-four-ton Ford Excursion in the 90's.
 Add those heated leather seats, and the combination of comfort and conscience may not be that tough a sell, especially for people who want to spend Lexus money.
 ''I think the 400h will be the beginning of taking the hybrid and plotting it all over the demographic map versus what we've seen so far,'' said Lindsay Brooke, senior analyst of CSM Worldwide, adding that automakers have planned 20 new hybrid models by the 2007 model year.
 ''The market is growing beyond -- I don't want to use a stereotype -- that basic kind of tree-hugger person,'' Mr. Brooke said. ''Once you have pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s and minivans, there will be a hybrid for everybody.''
 Daniel Becker, the top global-warming expert at the Sierra Club, said, ''There are lots of people who are lined up to buy a hybrid sedan, but there are also people who don't want a sedan.
 ''They want a luxury S.U.V., so it's good they'll be able to buy one that's dramatically more efficient rather than the gas guzzler they'd be buying otherwise,'' he added. 
 The selection of new hybrids is about to get crowded. Next year, Toyota will start selling a hybrid version of its Highlander S.U.V. in addition to the Lexus RX400h. Honda now sells two hybrids, including a version of its Civic, and a hybrid Accord will follow in December. Ford has started selling a hybrid version of its Escape S.U.V., while General Motors and DaimlerChrysler are offering limited numbers of pickup trucks with what's come to be known as a mild form of hybrid technology.
 Hybrids use electric power to save gas, though automakers offer different versions of the technology. Roughly speaking, Toyota and Ford have systems where an electric motor actually takes over for the internal combustion engine at slow speeds and stops. Honda's hybrids have an electric motor that helps the internal combustion engine but does not actually power the vehicle fully. 
 Both sets of hybrids also save energy that is usually lost when the brakes are used. The Toyota, Honda and Ford hybrids increase fuel economy by 40 percent or more. Milder forms of the technology, offered in a small number of pickups sold by G.M. and DaimlerChrysler, save roughly 10 percent or more. 
 The Lexus will have amenities that are already available in the RX330, including a camera in the back, outside the car, which displays a rear view on the dashboard monitor that is used for the navigation system. And it will use the hybrid system not just for fuel efficiency, but also for increasing performance, thus creating what the company calls an ''electric supercharger,'' with 270 horsepower, about 20 percent more than the Lexus RX330. 
 Toyota has not said how much the RX400h will cost, but the RX330 starts around $37,000, and the 400h is expected to be about $3,000 to $4,000 more expensive. For many customers, it will be their first hybrid.
 ''We're not rabid environmentalists or anything; we just want to save a little money'' on gas, said Annie Walker, 49, a registered nurse who lives in Gig Harbor, Wash. She and her husband John, a 59-year-old retired Air Force pilot, put a $1,000 deposit down for the Lexus hybrid last December, more than a year before it will hit showrooms. 
 ''I'm on the waiting list and I think I'm No. 1 for my salesperson in my local dealership,'' Ms. Walker said, adding, ''I just talked to my dealer this week, and he said they stopped taking orders.''
 Ms. Walker called the Prius ''ugly'' and said that she and her husband were drawn to the RX400h at a Lexus event where customers were encouraged to compare Lexus models with competing luxury cars from BMW and other brands.
 ''We recycle, we're not ostentatious,'' Ms. Walker said. ''We don't have any kids but a couple big dogs, goldens, and we want to be able to haul them around.''
 Mr. Chestnut, who was reached through the car research site Edmunds.com, said he first shopped for the Lexus RX330 before he learned about the hybrid version. 
 ''Gas prices are going up,'' he said. ''I liked the idea of better mileage because I'm a traveler and the price is only $2,000 to $3,000 more than the 330.'' 
 Toyota executives said they had already seen demographics shifting considerably since they first started selling the Prius in 2000. At first, buyers were overwhelmingly male, with an annual median household income of roughly $100,000. They were also brainy: 80 percent had some education beyond an undergraduate degree. 
 By 2002, less than half of Prius buyers had postgraduate work, women made up just more than half of buyers and income declined to $80,000.
 ''I think our initial experience was that it was people concerned about the environment and fond of technology,'' said Ernest Bastien, vice president of Toyota's vehicle operations group. 
 ''It's probably more gender neutral now, and the buyer looks similar to what a buyer might look like for a Camry or a Corolla. I don't think there's any anxiety in regards to the reliability of the technology.''
 With volume reaching more than 100,000 vehicles this year, hybrids remain a fraction of the roughly 17 million cars, S.U.V.'s, minivans and pickup trucks bought last year. But demand has been a function of how many Toyota and Honda have produced. Next year, Toyota plans to double its Prius volume in the United States to 100,000 vehicles. 
 For more than a century, the auto industry has been searching for alternatives to the gas-fueled internal combustion engine. Most notable has been the industry's quest, since the days of Thomas Edison, to perfect the purely electric-powered car, which has faltered because it takes too long to charge and runs out of juice too quickly. 
 Toyota and Honda have marketed hybrids for their normalcy, emphasizing that they do not need to be plugged in. 
 ''I can put gas in it and drive it like a regular car,'' said Ivan Talley, a 43-year-old computer consultant in Austin, Tex., who recently bought a Prius. ''I think that's important. A lot of people are just looking for a car.''
 Mr. Talley, whose last car was a Mazda pickup truck, decided he wanted better gas mileage for his commute, so he visited a Toyota dealership for the first time. But he was not looking for a hybrid. ''I went in looking for an Avalon,'' he said, referring to Toyota's large sedan, which he had read about in Consumer Reports. ''I'm 6-foot-3, 259 pounds, so I was looking for something that was a little more comfortable.''
 The Prius was redesigned last year and made larger, to a midsize hatchback. 
 Incentives to buy hybrids have received help from Congress, which recently extended and increased tax deductions for hybrid cars from $1,500 to $2,000, offsetting the approximately $3,000 premium many carry over similar conventional vehicles.
 Many people think they can make up higher up-front costs by saving at the gas pump.
 ''I lived in Europe so long and prices were already $5 and $6 a gallon, but prices are so high now for the United States,'' Mr. Chestnut said. ''I think prices will keep going up.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HYBRID FANS -- Lawrence Chestnut, above left, signs an agreement for a Lexus RX400h as Robert Schulman, a salesman, looks on. Ivan Talley, above, with his Toyota Prius. (Photo by Frank Curry for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. G16)Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SALES & SELLING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (60%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Consumer Behavior; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



618 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: REBELS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Allawi Blames 'Negligence' by U.S.-Led Force for Ambush Deaths of 49 Iraqi Soldiers

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ayad Allawi blamed the American-led military forces on Tuesday for the weekend massacre of 49 freshly trained Iraqi soldiers, saying the military had shown ''major negligence.''
 In a speech before the interim National Assembly, the prime minister said a committee had begun investigating the ambush, the deadliest of the guerrilla war. The assault took place Saturday night in remote eastern Iraq, as three minibuses of unarmed Iraqi soldiers were heading south on leave. Insurgents dressed as policemen waylaid the men at a fake checkpoint, killed all 49 soldiers and their three civilian drivers, mostly with shots to their heads, and burned the vehicles. 
 ''I think there was major negligence by the multinational forces,'' Dr. Allawi said before the 100-member assembly. ''It was a way to damage Iraq and the Iraqi people.''
 The massacre took place in an area of the country under the command of Polish forces. 
 Dr. Allawi did not elaborate on his statement, and his aides could not be reached by phone for further comment. The prime minister's lacerating words marked the first time he has publicly criticized the American-led forces, disclosing his profound frustration at the assault and perhaps the deteriorating security situation as well.
 The American military defended itself in a statement released Tuesday evening. ''This was a cold-blooded and systematic massacre by terrorists,'' the statement read. ''They and no one else must be held fully accountable for these heinous acts.'' 
 An American military official said the ambushed soldiers were members of the 16th Iraqi Army Battalion, Seventh Iraqi Army Brigade, and not of the Iraqi National Guard, as had been widely reported. They had left the main Iraqi Army training base in Kirkush, northeast of Baghdad, about 15 miles from the Iranian border. They were ambushed on an isolated road southeast of Baghdad, he said, not far from the border. 
 The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said officers in his United States Army division, which has trained Iraqi national guardsmen, were baffled by the utter lack of protection given the Iraqi soldiers. He said when Iraqi guardsmen under his division's watch go on leave, they are sent off in armored convoys bristling with heavy guns. ''We provide the gun trucks and protection, like when we go out ourselves,'' he said.
 ''There's a lot of people stunned by this,'' he added. ''There's a lot of people scratching their heads. It's a strange one.''
 Capt. Steven Alvarez, a spokesman for Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, whose command includes the Kirkush base, said in an e-mail message that the general was deferring all comment to the main military press office.
 The relentless assault on Iraqi security forces continued Tuesday, as a militant group called the Army of Ansar al-Sunna posted photos on the Internet showing that it had captured 11 Iraqi security officers. A message on the Web site said the insurgents had snatched the ''infidels'' of the ''crusaders' militia'' on a road between Baghdad and Hilla, about 50 miles south, where the men were apparently on patrol. The posting said the hostages were national guardsmen and part of an outfit called the Legion Security Force.
 In the photos, some of the guardsmen look frightened, sitting in a dirt pit at the feet of three guerrillas wearing black ski masks and brandishing AK-47's. Most of the hostages have on white T-shirts with ''LSF,'' for ''Legion Security Force,'' emblazoned across the chests. Two are wearing the brown camouflage uniforms of Iraqi national guardsmen, and one has on a plain khaki uniform with a blue ''LSF'' armband. 
 [Early Wednesday, the television network Al Jazeera reported that an Internet videotape posted on a militant Islamist Web site threatened to behead a Japanese man taken hostage if Japanese forces were not removed within 48 hours, The Associated Press reported. It was not clear if the man, who was shown explaining the kidnappers' demands, was a member of the Japanese forces or was working with them, the agency reported. 
 [There was no confirmation of anyone missing from Japan's forces, but in Tokyo, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi told the chief cabinet secretary that Japanese troops would not pull out, Agence France-Presse reported, quoting a spokesman for Mr. Koizumi.] 
 The Army of Ansar al-Sunna has claimed responsibility for several prominent killings in recent months, including the executions of a dozen Nepalese in August. It is an offshoot of Ansar al-Islam, whose mountain redoubt in northern Iraq was overrun by American Special Forces troops and Kurdish militiamen when the war began. It has proven to be one of the most extreme groups operating in Iraq and is suspected in many beheadings.
 The capture of the 11 guardsmen, the massacre on Saturday and numerous other attacks have shown the weak state of the Iraqi security forces, despite President Bush's assertion that local police officers and soldiers will soon be able to take over security duties from the 138,000 American troops here. 
 An Iraqi national security aide said Monday that 5 percent of the Iraqi forces might be infiltrated by insurgents, and American troops regularly say Iraqi police officers and guardsmen are either worthless as fighters or working with insurgents. Western reporters also frequently encounter Iraqi security officers who say they are ready to take up arms against the occupation forces.
 The guerrillas who staged the ambush on Saturday probably had inside information on the movements of the soldiers, Iraqi officials have said.
 The interior minister, Falah al-Naqib, also appeared before the National Assembly on Tuesday and said the government was starting to remove police officers deemed to be bad workers. ''Some of them are lazy,'' he said. ''They came just for the sake of making a salary or earning a living. We have a real unemployment problem.''
 In interviews, Iraqi police officers almost invariably cite the lack of jobs as the main reason they joined the security forces, despite the dangers. The nationwide unemployment rate is about 60 percent. The average police officer makes more than $220 a month, a solid middle-class income in this society.
 If the men are turned away from security jobs or fired, Mr. Naqib said, then insurgents will recruit them and pay them even more.
 Several recent prominent arrests have exposed potential senior-level corruption among the security forces. Last month, the First Infantry Division arrested a senior commander of the Iraqi National Guard in Diyala Province, where the Kirkush base is situated, accusing him of having ties to the insurgency. In August, marines arrested the police chief of rebellious Al Anbar Province on charges of corruption.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pictures of 11 Iraqi soldiers were posted yesterday on the Web site of the Army of Ansar al-Sunna, a guerrilla group that said it had captured the men, members of the Legion Security Force, on a road south of Baghdad. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
Prime Minister Ayad Allawi in talks yesterday on the elections planned for January. A car bomb exploded yesterday in Mosul, one of two in the city, but no casualties were reported. (Photo by Schlonak/Associated Press)
 (Pool photo by Mohammed Messara) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ARMIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: JAISH ANSAR AL-SUNNA (59%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (56%) Ayad (Prime Min) Allawi; Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); POLAND (73%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



619 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Cars; GREEN AND COMFY; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: To Improve Gas Mileage, Install a Cleaner Driver

BYLINE: By LIA MILLER

 BODY:
SO you drive a 1986 Jeep Wagoneer that gets 18 miles to the gallon and you can't afford to buy a new car. But the car is only part of the equation when it comes to gas mileage and pollution. The other part is you. Are you an aggressive driver? Do you drive with the windows down a lot, or with, say, a canoe on top? Such variables can influence your gas mileage. Here are some tips that experts say can save as much as 20 percent in fuel consumption:
 * Do as many errands together as possible. Margo T. Oge, director of the Office of Transportation and Air Quality at the Environmental Protection Agency, says that about one-third of all car trips are less than a mile long. ''If we can plan ahead and consolidate the trip to the drugstore, dropping your child at soccer and the grocery shopping, it would do a lot to save fuel consumption,'' Ms. Oge said. 
 Combining errands also cuts down on ''cold'' starts. When an engine has been sitting for more than an hour (the time it takes to completely cool down), starting it produces a bigger burst of pollutants than when the engine is warm.
 ''When you are driving a car, 90 percent of the smog-producing pollutants are emitted in the first 90 seconds of driving,'' said Nancy Hazard, the associate director of the Northeast Sustainable Energy Associaton. Until the catalyst has warmed up, it works less efficiently, thus producing more pollutants.
 * Take the roof rack off. The drag created by a rack burns about 5 percent more fuel than a car without one. If possible, pack your things inside the car.
 * Keep your engine maintained for its best performance. Dirty fuel injectors and clogged air filters, for example, reduce engine performance. ''One of the best things you can do to make your car as clean as possible,'' Ms. Hazard said, ''is to tune the engine so that it's running at its peak performance.''
 * Check your tire pressure regularly. Underinflated tires do not work as effectively and therefore use more fuel to power the car. Edward J. Wall, the program manager at the Freedom CAR and Vehicle Technologies Program at the United States Department of Energy, says that car owners should at the minimum check tire pressure once a month.
 He also advises investing in your own tire-pressure gauge, because gas station ones can be inaccurate. You can lose about 0.4 percent of fuel economy for every pound that your tires are off; so if they are five pounds low, you lose 2 percent. A 2001 study by the Department of Transportation found that 40 percent of the passenger vehicles on the road had at least one tire that was underinflated by six pounds.
 A sticker with the specifications is usually on the inside door jamb or in the glove box. (Car manuals also supply this information.)
 * Change the oil regularly and use the recommended grade of motor oil. Your engine is designed for a certain viscosity. If you use thicker oil, it makes the engine work harder.
 * Keep windows closed to reduce drag; if possible, reduce air-conditioner use at the same time. Using the air-conditioner can increase fuel costs as much as 13 percent. Turning on the car's flow-through ventilation system can substitute for air-conditioning in mild summer temperatures.
 * On long highway trips, use cruise control. Drivers tend to give a jolt of gas here and there, which wastes fuel. Cruise control maintains speed more consistently.
 * Don't drive aggressively. ''Rapid acceleration and hard braking wastes gas,'' Mr. Wall said. ''It's much better to gradually apply the gas and brake.'' According to the Department of Energy, aggressive driving tactics can reduce fuel economy up to 30 percent.
 * Obey the speed limit. Once you start going over 55 miles an hour, wind resistance starts to have a bigger effect on fuel efficiency, and it takes more power to make the car go. ''Dropping from 70 m.p.h. to 55 would save you 17 percent on fuel economy,'' Mr. Wall said. It is important to note that the amount of fuel you use increases exponentially the faster you go. You use about 10 percent more fuel going 65 m.p.h. than 55 m.p.h., but you use 7 percent more fuel at 70 than at 65. 
 To learn more about fuel-efficient driving, a bounty of information is available at , epa.gov/otaq/. The E.P.A. also offers a Green Vehicle Guide at epa.gov /greenvehicles, where you can look up any make of car from 2000 to 2004 and read about its environmental performance. The Department of Energy has a site devoted to fuel economy as well, at fueleconomy.gov.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Lars Leetaru) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); SMOG (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); PRESSURE SENSORS (60%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: Lia Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



620 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Chow Mag Goes Well With 'Tude

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
MOST recipes for starting a serious magazine include dozens of staff members and many millions of dollars, but Chow, an independent magazine making its debut, is being produced by a few hardy souls working with a low six-figure budget.
 The differences do not end there. Most food magazines are the glossy equivalent of an expensive chef knife: gorgeous to behold, and sometimes a bit challenging for the average amateur to use correctly. Chow is more like a Buck knife, utilitarian in the extreme and no-nonsense in approach. And unlike established magazines, Chow is far more irreverent and less bent on establishing foodie credentials. 
 On the phone from the world headquarters of Chow -- her apartment in the Castro district of San Francisco, where she put together the first issue -- Jane Goldman, the founder and editor, said she and her staff had set out to make a food magazine that was mostly serious about having fun.
 ''There are a bunch of people who love food but don't read food magazines,'' she said. ''Food writing has become sanctimonious and predictable.''
 Ruth Reichl, editor in chief at Gourmet, disagrees with the claim that magazines likes hers are stodgy.
 ''That's a pretty old idea of what a food magazine is,'' she said by telephone. ''We've been working very hard to bring what we do down to earth and have some fun doing it. Nothing is taboo in our magazine.''
 Ms. Goldman said that the aim of Chow was to make a magazine for ''people who are passionate about food but have fairly primitive cooking skills.'' That demographic would include Ms. Goldman, who was a high-ranking editor at The Industry Standard, the weekly magazine that famously captured the essence of the Internet economy and burned through more than $100 million before crashing in 2001. 
 ''The Standard was a wild ride,'' Ms. Goldman said. ''I was busier than I ever thought I could be. Chow is hectic, but in a different way. We are putting out a magazine with very little money and not that many people.''
 After failing to obtain financing from people she knew in the world of Silicon Valley venture capital, Ms. Goldman turned to friends and family to come up with $300,000, which she said should finance at least the first issues of the magazine, which is to be published six times a year. With little money on hand, West Coast publishing friends provided articles and designed the magazine, and Francine Maroukian, a former caterer, longtime food writer for Esquire and the author of several cookbooks, came aboard. The first issue of the magazine includes a feature on procuring illegal cheese, an alcohol-infused tour of the globe and a guide to ingredients to keep on hand to let you entertain on the spur of the moment. Many-starred chefs offer their best breakfast ideas, and Alan Richman, the food critic, contributes an endorsement of Wendy's and other improbable recommendations.
 Many indie magazines struggle in part because it is such a battle to reach consumers at the newsstand and to define a niche of people willing to buy into them.
 ''If there is a runway there, it is a very narrow one,'' said Mark Edmiston of AdMedia Partners, a media investment bank. ''But if you come up with something consumers are interested in, you can make a go of it.''
 For the time being, Chow is a tidy snack of a magazine, with an initial circulation of 50,000 and a future mostly predicated on high hopes and the kind of optimism that keeps people putting out new magazines even as major publishers struggle against a punishing set of industry economics.
 ''This is a very grass-roots model,'' Ms. Goldman said. ''Of course we would like to have a big investor, but for the time being we think we can find readers because there is such a clear need that recognizes that food is supposed to be fun.''


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); WRITERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CATERING SERVICES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (62%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%) Magazines; Food; Cooking and Cookbooks

ORGANIZATION: Chow (Magazine)

PERSON: David Carr; Jane Goldman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



621 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2449 words

HEADLINE: In the Midwest, A Sweet Tooth Is Nonpartisan

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
IT must be inborn. Show me a Midwesterner, and I'll show you someone with an incurable sweet tooth. A son of Ohio, I'm as bad as the next guy -- worse, if you believe my dessert-averse wife, Betsey, who is made of sterner Southern stuff.
 In most of the rest of the country, the third Saturday in October is just another day to admire the leaves or to watch football. But it is Sweetest Day in Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin and Ohio, where the holiday was invented, a day when one bestows candy, posies and other gifts on husbands, wives and, yes, sweethearts.
 I have been bouncing around the Midwest on campaign duty for the last couple of months, indulging in favorite sweets and discovering new ones: humble confections like the remarkable Bismarck doughnuts of Oak House Bakery in Madison, Wis., made with unbleached white flour, filled with real whipped cream and iced with chocolate, and fancier ones like the delectable lemon tarts with candied kumquat, each topped with exactly nine perfect swirls of meringue, at 40 Sardines, a wonderful restaurant in Overland Park, Kan., in the suburbs of Kansas City. 
 Pie has always been a Midwestern passion, and the cherry pie served at the Cherry Hut in Beulah, Mich., leads my list of all-time regional classics. Right there next to it is Ted Drewes frozen custard, dispensed from a tiny stand on old Route 66 in St. Louis, and the kringle made in Racine, Wis., by bakeries like O&H, which is the only Danish pastry in America that any self-respecting Dane would eat, and the loaf-sized cinnamon roll adored by the customers of the Machine Shed in Urbandale, Iowa, near Des Moines, me included.
 Comparable delights, almost all of them homemade, graced our family table in Akron in my boyhood decades.
 Even today, almost half a century after I left the land of the Buckeyes to explore the wider world, I find myself daydreaming about my mother's party pieces, a velvety custard pie with a graham-cracker crust and a raisin-studded spice cake whose not-so-secret ingredient was tomato soup. I discovered years later that one recipe came from the cracker box, the other from Irma S. Rombauer's ''Joy of Cooking.'' A Midwesterner herself, Aunt Irma (as my mother jocularly referred to her) was born in St. Louis in 1877 and died in 1962.
 Daydreaming doesn't put on the pounds, but I do more than daydream. Plop me down in or near Cincinnati, and I can't resist stopping at one of Graeter's three dozen ice cream parlors, which have been in business for 133 years, using something called ''the French pot process'' to make dense, devilishly rich ice cream. With little air whipped into it, Graeter's frozen manna weighs nearly a pound a pint. In season, I always take the fresh peach, full of the flavor of ripe fruit. Try it; you'll understand how ''peachy'' came to be a synonym for ''splendid.''
 Unfortunately I can't stay away from Marshall Field's in Chicago, either. It sells a product known as Frango mints, compact little cubes of dark chocolate infused with peppermint. Chicago purists complain that they're no longer produced in the region. (A nonunion plant in Pennsylvania has made them since Field's closed its 13th-floor candy kitchen in 1999.) But hey, they still taste the same to me, and for me taste trumps pride and provenance any old day.
 PIE is to the Midwest as rice is to China. When Norman Rockwell wanted to conjure up an image of wholesome American life, he painted what I always took to be a Midwestern farm wife, apron on, carrying a pie to the dinner table. Not by happenstance do we say that something typical of our way of life is ''as American as apple pie.''
 The Norske Nook in Osseo, Wis., up near the Twin Cities, is pie paradise. The cheerful, red-pinafored waitresses there will serve you apple pie if you like: standard-issue apple, Dutch apple or harvest apple. You won't be sorry if you order it. But there are far more exceptional items in the Norske Nook's repertory of more than two dozen pies, all made from scratch every morning according to the recipes of Helen Myhre, who founded the place. This is the nation's premier dairy state, remember. So go ahead, take the plunge, and order the Farm Belt favorite, sour cream raisin, made from rich, tangy, extra-thick Wisconsin sour cream, with a short, flaky crust and a fine pompadour of meringue, or maybe the lush banana cream, which won the National Pie Championship in 2003.
 Seek, as you cruise the highways in the nation's midsection, and ye shall be rewarded (particularly if you have one of Jane and Michael Stern's helpful guidebooks in hand). In Huntington, Ind., Dan Quayle's hometown, Nick's Kitchen offers a beautifully burnished butterscotch pie. In Marshalltown, Iowa, Stone's serves a tottering wedge of lemon chiffon pie that is taller than it is wide. In Two Harbors, Minn., on the remote north shore of Lake Superior, Betty's Pies pairs blackberries and peaches in a North Woods version of a pie that wins plaudits from Georgia to Oregon.
 Why pie? Pie has always been a small-town specialty. For the rural housewife, the ingredients were close at hand, easily produced on the farm or readily and cheaply bought, and all she needed to add was time, care and a few little tricks probably passed down from mother to daughter.
 Beulah, Mich., where the Cherry Hut has been doing business since 1922, could hardly have shorter supply lines; not far from Traverse City, it stands in the midst of the country's most productive sour cherry orchards. Like many of these places, it started as a simple roadside stand and just grew and grew and g-r-e-w. Still family run, it now has three big dining rooms, plus a patio, and during its season -- Memorial Day to Oct. 24 this year -- there is often a line of hungry eaters waiting for a table. On the Fourth of July this year, the Cherry Hut sold 595 pies.
 True to form, I ordered mine a la mode, and Betsey asked for a small piece, hold the ice cream, please. That was her last moment of restraint. She took one warm bite and closed her eyes in bliss. ''I have shivers down to my toes,'' she said. ''The crust is just perfect, and so is the tart-sweet balance. It doesn't hurt your teeth.''
 Brenda Case, who runs the place with her husband, Leonard, told us the recipe has never changed. Lard, always lard, in the crust. Fresh local cherries in season, frozen local cherries at other times. No cornstarch. The result is light and juicy, as if you had just plucked the cherries from a tree, and a million miles from the gooey consistency produced by canned pie filling.
 There are cherries everywhere at the Hut to remind you why you're there. The menu is shaped like a cherry, the curtains are a cherry print and the waitresses wear candy-striped outfits in white and cherry red. Ours, Mrs. Case's astonishingly energetic 74-year-old sister-in-law, Lorayne, suggested a hot turkey sandwich as a modest hors d'oeuvre before the pie. It came garnished with a maraschino cherry.
 FROZEN CUSTARD was all over the Midwest when I was growing up, but it has lost its grip in most places. Not, happily, in Milwaukee and environs, where neon-clad Leon's (the inspiration for Arnold's joint in ''Happy Days'') still serves terrific stuff, with a not-really-optional crown of hot fudge. Kopp's, whose Layton Avenue shop provides a fetchingly landscaped garden, complete with a waterfall, for your eating pleasure, has developed the flavor of the day into an art form. If vanilla or Dutch chocolate, always on offer, don't do it for you, you might just luck into caramel cashew or German apple streusel. On Sweetest Day this year, chocolate cherry kiss showed up for duty, and on Sunday, for Halloween, they promise pecan praline pumpkin pie.
 The crew at Ted Drewes, in St. Louis, indulges in no such antics. There you can take your choice of vanilla or vanilla or vanilla. You can have it in a cone, in a dish, in a soda, in a sundae, in a ''crater'' (hot fudge, custard and devil's food cake), in a milkshake or in a ''concrete'' -- the house special since the 1950's -- a gravity-defying, extra-thick shake, so thick you can turn it upside down without losing a spoonful.
 ''Keeping it simple makes service faster and quality control easier,'' said Travis Dillon, who runs the company along with his father-in-law, Ted Drewes Jr., son of the founder. ''Too many variables gives too many chances for mistakes.''
 It's a philosophy reminiscent of Henry Ford, who made Model T's only in black, for nearly identical reasons.
 The 30 add-ins and add-ons cover a delicious range, from crumbled Heath bars and Oreos to blueberries and bananas to pistachios and coconut. And the frozen custard itself is a paragon among iced desserts: at least 10 percent butterfat and at least 1.4 percent eggs by weight, which makes it smooth as a newborn's cheek. Honey has been the chosen sweetener since sugar rationing began during World War II.
 Drewes retails more than 150,000 gallons of custard every year. It is made on the spot daily in small batches, because it tastes better when freezer fresh. 
 My favorite concoction, the butterscotch sundae, has the color of a lion's mane and the texture of satin, with the real roasted-sugar flavor usually found only in Scotland. Mr. Dillon told me he liked fudge and raspberries or peaches and macadamia nuts on his sundaes. His wife, Christy, he said, often orders chocolate sauce and almonds, or pecans and pineapple. That made me, as a single-topping man, feel like a piker.
 ONE year Betsey showered 15 kringles upon our astonished daughter, Catherine, and her four roommates at Harvard. Betsey claims to have confused Racine's Kringle, which serves six to eight, with the single-serving Danish familiar to New Yorkers. I don't believe a word of that; I put it down to excessive maternal anxiety.
 Our good friend from Vietnam Les Aspin, who represented the Racine area in Congress before serving as defense secretary, turned us on to kringles. They were his unvarying Christmas present: horse-collar-shape rings of puff pastry, filled with almond paste and sparingly topped with white icing, so addictively scrumptious that I could easily plow through one in two days, instead of a week, if Betsey's back were turned, which it very seldom is.
 Les having gone prematurely to his reward, we order frozen kringles for ourselves and our friends each year direct from O&H, the largest of the handful of bakeries still operating in Racine, which once had the largest Danish community in the nation. They come with fruit fillings -- apricot, blueberry and cherry, among others -- in addition to pecan and the original almond. I have to admit that I'm not crazy about a relatively recent addition, turtle, which incorporates caramel, chocolate and pecans. The puff pastry's fragility gives way under that onslaught of flavors and textures.
 The delicacy of kringle, achieved by folding and refolding the pastry, partly by machine and partly by hand, and passing it again and again through steel rollers like those on a pasta machine, is what sets it apart. When the three days of folding, rolling and resting have been completed, the finished product has 32 distinct layers of dough and butter, each a mere two millimeters or eight-hundredths of an inch thick.
 Well, not pure butter, for all of Wisconsin's pride in its dairy herds. A quantity of margarine is incorporated as well, to achieve the desired melting point.
 Until three years ago, all the work was done by hand in a small bakery. But now O&H makes its kringles in an immaculate, hangarlike former machine-tool shop filled with machinery, much of which the company designed or adapted from other uses. It produces half a million a year, in more than 100 varieties. Of those, 40 percent are sold at two Racine retail outlets, the rest through mail orders or the Internet.
 Eric Olesen, one of three brothers, grandsons of a co-founder of O&H, showed me around. The O in the company's name stands for Olesen, obviously; the H stands for Harvey Holtz, a bookkeeper who was his grandfather's early partner.
 Why, I asked Mr. Olesen, does Racine Danish differ so radically from the rest of what Americans eat? ''Here,'' he said, ''we focus on the pastry, as they do in Denmark. Elsewhere in our country, people put the emphasis on the fillings, and because of that it isn't worth all the time and expense that goes into making puff pastry.''
 FINESSE isn't as much of an issue with Iowa's favorite goody at breakfast (and lunch and dinner), the cinnamon roll. To satisfy the big eaters of the Corn Belt, sugar and spice are laid on with a trowel.
 Cinnamon rolls have become a fad nationwide. Any self-respecting airport sells them. So does Stroud's, the down-home fried-chicken house in Kansas City. A calorie-laden variant, the Michigan maple roll (grilled, yet!) stars on the breakfast menu at Juilleret's cafe in Charlevoix.
 But Iowans have a unique mania for cinnamon rolls. They take candidates in the presidential caucuses to places like the McNally Bake Shop in Emmetsburg, whose rolls one politician pronounced heavenly. They serve rolls to tourists in Amana. And the best home bakers, as many as 200 most years, enter their prize specimens in the contest at the Iowa State Fair, judged by a panel of home economists and experts from Tone's, the spice company, headquartered at Ankeny, Iowa. This year's winner, Marianne Carlson of Jefferson, earned $3,000, the fair's biggest food prize, donated by Tone's.
 ''When they bring 'em in, still warm, the whole building smells wonderful, and your sweet tooth drips,'' said Arlette Hollister, who has been the superintendent of food at the fair for the past 18 years.
 I was a little embarrassed to tell Ms. Hollister that the best cinnamon roll I could remember eating -- it's more like a half-dozen rolls masquerading as one -- was served at the Machine Shed, a kitschy suburban establishment full of hay bales and impossibly corny signs, down-on-the-farm gifts and waitresses in bib overalls. Part of a regional chain, it serves herculean breakfasts, specializing, as my colleague, David Yepsen of The Des Moines Register, told Betsey and me, in the three basic Iowa food groups: salt, fat and sugar.
 But maybe I'm not hopeless after all. Ms. Hollister, who had spoken glowingly of the fluffiness of Ms. Carlson's rolls, described the ones at the Machine Shed, which are approximately as fluffy as a bagel, as ''very, very, very good.'' I also learned, just as I left Des Moines, that Chuck Offenburger, a former newspaper columnist who used to run an annual contest to pick the coffee shop or restaurant that served the best roll, had once rated the Machine Shed No. 1. Who am I to dissent?


CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about Midwestern desserts misidentified the country's leading dairy-producing state. It is California, no longer Wisconsin. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE POPULAR VOTE -- At the Machine Shed near Des Moines, from left, a sticky bun, cinnamon roll and a fruit-filled wagon wheel. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
THE PASSION OF PIE -- The Cherry Hut, left, in Beulah, Mich., has been family run since 1922. It uses local cherries and lard in the crust. Amber Mueller, top, took her wedding party to Ted Drewes in St. Louis for frozen custard. Above right, a Danish kringle at O&H bakery in Racine, Wis. (Photo by Mark Katzman for The New York Times)
(Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)
 (Photo by John R. Williams for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (88%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (86%); CONFECTIONERY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); BAKERIES (73%); FROZEN DESSERTS (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%) Desserts

PERSON: R W Jr Apple

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%); MADISON, WI, USA (72%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%) Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



622 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Financial Woes Plague Two Broadway Hopefuls

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Two anticipated Broadway productions are experiencing money woes after potential investors developed cold feet. 
 The financial crunch is more pressing at the Walter Kerr Theater, where ''Gem of the Ocean,'' the new August Wilson play, is to open on Nov. 11. Plans to dress the marquee and bring in the show's set and technical equipment have been delayed since a major investor pulled his money out of this $2 million production late last week. 
 Benjamin Mordecai, the play's lead producer, would not say exactly how much money was lost, but acknowledged that the amount was in six figures and substantial enough to give him -- and the production -- pause. 
 ''I'm trying to be a cautious producer and make sure all my ducks are in a row,'' said Mr. Mordecai, who has produced eight of Mr. Wilson's plays on Broadway. ''Until everything is in place, I don't want to have any major expenditures.'' 
 As a result, the play's Broadway set is still waiting to be taken into the Kerr, along with posters and signs for the outside of the theater. The cast, meanwhile, continues to perform this week in a tryout run at the Huntington Theater in Boston, where ''Gem'' has received generally favorable reviews (flawed but promising was the general tone), with particularly sparkling notices for its star, Phylicia Rashad. Previews at the Kerr are to begin on Nov. 4, and Mr. Mordecai said neither the previews nor the opening night would be delayed.
 ''Gem'' is not the only show on Mr. Mordecai's mind; he is also trying to promote ''Brooklyn the Musical,'' the new $7 million show that opened to mediocre reviews on Thursday and has relatively small advance sales of $1.5 million.
 Here, too, however, Mr. Mordecai seems optimistic, saying the show was in the black last week despite playing to only 60 percent of capacity (and grossing only $238,799) at the Plymouth. 
 ''We would have loved universal praise,'' he said of the reviews. ''But that didn't happen.'' 
 Mr. Mordecai strongly denied that there was any relationship between the ''Gem'' problem and the uphill battle for ''Brooklyn'' to recoup. 
 Also in potential peril is ''Jerry Springer: The Opera,'' the satirical British musical about Mr. Springer's talk show and its place in the universe (Hell included). The production opened last year at the National Theater in London, received rave reviews and moved to the West End, where it has done decent but not terrific business. The show is expected to move to Broadway next year. 
 But on Sunday an article in The Independent in London reported that the show was on its last legs and would probably close there because of a continuing legal battle with the powerful tabloid The Daily Mail, which was draining the production's coffers.
 Jon Thoday, the show's lead producer, denied that assertion on Monday, saying the production's financial health was improving after a slow September and a near-disastrous year for the West End as a whole. ''September was weak,'' he said. ''But now we are back in profit.'' 
 That said, Mr. Thoday confirmed that the show was involved in a knotty legal dispute with The Daily Mail, which admitted falsely reporting last winter that the production was in financial trouble. The newspaper, which issued an apology, is still awaiting a court date for the assessment of damages, which is expected in December. In the meantime Mr. Thoday said the production was making contingency plans in the event of an extended legal battle. 
 ''We had to divert a very substantial sum of money in that direction instead of using it to advertise the show,'' said Mr. Thoday, who estimated that legal fees could run as much as $:500,000, or more than $900,000. ''If we were to settle with them, we'd have to pay their legal costs, so we don't have any choice but to go to court.''
 Lawrence Sears, the managing editor of The Daily Mail, to whom questions about the case were referred, did not respond to phone calls and e-mail messages. A spokeswoman for the paper told The Independent that it would have no comment because of ''ongoing legal proceedings.'' 
 How the Broadway production might be affected remains to be seen, but Mr. Thoday also confirmed that the show was nearly $7 million short of its planned $11 million Broadway capitalization after it, too, had a major investor pull out. He also said that the musical's bawdy sequences and pointed attacks on organized religion were concerns to some potential investors. But Mr. Thoday said he still believed that the show would make it to New York next year. 
 ''I think the success of the London production is important,'' he said. ''But I don't think all this will affect the New York production.''
 ''Gem'' is still one of the few new American plays expected on Broadway this season. The story of a young man seeking absolution in a somewhat surreal 1904, ''Gem'' is the ninth in a 10-play cycle Mr. Wilson has written about the experience of black Americans in the 20th century. That body of work includes ''Two Trains Running,'' ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom'' and two Pulitzer Prize winners, ''Fences'' and ''The Piano Lesson.''
 The delay in assembling its set is just the latest challenge for ''Gem of the Ocean,'' which before its Boston opening lost its original director, Marion McClinton, to illness, and one of its original stars, Delroy Lindo, to a creative dispute. (The play had previously run in Chicago and Los Angeles.) Kenny Leon, who directed last season's Broadway production of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' took over the show, and Anthony Chisholm replaced Mr. Lindo.
 Mr. Wilson's critical accolades have not always translated into strong sales on Broadway; his last play, ''King Hedley II,'' lost money during a two-month run at the Virginia Theater in 2001. But Mr. Mordecai said he was confident that ''Gem,'' which has a healthy advance for a new play ($750,000 and counting), would find an audience. ''This is a play that people can really connect to,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Phylicia Rashad in August Wilson's ''Gem of the Ocean,'' now trying out in Boston. (Photo by T. Charles Erickson)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LITIGATION (74%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (70%) Theater; Finances; Suits and Litigation; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Daily Mail (London) 

PERSON: Benjamin Mordecai; Jon Thoday; Jesse Mckinley; August Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



623 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Cars; COLLECTING; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: This Bug Bites Young And Lasts a Lifetime

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL SULLIVAN MOORE

 BODY:
THE slogan of the Automobile License Plate Collectors Association could be: license plates, a hobby that can last a lifetime. It seemed that way, at least, during the association's recent 50th convention in Providence, R.I, where most of the collectors harked back to a boyhood find that got them hooked. 
 And there is, of course, no shortage of plates to be hooked on. In the United States alone, there are about 750 specialty plates, raising money and awareness for causes as diverse as curing children's cancer to combating terrorism. Other collectibles include America's earliest plates (the first, circa 1901, were handmade from leather and wood), overseas models or ones exclusively for diplomats, war veterans, police and other organizations. 
 Collectors obtain sample plates from motor vehicle departments and used versions from other enthusiasts, swap meets, Web sites, junkyards and even plate-shingled roofs. While some collectors spend thousands of dollars on rare, historic plates, most collectors pay much less.

ANDREW PANG, 33
Elkridge, Md.
 A hotel accountant, Mr. Pang began collecting at age 6, when he asked a neighbor to bring him a souvenir. The token, a Louisiana dealer plate, went right up on the Pang family's basement wall. Soon, the young Mr. Pang accumulated a plate from every state. 
 ''I've always been a geography buff,'' he explained. ''There's something about seeing a plate from where you have been or would like to go.''
 By age 8, Mr. Pang began amassing a chronological set of Virginia plates -- a task that took 25 years to complete. The day Mr. Pang acquired the final plate -- ''a boring old black and white plate'' issued in 1906, ''was the second-best day of my life.'' (The best day was when he married his wife, he said. The recent birth of his son, Alexander, has pushed the plate milestone into third place.) 

JONATHAN UPTON, 30
Ottawa
 A high school teacher, Mr. Upton got his first plate at age 10. ''I went to a junkyard, and it was on an old Ford LTD station wagon: JMB 624, an Ontario plate,'' Mr. Upton said. ''I hung it up in my bedroom, and it snowballed from there. I thought I was the only person in the world collecting such an obscure and specific thing.''
 Over the years, Mr. Upton has become a good friend of Mr. Pang; to economize, they room together at license-plate-collecting conferences.
 ''He's a low-maintenance roommate that I have reserved in perpetuity,'' Mr. Upton said, noting Mr. Pang's nonsmoking and nonsnoring attributes. 
 Now Mr. Upton collects Ontario plates and occasional highway signs and roller-style, bus-destination signs. ''But license plates are my first love,'' he said, before correcting himself: ''My wife is my first love.'' 

BOB BITTNER, 55
West Bath, Me.
 The owner of two radio stations, WJIB-AM in Cambridge, Mass., and WJTO-AM in Bath, Me., Mr. Bittner was an 8-year-old on a bike when he found his first plate glittering on the roadside.
 ''I was fascinated by its reflective surface,'' said Mr. Bittner, who is also a graphic artist.
 Mr. Bittner's longtime hobby has given him the opportunity to do some armchair dreaming about exotic travel during harsh New England winters. ''I just love beaches, blue skies and warm beaches,'' he said, and now he specializes in Caribbean and international plates. ''Some day before I'm off this planet, I may make a three-week trip to the Micronesian Islands in the Pacific.''
 Today, Mr. Bittner travels to the Caribbean several times a year, politely scouring junkyards and plated rooftops for collectibles. ''We don't steal; we always ask,'' he said, citing the collector's credo. 

RICHARD E. DRAGON, 41
Warwick, R.I.
 At age 9, Mr. Dragon, now a certified public accountant, discovered his first plate on a roadside, what he calls ''a run-of-the-mill'' Massachusetts passenger plate.
 ''It just caught my fancy for some reason,'' Mr. Dragon said. A few years later, a cross-country driving trip sealed the deal. During the trip, Mr. Dragon, who was a geography buff as well, collected various newspapers. ''When I got home, I sat down and wrote to all these newspapers,'' asking if they knew other plate collectors.
 Eventually, Mr. Dragon's query prompted some Denver collectors to get in touch with him about the plate collectors' association. At 14, he became an official member. Mr. Dragon, who is researching a book about specialty plates, is working on a chronological collection of passenger-car plates from every state.
 ''It's a set that will never be complete, because of the extreme scarcity of the plates,'' he said. But that doesn't bother him. ''The point is as a collector, the enjoyment is in the collecting, the thrill of the chase,'' he said

ROBERT L. WARD, 84
Pottstown, Pa.
 Mr. Ward doesn't collect license plates anymore. He sold his collection 10 years ago when he moved to smaller quarters sometime after retiring from his job as kitchen director for the State Correctional Institute in Graterford, Pa.
 He began collecting plates in 1951. ''My son was born in '51, and I decided to get a '51 plate from each state in honor'' of him, he said. Mr. Ward is one of the association's earliest members, holding membership No. 14; his son, Linwood, has No. 144.
 Mr. Ward pointed out a hitch to the hobby: storing thousands of plates, especially the heavy early-issue porcelain plates. He used to put his plates in the attic, ''but I was afraid the attic would crash down under their weight,'' he said, ''so I put them in the basement because that's got a cement floor.'' 
 His collection was chronologically ordered plates from 30 states, beginning with the date each state issued its registrations to the time Mr. Ward stopped collecting. A highlight of his collection was a 1904 handmade black leather New York plate with an accompanying tin medallion that was placed on the car's dashboard. Mr. Ward received a total of $7,000 for his collection from about 20 fellow collectors.
 So why does he still attend the association's meetings? ''I go to see the friends,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PLATE FULL -- Bob Bittner, above, looks through bins at the Automobile License Plate Collectors Association in Providence, R.I. An assortment of ''mistake'' plates, left. (Photographs by Stew Milne for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CHILDREN (75%); DRIVERS LICENSES (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); SMOKING (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (61%); TERRORISM (55%); VETERANS (54%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%) Roads and Traffic; Collectors and Collections; Drivers Licenses; Hobbies

ORGANIZATION: AUTOMOBILE LICENSE PLATE COLLECTORS ASSOCIATION (93%) Automobile License Plate Collectors Assn

PERSON: Abigail Sullivan Moore

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



624 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- The Bronx and Westchester; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Laying the Groundwork For the Big-Box Retailers

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
Focusing on sections of the Bronx and lower Westchester County where there may not be enough stores to serve residents nearby, Acadia Realty Trust of White Plains has acquired two sites for urban redevelopment projects: one in Pelham Manor in Westchester County and the other on Fordham Road in the Bronx.
 They are the first of a number of retail projects planned for the area by Acadia, a real estate investment trust that specializes in acquiring, redeveloping and operating shopping centers. It intends to convert the sites for use by big-box stores.
 In Pelham Manor, Acadia has signed a 95-year ground lease on the 16-acre site, and it plans to spend some $35 million to build a 200,000-square-foot retail center anchored by one or more big-box retailers. Joel Braun, a senior vice president and chief investment officer of Acadia, would not divulge financial details of the lease. 
 In the Bronx, at the corner of East Fordham Road and Webster Avenue, Acadia has spent $30 million to acquire a six-story, 117,000-square-foot building occupied for the last 40 years by Sears, Roebuck. It will spend $20 million more to redevelop and expand the building by 75,000 square feet. Sears still has 33 months on its lease and may or may not remain there, Mr. Braun said.
 In all, the REIT, which is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, plans to spend about $300 million for such redevelopment projects, referred to as urban-infill projects.
 Officials in Pelham Manor, a prosperous 1.2-square-mile village with 1,500 residents, said they were hopeful that the site, which now holds warehouses, would generate more property taxes as a retail center. Environmental studies have been completed by the village board, and the zoning has been changed to allow retail uses on the privately owned parcel.
 ''We've already done the heavy lifting'' to pave the way for a developer, said John T. Pierpont, Pelham Manor's manager, clerk and treasurer. ''It will be a more productive use and generate more income for the village, and it will absolutely look a lot nicer than what is there.''
 Because the Hutchinson River Parkway separates the village's residential area from its commercial and retail spaces, residents have not opposed the redevelopment plans, Mr. Pierpont said. The tenants now at the site, including a ceramic tile company and a beverage distributor, will be able to remain until their leases expire in two months to two years.
 More than 400,000 people live in a three-mile radius of the site, which is at Pelham Parkway and Route 1 near Exit 7 on the Hutchinson River Parkway, about 10 miles from Manhattan. Its proximity to the road was an important factor in deciding to build there, Mr. Braun of Acadia said, adding, ''The highway visibility and access is as good as you can get anyplace.
 ''Compared with the rest of the nation, the area around the Bronx is one of the most under-retailed in the country,'' Mr. Braun said, citing the cost of land and the scarcity of plots that can be developed. ''Especially when you're talking about bigger-box stores, where do you find 50,000 square feet?''
 Kenneth F. Bernstein, Acadia's chief executive, said the company would seek retailers that are not yet well established in the Bronx, like Target, Kohl's, Office Max, Bed Bath & Beyond, Best Buy and Wal-Mart.
 Rents in the Fordham Road area exceed $75 a square foot, well below those in prime sections like Midtown Manhattan and the Upper East Side, brokers say. East Fordham Road, a bustling, predominantly Hispanic area, is a significant New York City retail corridor in terms of sales, with 25,000 shoppers in stores daily and annual sales of $500 million. There are more than 650,000 people living within a two-mile radius of Sears.
 Acadia is acquiring the two properties with two investment partners: Aaron Malinsky and Paul Slayton of P/A Associates. Mr. Malinsky, a former vice chairman and chief development officer for the A.&P. supermarkets, is a partner in the recently completed River Plaza, a 235,000-square-foot, $90 million shopping center on West 225th Street in Marble Hill, straddling the Bronx and Manhattan. Mr. Slayton has developed more than 11.5 million square feet of shopping centers, office and industrial space and private storage over 40 years.
 Acadia has at least a partial ownership interest in 68 properties totaling nine million square feet in the Northeast, Middle Atlantic states and Midwest. In its partnership with P/A Associates, it provides the investment capital and oversees construction and leasing, Mr. Braun said. P/A Associates oversees the process of getting approval from municipalities, provides site design and handles lease negotiations and acquisitions.
 Architectural and engineering work has begun on the Pelham Manor site, even though tenants still occupy the nine buildings there. The razing of the property will start in 12 to 24 months, Mr. Malinsky said. In the Bronx, new construction will not take place until the Sears lease expires, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Acadia Realty Trust property in Pelham Manor, N.Y. Acadia has acquired sites for retail development in the village and in the Bronx. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''Value of construction contracts for nonresidential buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through September.Graph tracks construction contracts since 2000.NATIONAL -- IN BILLIONSSEPT. '03 -- $141.5JULY '04 -- 174.4AUG. '04 -- 154.8SEPT. '04 -- 148.5(Source by McGraw-Hill/Construction/Dodge)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); DIVESTITURES (64%); PROPERTY TAX (63%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (60%) Retail Stores and Trade; Renting and Leasing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: ACADIA REALTY TRUST (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Acadia Realty Trust; Sears Roebuck & Co

TICKER: AKR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Westchester County (NY); Pelham Manor (NY); Bronx (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



625 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Cars; GETTING THERE; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: On an Island Idyll, Shopping for Wheels

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

DATELINE: KONA, Hawaii 

 BODY:
MY wife's 2002 Honda Odyssey has some great features, like two sliding doors, power windows and a huge storage area that can hold the picnic table or even my Saab. But it also has some severe limitations. For one, it doesn't float.
 This flaw recently put me in the position of coping with a handful of people -- my family -- who were relocating to a temporary new home, unable to take our old cars. The move, from Connecticut to Hawaii for a year, would have been simpler had our four children not insisted we take them along. 
 Since they did, we had to either put our cars onto real seagoing vessels for the trip, at $4,000 each round trip, or put the cars in storage, find a second set of cars on Hawaii's Big Island and try to keep our one-year payout below $8,000.
 When we arrived in August, our plan was to buy a minivan for about $5,000, which we could sell next year for not much less. Anything costing more than that, we figured, would stretch our monthly carrying costs and leave us with a lot of downside risk next year if the market turned soft.
 I checked the Internet and found many potentially great deals in Hawaii if I were willing to fly, paddle or swim to other islands for test-drives. The auto listings in West Hawaii Today, a local newspaper, yielded a few leads closer to home, including a 1992 Plymouth Voyager for $3,500, which, upon not-so-close inspection, had a huge gash in the passenger door.
 An acquaintance recommended that I check whether the local Honda dealer might swing a one-year lease. At Big Island Honda, I was told that I could take a car on a two-year lease, but I would have to find a buyer to assume the second year, or I'd be stuck with it. Then the salesman, Payman Rahimian, said, ''I think I've got a good option for you.'' 
 His plan was to sell me a recent trade-in, a '99 Dodge Grand Caravan SE with 74,000 miles for $8,700, including a brief warranty. ''Next year, put an ad in the paper and see what you can get, and if you don't get what you want, bring it back here and we'll buy it from you,'' Mr. Rahimian said. ''No promises, but I can't imagine it being worth less than $7,000 if you treat it right.''
 I once had a car salesman for a housemate, so I knew they could sometimes be forgetful about things like ethics, but Mr. Rahimian seemed honorable enough, and his logic was fairly sound.
 With a low interest rate, monthly payments would run to about $190, so at the end of the year we would be out of pocket $2,300. If we lost even an additional $2,000 on the resale, we would still be ahead of our $8,000 goal by $3,700.
 The benefit of our purchase was that we could be fairly sure that we would not be stranded by the roadside during our year here. The downside was that we had to hedge our bets on car No. 2. Our mission was to find a car so cheap we wouldn't have to worry about selling it for much next year.
 Relocation executives suggest that our experience is anomalous. ''Most of the time, clients are looking at domestic U.S. transfers, so they'd take their car,'' said Lina Paskevicius, a consulting manager for Cendant Mobility, a relocation service.
 And since many long-distance relocations happen at a corporation's request, Ms. Paskevicius said that clients typically rely on companies to pay to ship at least one car if the move is greater than 500 miles. (Since my move was voluntary, that perk wasn't available.)
 When we set out to find car No. 2, we didn't need to find something worshiped by its previous owner. We just wanted it to run. Oh, and we wanted four-wheel drive, because all the beaches we discovered turned out to be off limits to minivan outcasts.
 We budgeted $3,000 and looked for a car that would be light on gas, since the going rate for gas here is about $2.55 per gallon. For $3,000, we figured we would do without luxuries like a premium audio system, leather interior, sunroof and alloy rims. I checked the classifieds and added to that list air bags, power steering, a suspension, a transmission, a running engine and a steering wheel.
 I did find a 1987 Jeep Cherokee for $2,500, but when I asked why the lights were not working, the seller told me the fuse box had ''recently melted.''
 After two weeks of fruitless searching, we concluded that the market for four-wheel-drive cars was so tight that the standard appraisal prices were unreliable. Armed with that point of view, I was quickly seduced by a red 1990 Geo Tracker with 200,000 miles, a strong-sounding engine and an owner with extensive maintenance records and an honest handshake.
 I handed him $2,250 and brought our baby home to cheers. True to our family tradition of giving names to our most forlorn cars, we debated names for our Geo. I preferred Pele, after the Hawaiian volcano goddess (who could explode at any moment). The family thought Chili Pepper was cuter, so I went along. I'm just hoping this little red chili doesn't burn. 
 Surprisingly, the car has a nice audio system, featuring a Blaupunkt CD player. When I turn up the volume high enough while traversing the lava fields near our new favorite beach, I can almost not hear the ghost of Pele gaining on me.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Isabel Klett) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIVANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RELOCATIONS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); ETHICS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MARINE VESSELS (54%) Automobiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



626 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Going Out Of Business, On a Broom

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: TORRINGTON, CONN. 

 BODY:
LET'S face it, no matter how hard groups like the Connecticut Wiccan and Pagan Network try to get the word out, it's always going to be a bit tough being a Wiccan in the burbs. Take the case of Helen Fiano, Wiccan entrepreneur, doing her best to stay in business 365 days a year selling wares most of us pay attention to only on Oct. 31.
 Given the autumn foliage, front-porch pumpkins and subliminal whiffs of ghastly menace in the air, it's hard to avoid the big fall frightfest just around the corner. That, of course, would be Election Day, which this year makes Halloween look like Easter Sunday. After all, who would you rather have ringing your doorbell Sunday night: your 8-year-old neighbor dressed up as Paris Hilton, or Dick Cheney saying that if you cast the wrong vote terrorists will explode nuclear bombs? 
 But, for less terrifying forms of fright and trickery, there still is Halloween, usually a big time of year at Realms of Enchantments, where Ms. Fiano sells brooms and incense, herbal potions and goddess figurines, scented candles and fairy T-shirts and the other accouterments of a healthy New Age or Wiccan lifestyle.
 Wiccans, she notes, practice a form of nature worship, and their big festival of seasonal change and honoring the dead is Halloween. For some, that includes benign witchcraft rituals -- honoring the earth and ancestors, not the devil. As far as she knows, nobody gets to ride on a broom. 
 But after 10 years in business, she says that this year will be her last Halloween, at least in her current incarnation. Her business is slow, and she can't pay the rent. Even with Barbara DeVito reading tarot cards in a backroom, she can't make it work. She's hoping to hang on until Christmas -- even in her lines of work, a bigger season than Halloween -- and then migrate to the Internet to see if she can make a go of it there. Ms. DeVito does long-distance healings online, so she figures it might work for her as well at circleofenchantment.com. Still, it makes this a bittersweet Halloween, she said.
 ''I just think it's the economy,'' she said. ''If I was selling something people really needed, I probably could survive. But this is more like a gift thing, or people buying candles, incense or oils for rituals. They're big sellers, but you don't make much off them.''
 MS. FIANO, who says she is in her early 50's, likes to claim she sells ''a little bit of everything for everyone.'' And there is quite a bit of variety. At the high end, there's a $400 black robe with blue sequins, and $600 and $700 spires of Brazilian crystals. At the other are little pieces of blue quartz, ruby, obsidian or amethyst for a dollar or so, the 2005 Season of the Witch wall calendar or bumper stickers reading: ''Witches Parking Only. All Others Will Be Toad.'' There are ornate ritual knives, most with dull edges, like the black-handled athame knife for channeling energies and creating a sacred space for group rituals. And there's such New Age miscellany as feng shui guides, tarot cards, Buddhas and Harry Potter books.
 Ms. Fiano figures she's caught in a squeeze. There are three branches of a local New Age store, Blue Moon Market, and she can't quite compete with them for a general audience. But there's not enough of a market for the serious Wiccan supplies to keep her going. She thinks that if she can get the Internet business going, she might eventually reopen in a smaller space, but for now she's planning to sell off what she can and regroup.
 Still, it's been a nice ride. Ms. Fiano, who smokes Winston Lights and has a friendly cackle of a laugh, used to work in a factory making reflective tape for joggers and people who work at night. Now, she and Merlin, her amiable 5-year-old Lab-shepherd mix, hang out at the store listening to Gregorian chants or New Age CD's with titles like ''Doorway to the Pleiades'' as the $76.95 misting fountain sends meditative wisps of vapor around the store.
 She's not sure what the end of the year will bring, but for now she's looking forward to a good Halloween. No word on Election Day.
 ''I've got a busload of people, 36 in all, going up to Salem,'' she said, referring to the city in Massachusetts synonymous with witches. ''We'll all have a blast doing whatever we do there, and then I'll have my own private ritual at home. And then I'll see how long I can keep this open.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITCHCRAFT (95%); HALLOWEEN (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); EASTER SEASON (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); BOMBINGS (68%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%) Witchcraft; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (56%); PARIS HILTON (53%) Peter Applebome; Helen Fiano

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Torrington (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



627 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

ATA Files for Bankruptcy, Setting Off Bidding War
ATA Airlines became the first major low-fare airline to seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, a move that immediately set off a bidding war for the company and its assets. The airline, a subsidiary of ATA Holdings, said that it would continue to operate normally and maintain a complete schedule of flights.
 ATA said it agreed to sell some gates and slots to AirTran, a low-fare rival, for $87.6 million. Last night, America West, another low-fare airline, said that it was interested in bidding for all of ATA, and experts expect more bids, particularly from Southwest. [Page C9.]

Crash Tests Are Bad News for Ford
The government released the first crash test results for 2005 model cars and trucks. Four-wheel drive versions of the Ford Ranger and Mazda B-Series pickup trucks earned only two out of five stars in rollover ratings. [C2.]

New IPod Can Display Photos
Apple Computer introduced an iPod music player that can store photographs. The device will be able to hold up to 25,000 digital images and display them on a television. Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive, said he disagreed with competitors who say video is a must-have feature in new devices. [C4.]

Rules on Quiet Period May Change
The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed a loosening of restrictions on executives' comments in the weeks before their company sells stock. [C13.]

F.C.C. Approves Cingular Deal
The Federal Communications Commission approved Cingular's purchase of AT&T Wireless, the last hurdle facing the deal. [C4.]

AT&T in $100 Million Settlement
AT&T agreed to pay $100 million to settle a lawsuit by shareholders who claimed the carrier had lied about its finances. [C4.]

F.D.A. Approves Spinal Disk Implant
The Food and Drug Administration permitted a Johnson & Johnson unit to market an artificial spinal disk in the United States. [C4.]

Growth at Advertising Agencies
Omnicom, the world's largest owner of advertising agencies, said third-quarter net income rose 9.2 percent, to $145.3 million, or 79 cents a share, while the WPP Group, the second-largest advertising company, said third-quarter revenue rose 3.8 percent as clients including HSBC Bank, Kraft Foods and Microsoft increased their spending. [C4.]

Marketing Talk Moves to Blogs
Advertising agencies and communications professionals are using blogs to discuss ideas within the industry. Some say the sites can be risky. Advertising. [C9.]

Consumer Confidence Falls Again
Worries about job prospects sent consumer confidence to a seven-month low. [C11.]

Stocks Rise on Insurance Rally
Stocks rose as shares in insurance companies rallied. The Dow Jones industrials gained 138.49 points, to 9,888.48. The S.&P. 500 was up 16.28 points, to 1,111.09, and the Nasdaq composite gained 14.75 points, to 1,928.79. [C11.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,888.48 up 138.49Nasdaq composite -- 1,928.79 up 14.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.00% up 0.03The euro -- $1.2771 down 0.0033The dollar -- 106.72 yen down 0.01Graph tracks Omnicom's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); INSURANCE (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); APPROVALS (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (69%); PICKUP TRUCKS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (67%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); LITIGATION (63%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (95%); AT&T INC (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (64%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (55%); WPP PLC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (64%); OMC (NYSE) (55%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (52%); WPP (LSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (64%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



628 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE STUMP SPEECH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Talks May Vary, but Always a Reminder: Sept. 11

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
His stump speech evolves from day to day as he hustles with increasing urgency through the battleground states seeking to score points against Senator John Kerry. But no matter what the venue or the topic, President Bush always starts by thanking his partners -- one in love, one in running the country.
 Before getting on with his withering assault on Mr. Kerry, the president tries to establish an emotional connection with his audience by making clear his deep affection for Laura Bush, his wife of almost 27 years.
 Then it is on to an expression of loyalty to Vice President Dick Cheney, a lightning rod for the administration's critics but a hero to conservatives like those who wait hours in arenas and on ball fields and in parking lots to hear Mr. Bush speak. 
 ''I readily concede my running mate does not have the waviest hair in the race,'' Mr. Bush said on Tuesday in Onalaska, Wis., drawing appreciative laughter with his hardly veiled belittling of Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards. ''You'll be pleased to know I did not pick him because of his hairdo.''
 A stump speech is in many ways a look into the mind and character of a political candidate. In Mr. Bush's case, the speech is delivered with typical discipline; he almost never veers from his text by more than a few words.
 In nearly all its incarnations, the speech mixes glimpses of his warmth toward his family with calculated signals to his conservative base, references to his religious faith, flashes of his wisecracking humor, policy prescriptions, succinct explanations of his worldview and a gauzy sense of his basic optimism.
 ''Freedom is on the march,'' he said Tuesday in Wisconsin. ''Freedom is on the move. And our country is better for it.''
 The venues vary in size and the crowds in intensity, but the drill is pretty much the same wherever he goes. The announcer proclaims, ''Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States.'' The screened, thoroughly Republican crowds that turn out for his campaign events invariably go wild. And the object of their adoration bounds through their midst, shirt sleeves rolled up, collar usually open, chest thrust forward, shaking hands and often visibly recharging himself with the energy of his supporters.
 He frequently adopts a pronounced Texas twang. He leans into the lectern, his head bobbing forward for emphasis. He has in front of him a three-ring black leather binder, embossed with a gold presidential seal on the front. It holds the text of his speech -- sometimes marked up with his last-minute changes -- in clear plastic sheets. He glances at it regularly, though he delivers certain passages with hardly a look, often with intensity.
 He and his top aides are altering the speech almost every day to add a new zinger directed at Mr. Kerry or to put a special emphasis on the economy or terrorism or Iraq or health care. In recent days, he has sought to win over moderate Democrats, stating that Mr. Kerry ''stands in opposition not just to me but to the great tradition of the Democratic Party'' with a national security policy of ''cut and run.''
 But the speech almost invariably defines his presidency as a product of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and draws as clearly as possible -- or, arguably, more vividly than Mr. Kerry's actual positions would justify -- the distinctions between himself and his opponent.
 ''Since that terrible morning of September the 11th, 2001, we fought the terrorists across the earth, not for pride, not for power, but because the lives of our citizens are at stake,'' Mr. Bush said Tuesday in Wisconsin. 
 ''Even when you might not agree with me, you know where I stand, what I believe and what I will do,'' he said. ''On good days and bad days, whether the polls are up or the polls are down, I am determined to win this war on terror. And I will always support the men and women of the United States military.
 ''My opponent's taking a different approach. It's fair to say that consistency has not been his strong point.''
 In Mr. Bush's rendering, Mr. Kerry is intent on raising taxes on all Americans, has positions on social issues that are out of step with those held by most people, does not support the troops, blows with the political winds and cannot be trusted to be commander in chief.
 The president tries to present himself as not only determined but also optimistic and suffused with faith in the United States and what it stands for.
 For months, one of his signature lines tied together his own religious beliefs with his sense of destiny about American foreign policy.
 ''I believe all these things,'' Mr. Bush would say after setting out a vision in which democracy spreads through the Middle East and the world, ''because freedom is not America's gift to the world, it is the Almighty God's gift to each man and woman in the world.''
 Perhaps out of concern that invoking religion in so overt a way might not play well with centrist Democrats to whom he has been making a special appeal in recent days, he has dropped that line. In its place is often another, built around a quotation from Tom Lea, a writer and artist from El Paso, that has long been a favorite of Mr. Bush's.
 '''Sarah and I live on the east side of the mountain,''' Mr. Bush quotes Mr. Lea as saying. '''It's the sunrise side, not the sunset side. It is the side to see the day that is coming, not to see the day that has gone.' My opponent has spent much of this campaign talking about the day that has gone. I'm talking about the day that's coming.''
 Although he is often more fluent and even eloquent than his reputation would suggest, Mr. Bush does have a proclivity for botching his lines or stumbling into malapropisms, especially at the end of the day. In Daytona Beach, Fla., recently, in the third of three appearances that day, he mistakenly said that the United States ''will not have an all-volunteer Army,'' then quickly corrected himself to say that it would not have a draft.
 But as for his crowds, he could read the Federal Register and still be drowned out regularly by applause. 
 There is humor, though always to make a point. ''In the last few years, the American people have gotten to know me,'' he said not long ago in St. Petersburg, Fla. ''They know my blunt way of speaking; I get that from Mother. They know I sometimes mangle the English language; I get that from Dad. They also know I tell you exactly what I'm going to do, and I keep my word.''
 There is red meat. ''There is a mainstream in American politics,'' Mr. Bush said in Wisconsin on Tuesday, ''and my opponent sits on the far left bank.''
 And there is always Sept. 11, 2001.
 Recounting at the end of his first speech on Tuesday how he stood in the rubble of the Twin Towers on Sept. 14, 2001, Mr. Bush said: ''There were workers in hard hats there yelling at the top of their lungs, 'Whatever it takes!' I'll never forget the sights and sounds. I'll never forget the person looking me straight in the eye and saying, 'Do not let me down.' Ever since that day, I wake up every morning trying to figure out how best to protect our country. I will never relent in protecting America, whatever it takes.''
 With that he reminds his audience that he promised four years ago to ''uphold the honor and dignity of the office'' and says he intends to do so for four more years.
 Then he is off to deliver the speech again.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his wife, Laura, were greeted by supporters yesterday at a rally in Onalaska, Wis. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRORISM (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); DICK CHENEY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Laura Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



629 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: In Reply to Tightening of Sanctions, Castro Bans the Yankee Dollar

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
In a televised address, President Fidel Castro of Cuba announced Monday night that United States dollars, which have kept his country's ailing economy afloat for the past decade, would be banned from all commercial transactions in two weeks.
 In his speech, Mr. Castro called the measure a response to the Bush administration's decisions to strengthen economic sanctions by placing new limits on the amount of money people can send to relatives in Cuba and imposing multimillion-dollar fines against banks that have transferred dollars to Cuba. 
 His aides said Cuba was ''protecting itself from external economic aggression,'' and they asked Cubans to tell their relatives to send euros, British pounds or Canadian dollars.
 After the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 sent the Cuban economy into a tailspin, the government legalized United States dollars as a way of attracting foreign investment and remittances. Since then the government has become dependent on dollars to buy everything from oil to food and medical supplies. Its people rely on an estimated $1 billion a year from relatives in the United States.
 After Nov. 8, though, stores, restaurants and other businesses will only accept a national currency known as the convertible peso, which has no value outside Cuba. Banks will end dollar transactions and convert dollar accounts to pesos. Officials announced that the government would charge Cubans a 10 percent fee to exchange dollars for pesos; there will be no fee to change other currencies to pesos.
 Diplomats and other political analysts saw the measures as more pragmatic than philosophical.
 Some analysts said that by forcing Cubans to turn in their dollars, Mr. Castro's government could then use the currency to buy needed food and fuel on the international market. 
 In recent weeks the country has suffered serious shortages of electricity. Blackouts are common most afternoons in neighborhoods across the capital. Several hotels have been forced to close for days at a time, and public pressure had grown so intense that Mr. Castro fired the minister of industry, who was considered a close political ally.
 ''I don't think this is a political decision at all,'' said Ricardo Pascoe, Mexico's former ambassador to Cuba. ''It's a pragmatic move. Cuba has to buy more oil than it had planned, and so it urgently needs dollars.''
 Marifeli Perez-Stable of the InterAmerican Dialogue, a policy institute in Washington, said Mr. Castro was using the American sanctions as a chance to seize more control over the Cuban economy. ''The Bush administration played right into his hands,'' she said, by giving him an excuse to justify ''exercising greater control over the population.''
 In Washington, The Associated Press quoted a State Department spokesman as saying the ban on dollars proved that Mr. Bush's policies were working. ''We think this is yet another indicator that Castro is refusing to do what's best for his own people,'' said the spokesman, Adam Ereli. ''It shows that he is cynically trying to preserve a bankrupt regime at his people's expense.''
 Across Havana, people lined up outside banks to get more information on the new policy and convert dollars to pesos. The banks are to stay open on Saturday and Sunday.
 While making his announcement, Mr. Castro, 78, wore a sling on his right arm and a cast on his left leg, results of his public fall after a speech five days ago. Since the accident, Mr. Castro has taken pains to show he is still in control of the government, including insisting on staying conscious during surgery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TRENDS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); BRITISH POUND (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (56%); POWER FAILURES (50%) Currency; Cuban-Americans; Economic Conditions and Trends; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (92%) Fidel (Pres) Castro; Ginger Thompson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



630 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Discord on North Korea as Powell Finishes East Asia Trip

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Su Hyun Lee contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
A trip to East Asia by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell aimed at forging a united front on North Korea ended Tuesday on a discordant note, with Mr. Powell rebuffing a suggestion by China and South Korea that they all show greater flexibility in pressing for an end to the North's nuclear program.
 The disagreement appeared to reinforce the diplomatic impasse over North Korea's nuclear activities and to make it unlikely that the North would end its boycott of regional talks on the issue anytime soon.
 Standing by Mr. Powell at a news conference, the South Korean foreign minister, Ban Ki Moon, said in response to a question that the United States and other partners in talks on nuclear issues ''must come up with a more creative and realistic proposal so that North Korea can come to the negotiating table as soon as possible.'' 
 Earlier, the official New Chinese News Agency released a similar comment from China's foreign minister, Li Zhaoxing. 
 ''We wish the U.S. side would go further to adopt a flexible and practical attitude on the issue,'' the press agency quoted Mr. Li as telling Mr. Powell during a meeting in Beijing on Monday. ''China will make efforts to push for a new round of six-party talks at the earliest date in a bid to carry on the hard-earned peaceful discussion process.''
 There was some confusion over Mr. Ban's remarks, because the English translation omitted his statement questioning the American approach. Afterward, South Korean journalists said the interpreter had left out the call for a more ''creative and realistic'' approach. 
 Mr. Powell appeared not to be aware of Mr. Ban's challenge, but he was clear in rejecting any suggestion that the United States modify its current stance along lines sought by North Korea.
 ''We have a good proposal on the table,'' Mr. Powell said, displaying some impatience. ''We modified it for the third round of talks in June. The way to move forward is to have the next round of six-party talks and not have a negotiation with ourselves at press conferences.''
 Mr. Powell said his visit had yielded commitments from China, Japan and South Korea to step up pressure on North Korea to restart the talks. ''Let's get going,'' he added. ''We hope that in the very near future the North Koreans will see it is in their interest to have the talks start again.''
 After his meeting here, Mr. Powell headed back to Washington after spending a day each in Japan, China and South Korea.
 The disagreement over how to deal with North Korea coincided with reports in the South of possible infiltration by the North through the heavily armed border area. South Korean papers headlined what defense officials said was a search for possible terrorists or spies.
 The Powell trip was the latest instance of problems addressing the crisis that began with the disclosure two years ago that North Korea had secretly been enriching uranium, apparently for a nuclear weapons program, in violation of a 1994 accord with the Clinton administration.
 The Bush administration has not only disagreed on occasion with other countries on whether to engage in talks with North Korea and how many concessions to offer, but top administration officials are also divided. Some conservatives in Congress, fearing too many concessions, are calling for a strategy of ''regime change.''
 This month Congress passed and President Bush signed into law a resolution insisting that progress on human rights be a part of any deal with North Korea. Some moderates in the administration and many in Asia fear that such an approach might derail the talks.
 The administration has adopted a tough stance on concessions, but in response to demands for negotiations has enlisted China, Russia, South Korea and Japan in confronting the North. The diplomacy has not yielded much progress.
 In June, the Bush administration yielded to pressure from some of its Asian partners and agreed to let Japan and South Korea -- but not the United States -- offer the North a package of energy and economic aid if the North committed itself to ending its nuclear program in a verifiable way.
 But last week, North Korea demanded that the United States take part in the aid package as a condition for its returning to the negotiations. Mr. Powell said North Korea should first return to the talks, where the demand could be discussed.
 The impasse is not likely to broken soon, many experts say, at least until the American presidential election is over. Meanwhile, suspicions are growing in the West that North Korea may be moving steadily to amass enough nuclear material for at least two and perhaps as many as six or eight bombs.
 In a sign of disagreement over the role of human rights as requested in the Congressional resolution, Foreign Minister Ban of South Korea said that although human rights should be honored everywhere, caution might be in order for North Korea.
 He said ''the particular situation'' of North Korea's government ''has to be taken into account when we deal with these kinds of issues'' and that ''this matter should not have a negative effect'' on the negotiations.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell with Foreign Minister Ban Ki Moon of South Korea yesterday in Seoul. Mr. Powell rebuffed a suggestion that the United States show more flexibility in dealing with North Korea. (Photo by Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); JOURNALISM (75%); NEWS REPORTING (73%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (89%) Colin L (Sec) Powell; Ban Ki Moon (Min); Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%) North Korea; South Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



631 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: The Best Political News of 2004

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Good news is no news. That's why the most historic development of this news-drenched year has not been on front pages and hasn't led TV newscasts.
 Against all dire predictions and threats from terrorists, Afghanistan -- breeding ground of Al Qaeda under the medieval rule of Taliban fundamentalists -- has just held the first presidential election in its bloodstained history. 
 The winner was Hamid Karzai, 46, a politician of the majority Pashtuns, who emerged with 55 percent of the eight million votes cast. The runner-up, Yunus Qanooni, received 1.2 million votes; after grumbling about a few hundred stuffed ballot boxes, Mr. Qanooni, a hero of the minority Tajik population, yesterday conceded Karzai's victory. 
 A bigger winner was the Afghan people. Their men -- fierce nationalists who used U.S. munitions to humiliate the Red Army, thereby hastening the demise of the Soviet Union -- had fallen victim to regional dissension and Taliban fanatics supported by Arab terrorists. Their women were hidden at home and treated like slaves. Now, thanks to the U.S.-led intervention and their own willingness to fight for freedom, Afghans lined up to vote in the first presidential election in that nation's history.
 The biggest winner of this unfettering event is the cause of democracy in the world, and especially in this region, which much of the West assumed was too culturally backward to express a longing for freedom. 
 We should not be so wrapped up in our own political campaign to fail to recognize the power of this message: if the loosely connected Afghan tribes can do majority rule and minority respect, so could the more literate Iraqis, numerous Egyptians, rich Saudis and misled Palestinians.
 American and British Wilsonian idealists can hold their heads high today; the defeatists who presume to call themselves realists were defeated.
 It came about, first, because American power -- and our vengeful will to do justice after 9/11 -- made it possible. Our long-range and naval air power and Special Operations forces provided decisive backing to the indigenous Tajik Northern Alliance resistance. With prodigious economic and political pressure, U.S. diplomats induced Pakistan to double-cross its Taliban ally and join our war on the terrorist haven. 
 It came about, second, because we had a trio of Afghan-Americans in the diaspora who could step into the transition without appearing to be occupiers: the neocon Zalmay Khalilzad became our ambassador in Kabul, joined by Ashraf Ghani of Johns Hopkins University as minister of finance and Ali Ahmed Jalali of the Voice of America as interior minister.
 Charles Fairbanks Jr. notes in the current Weekly Standard that all three will have to bail out as local Afghans take full charge, but nation-building requires talented emissaries who speak the language and relate to the people.
 As those who believe that democracy stands no chance in Iraq are quick to point out, Afghan progress also came about because we brought along NATO allies girded with a U.N. blessing. There is no denying this has played an important part in success so far, though not the central part.
 More of the credit should go to President Bush's shrewd choice of a leader who turned out to be Afghanistan's choice this week. Karzai is one gutsy, deft and appealing politician. With his appointments and parceling out of U.S. aid, for the past three years he has split the ethnic opposition, undercut the most dangerous warlord and built a coalition that ran a winning campaign. 
 The crucial moment came early, I'm informed, as he was juggling political plums to create a governing coalition, when a group of tribal elders told him bluntly: ''If you have the U.S. behind you, we're behind you; otherwise, no.'' We were there for him; now he's there for democracy, and we should invest strongly in his nation's growth. 
 A nascent republic needs its Ataturk, its Nehru, its Adenauer. With his overwhelming election mandate, the shyly charismatic Karzai can better combat the corrupting power of the poppy growers, and then turn to the next stage in building a democracy: electing a parliament. 
 The embodiment of this year's good news is an optimist. I asked him recently when he expected Osama bin Laden to be caught. He replied, ''You can't be a fugitive forever.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); ARMIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%) Elections; Politics and Government; Terrorism; Afghan-Americans; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) Taliban (Afghan Group); Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (79%) Hamid (Pres) Karzai; William Safire; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



632 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: REGISTRATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: As Voting Rolls Increase, So Do The Wild Cards

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO; Albert Salvato contributed reporting from Cincinnati for this article.

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Lionel White seems like the kind of new voter who could help the Democrats win this crucial swing state. He is 23, black, works at a fast food restaurant and is angry about the economy, urban blight and the war in Iraq.
 But Mr. White registered himself to vote this year for the first time because he was getting paid by the Urban League to register others. He did not watch the debates, confesses to having a marginal interest in politics and feels the candidates are not talking about issues he cares about. He is lukewarm at best about going to the polls next week.
 ''I don't think either one of them gives a damn about us,'' he said of the two main presidential candidates while standing on the stoop of his house on the east side of this city. 
 As Mr. White's story suggests, many newly registered voters are wild cards whose uncertain allegiances could tip the vote in closely contested states like this one, making such voters the focus of an intense tug of war between the parties.
 Certainly, their numbers are legion. In Ohio, nearly three-quarters of a million people registered to vote this year, bringing the state's total registration to over 7.8 million, a record. In Iowa, Florida and Pennsylvania as well, registration drives -- largely by Democratic groups -- have swelled voter rolls to new levels, raising the likelihood that more people will vote this year than since the high-turnout year of 1992, experts said. 
 The new voters' potential to decide the election has become graphically evident in the streets, on the airwaves and in courtrooms of this state, where Democrats have marched with placards proclaiming ''every vote counts,'' and Republicans have been determinedly challenging thousands of new registrations as fraudulent.
 But a fundamental question remains: will the new voters vote? Historically, newly registered voters -- because they are younger, more independent or less politically engaged -- have voted at lower rates than the rest of the electorate, typically under 50 percent, experts say. 
 A visit to a Columbus neighborhood where Democratic groups registered voters this year shows the challenge the Kerry campaign faces. Of the six new registrants listed on county records on a single block, three had recently moved, one could not be found and one was listed at a nonexistent address. 
 Only those people who registered themselves because of their intense interest in the race are highly likely to vote, experts say. Christopher Marshall is one. 
 In his 37 years, Mr. Marshall has fathered four children and witnessed the comings and goings of eight presidents. But he has never voted. This year, the war in Iraq made the election seem vital and important.
 Now, he says he plans to cast his first-ever ballot for Senator John Kerry. ''It's the war,'' Mr. Marshall, a customer service assistant for the state health department, said outside his home on Columbus's East Side. ''It was unnecessary, completely.''
 Sandra Santabene, a 62-year-old retiree living in the Cincinnati suburb of West Chester, has been nearly as politically disengaged as Mr. Marshall. Mrs. Santabene had kicked the voting habit two elections ago, finding the candidates unappealing and the discourse shallow -- or just plain low. But she has registered again to cast her ballot for President Bush.
 ''I think Bush will do a better job on medications, maybe get the price down,'' Mrs. Santabene said, referring to prescription drugs. ''I don't see Kerry doing that.''
 Just who votes is so critical because the race is so close in several states. Polls show Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry essentially tied in Ohio, and both major parties have started operations focused on getting the new voters to the polls. The Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday that Ralph Nader would not be on Ohio's ballot.
 But with as many as 60 percent of the new registrations thought to be for Mr. Kerry in Ohio -- people here do not register by party, leaving partisan breakdowns imprecise -- Republicans have intensified efforts to ferret out fraud and raise questions about the validity of new voters in Democratic precincts. 
 Last week, the Ohio Republican Party challenged more than 35,000 new registrations after mail sent to those addresses was returned as undeliverable. Several thousand of those challenges have been withdrawn because of technical problems with the challenge forms. But the Republicans say they will push for a review of about 14,000 registrations in the Cleveland area, the heart of Mr. Kerry's support in Ohio. 
 The Ohio Republicans also plan to have people in more than 3,600 polling places, mostly in heavily Democratic urban areas, to challenge the right of people to vote on Election Day itself. And they are pressing for criminal investigations into accusations of fraudulent registrations in Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and several other cities. 
 ''We're just seeing a portion of the problem,'' said David Beckwith, a Bush campaign spokesman in Ohio. 
 Democrats say the Republican antifraud campaign amounts to an effort to suppress voting in Democratic areas, particularly black communities. Acorn, a nonprofit group that conducted voter registration in poor neighborhoods, asserts that 46 percent of the Republican challenges in Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, were against black people, who represent only 27 percent of the county's population.
 Republicans said their challenges were not based on race and they questioned the validity of the Acorn analysis, saying the group has been responsible for widespread voter registration fraud.
 Ohio is not alone in its flood of new voters. Pennsylvania topped eight million voters this year, a first, with Democrats adding nearly 11,000 more new registrants than the Republicans, according to Pennsylvania's Department of State. Florida has added more than a million voters since February, hitting a record 10.3 million registered voters. Democrats there registered nearly 45,000 more voters than the Republicans in that period, state records show.
 Curtis Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, a nonpartisan group, predicts that the surge in registration makes it likely that 12 million to 15 million more people will vote this year than in 2000. 
 A Gallup poll released this week also indicated that Mr. Kerry was leading Mr. Bush by about 10 points among people who say they are voting for president for the first time, though the sample was small. 
 Still, the track record for new voters is not strong. Many are young people, a group that historically has turned out at lower rates. Among adults, many of the new registrants come from highly transient, lower-income neighborhoods, where voter participation also has been historically low. Some were swept up in voter registration drives but have little interest in politics. And many had simply moved since the last election.
 ''Voting is a habit, and many new voters are people who do not have the habit,'' said John Green, director of the Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron. ''Even with very heavy get-out-the-vote operations, it would be unusual if you could get more than 50 percent of them to vote.''
 For Democrats, college students have been an important source of new voters. A poll by the Institute of Politics at Harvard found that Mr. Kerry was leading Mr. Bush among college students by 52 percent to 39 percent. The poll also showed that 72 percent of students said they would ''definitely'' vote this year.
 But the colleges are far from monolithic. Erich Bittner, a 19-year-old political science student at Ohio State University, plans to vote for Mr. Bush, mainly because he supports the president's approach to the war on Iraq. ''If Kerry becomes president, he'll leave Iraq as soon as possible,'' Mr. Bittner said.
 Though influenced by his parents' conservative views, he says he now views the Republican Party ''as my party.'' And he contrasted his own firm partisanship with the more independent, less certain views of his classmates. 
 ''I have so many friends who don't know who they'll vote for,'' Mr. Bittner said. ''They say they'll vote, but they plan to go to the polls and vote for the lesser of two evils, whoever that might be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THE HEARTLAND -- On his final campaign bus tour, President Bush held Andrew Evenson, 18 months old, yesterday at a rally in Onalaska, Wis. Mr. Bush visited farmers and small-business owners. Page A15. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Christopher Marshall, 37, has never voted but he says he is now moved to do so because he opposes the president's handling of the war in Iraq. (Photo by Greg Sailor for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); POLITICS (75%); COUNTIES (73%) Presidential Election of 2004; Registration of Voters; Voting Requirements and Voters; Blacks; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) James Dao; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Christopher (Ohio Voter) Marshall

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Ohio; Pennsylvania; Florida; Iowa; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



633 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
JACOBS, JOSEPH J.

 BODY:
 JACOBS -- Joseph J. The Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, students and alumni of Polytechnic University mourn the passing of Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs, alumnus, generous benefactor and 1986 Honorary Doctorate of Engineering recipient of the University. He twice served as chairman of Polytechnic's Board of Trustees and was a lifetime trustee. Dr. Jacobs held four Polytechnic degrees, and was founder and board chairman of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., an international engineering and construction firm based in Pasadena, CA. His humanitarian endeavors included the establishment of the Jacobs Family Foundation to promote community-based economic development, aid families and youths at risk and provide educational and other opportunities to underrepresented groups. In 2002, in recognition of his selfless dedication to his alma mater, Polytechnic named its new academic building in his and his wife's honor. The Joseph J. and Violet J. Jacobs Building at Metro Tech Center in downtown Brooklyn, NY, stands as a tribute to the generosity and devotion of the Jacobs family to Polytechnic. Among the many honors bestowed upon him, Dr. Jacobs was elected to the National Academy of Engineering and named a fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, of the American Institute of Chemists and of the Institute for the Advancement of Engineering. In 1983, President Ronald Reagan presented him with the Hoover Medal, which recognizes the civic and humanitarian achievements of professional engineers. Dr. Jacobs was also an accomplished author and published two books, The Anatomy of an Entrepreneur: Family, Culture and Ethics and The Compassionate Conservative: Assuming Responsibility and Respecting Human Dignity. 
Joe's wise counsel, generous spirit and gentle humor will be sorely missed by the University, but his memory will live on at Polytechnic. Our sympathies are with his wife and three daughters, Dr. Linda Jacobs, Margaret Jacobs and Valerie Jacobs Hapke and their families. Stewart G. Nagler, Chairman David C. Chang, President Polytechnic University 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); WRITERS (69%); ETHICS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERS (55%)

TICKER: JEC (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (72%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



634 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Attacks Bush Over Loss of Explosives

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry lambasted President Bush on Tuesday over the disappearance in Iraq of a huge cache of powerful explosives, saying the president's response to ''devastating facts'' about the explosives called into question his competence as commander in chief.
 Mr. Kerry said the White House had first tried to conceal those facts until after Election Day, then minimized them when they emerged and finally denied them.
 ''And what did the president have to say about the missing explosives? Not a word. Complete silence,'' Mr. Kerry bellowed in Green Bay, Wis., all but daring Mr. Bush to answer him. 
 ''Mr. President, what else are you being silent about?'' he asked. ''What else are you keeping from the American people? How much more will the American people have to pay?''
 The disappearance of the explosives has roiled the presidential campaign since the report on Monday, by The New York Times and CBS News, that some of them may have been removed from an ammunition dump after American troops passed by and failed to secure the area. Officials from the International Atomic Energy Agency had warned American officials before the war began that nearly 380 tons of high explosives were hidden at the stockpile called Al Qaqaa. 
 In Pensacola, Fla., on Tuesday afternoon, Vice President Dick Cheney said it was ''not at all clear'' that the explosives were still in the stockpile when American troops arrived, and he suggested that Mr. Kerry was insulting the accomplishments of American troops.
 ''John Kerry doesn't mention that, nor does he mention the 400,000 tons of weapons and explosives that our troops have captured and are destroying,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''If our troops had not gone into Iraq, as John Kerry apparently thinks they should not have, that is 400,000 tons of weapons and explosives that would be in the hands of Saddam Hussein, who would still be sitting in his palace, instead of jail.''
 Republican officials have sought to discredit the initial reports and seized on an NBC News account, broadcast Monday night, that said when troops from the 101st Airborne arrived at the vast site on April 10, 2003, they found conventional weapons but none of the extremely powerful high explosives, HMX and RDX, which can be used to set off a nuclear weapon. In an e-mail message sent to reporters on Monday evening, Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said, ''The weapons were not there when the military arrived, making John Kerry's latest ripped-from-the-headlines attack baseless and false.'' 
 But Tuesday evening, NBC again reported on the issue. This time it reported that it had not said that the explosives were gone before American troops arrived at Al Qaqaa. Instead, it reported that troops from the Third Infantry Division and the 101st Airborne searched bunkers at the site and had not found the powerful explosives. NBC reported that it was not clear whether American troops searched all of the bunkers.
 ''Last night on this broadcast we reported that the 101st Airborne never found the nearly 380 tons of HMX and RDX explosives,'' Tom Brokaw, the NBC anchor, said. ''We did not conclude the explosives were missing or had vanished, nor did we say they missed the explosives. We simply reported that the 101st did not find them.''
 ''For its part, the Bush campaign immediately pointed to our report as conclusive proof that the weapons had been removed before the Americans arrived,'' Mr. Brokaw added. ''That is possible, but that is not what we reported.''
 For the second day Mr. Bush did not speak about the issue, twice ignoring questions from reporters. 
 Mr. Kerry's efforts to use the disappearance of the explosives to question the president's competence as commander in chief, both on Iraq and on domestic security, signaled that he would take aim directly at Mr. Bush's chief rationale for re-election: that he is better prepared to lead a war against terrorists. 
 As he raced from Wisconsin to Nevada and on to New Mexico and Iowa, Mr. Kerry accused the president of diverting American forces and intelligence operatives to Iraq from the hunt in Afghanistan for Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda. He said this had ''allowed Osama to get away'' and allowed Al Qaeda to spread to other countries.
 ''Global terrorism is increasing, not receding,'' Mr. Kerry declared. ''When a commander in chief makes the wrong decisions, America's security pays the price.''
 As Mr. Bush spent his campaign appearances Tuesday in Wisconsin and Iowa on the economy, Mr. Kerry devoted half of his remarks to Iraq and the missing explosives.
 He noted that RDX had been used to down Pan Am 103 and to attack the destroyer Cole in Yemen, and said that the explosives could be used to ''demolish entire buildings'' and ''kill our troops.''
 ''Faced with these devastating facts, these realities, these challenges that require presidential judgment, what did the president do?'' Mr. Kerry said. ''First he tried to hide the information until after the election. He stood in front of the American people, day after day, telling us how much progress we are making in Iraq and how much safer we are under his leadership, without ever mentioning the loss of these explosives.
 ''And when the media reported the loss, what did the White House have to say? First, they said they couldn't guard the weapons caches because they had other priorities.''
 ''Then they argued that losing the explosives really wasn't that big a deal,'' Mr. Kerry added. ''Finally, at the end of the day, the White House just boldly declared it didn't happen. Without a shred of evidence to dispute the International Atomic Energy Agency, they just flatly said the weapons were gone by the time our troops got there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EXPLOSIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Terrorism; United States International Relations

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (57%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



635 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Lead a Rally, With Help From Bargain Hunters 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks strode higher yesterday as shares in insurance companies rallied after Marsh & McLennan's decision to replace its chief executive in the face of a continuing investigation. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.4 percent.
 Analysts attributed at least some of the day's rise to bargain hunting as October comes to a close. Many mutual funds end their fiscal year in October, and their managers then reposition their holdings and make new bets. This was reflected in the buying in some beaten-down sectors, including financial, health care and pharmaceutical stocks. 
 ''I would say half of it is relief over the insurance stocks and the other half is end-of-October bargain hunting,'' said Matt Kelmon, portfolio manager of the Kelmoore Strategy Funds. ''People want to sell their losers and ride the winners. Then on the other side, there are people not wanting to make any decisions ahead of the election.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 138.49 points, to 9,888.48. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 16.28 points, or 1.5 percent, at 1,111.09. The Nasdaq composite index rose 14.75 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,928.79.
 Worries about job prospects drove consumer confidence lower for a third consecutive month, according to the latest reading by the Conference Board. The drop of 3.9 points in the group's consumer confidence index was steeper than forecast, bringing the reading to 92.8; analysts had expected it to fall to 94. The drop raised questions about how robust spending is likely to be during the holiday shopping season.
 Uncomfortably high energy prices are another potential source of pressure on consumer spending, and there was little relief in sight yesterday. Light crude futures settled 63 cents higher at $55.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The insurance sector got a lift after Marsh & McLennan named a new chief executive and announced a series of changes in hopes of appeasing Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, who is in the midst of an investigation of bid-rigging at the company.
 Marsh & McLennan shares climbed $2.45, or 9.3 percent, to $28.87, on news that Mr. Spitzer did not plan to pursue criminal charges against the company. Other insurers rallied on the belief that this reduces the likelihood other companies would be charged in the inquiry. American International Group rose $4.23, or 7.5 percent, to $60.33.
 Strong earnings from Lockheed Martin and Halliburton, along with a strong profit outlook from General Electric, cheered many investors, though DuPont, a component of the Dow average, fell despite a credible third-quarter performance.
 Lockheed Martin added 88 cents, to $54.38, as its information technology business offset a slumping space division, helping the company post a 41 percent jump in earnings. 
 General Electric gained 73 cents, to $33.63, as it backed Wall Street's view of its fourth-quarter and its full-year profit forecasts.
 Halliburton added $1.38, or 4 percent, to $35.73, even as the company swung to a loss, weighed down by continued settlements of asbestos claims. Without the one-time losses, the company would have exceeded profit forecasts by 6 cents a share.
 DuPont fell 78 cents, to $41.40, after it swung to a profit in the third quarter despite higher raw-materials costs. Some investors worried that materials and energy costs would eventually sap profits.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 7/32, to a price of 102. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4 percent from 3.97 percent on Monday.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.858
High Rate: 1.760
Coupon Yield: 1.787
Low Rate: 1.710
Median Rate: 1.740
Total applied for: $37,131,082
Accepted: $21,322,082
Noncompetitive: $70,858

The four-week bills mature Nov. 25, 2004.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.626
High Yield: 0.950
Low Yield: 0.800
Median Yield: 0.896
Accepted at low price: 50%
Total applied for: $21,652,511
Accepted: $12,000,035
Noncompetitive: $128,036
Interest set at: 7/8%

The 5-year inflation notes mature April 15, 2010.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FUTURES (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); SPACE INDUSTRY (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (68%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (85%); MHM (LSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%); LMT (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004



636 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Johannesburg Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Speaking of Fences, Street Crime and, Ultimately, Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
As Nick Karvelas would be quick to point out, this is not a Robert Frost kind of town. 
 Mr. Frost, as an American schoolchild could testify, is the poet who once wrote that ''good fences make good neighbors.'' That should make Johannesburgers exceptional ones: in the last decade, they have erected fences and gates that block off 1,245 ostensibly public streets from the outside world. 
 In practice, of course, the barriers are the antithesis of neighborliness. Their purpose is to shield the people behind them -- mostly better-off whites -- from an epidemic of street crime, largely by lower-class blacks. 
 Which is why Mr. Karvelas is on a single-minded crusade to tear them down. The notion that whites can bar poor blacks from city streets, he insists, is not just illegal. It's a throwback to the days when millions of blacks were herded into homelands and townships, and barred from walking in white areas without a government pass. 
 ''I just firmly believe that people actually went from fencing the masses in to fencing the masses out,'' he said. ''I really believe that this is just another form of apartheid.'' 
 Mr. Karvelas, a white school principal and university lecturer when he is not tilting at fences, has formed a lobbying group and a Web site to promote his cause. He has pestered Johannesburg's government, hinted at a lawsuit testing the constitutionality of street barriers and, last month, argued his case before the national Human Rights Council. 
 In most big cities, he might be dismissed as that ubiquitous brand of civic gadfly that buzzes irritatingly around every council meeting. Indeed, in most big cities, the issue of street closings would be settled in soporific sessions of traffic-department subcommittees or neighborhood councils. 
 Not in Johannnesburg. Here, it resonates among rich and poor, black and white alike. The debate over street closings not only poses thorny questions about balancing a person's right to walk freely and a homeowner's right to be safe. It also challenges a notion that still binds this multiracial society together 10 years after apartheid's demise -- the concept of a miraculous rainbow nation, sprung fully formed from Nelson Mandela's tolerant brow. 
 Mr. Karvelas's stridency aside, however, this is not entirely a black-and-white issue, in more ways than one. 
 Street barriers (South Africans call them ''booms'') first sprang up in the city's wealthier northern suburbs after the 1994 transition to majority rule -- and the exodus of many white civil servants -- led to a dramatic decline in police protection and a rise in violent crime. 
 It is crime, not race, that is behind the boom in booms, their advocates say. 
 Johannesburg is widely touted as one of the world's most violent cities, a reputation the government says is itself a racist myth. Myth or not, crime is a headache: relying on 2001 police data, the highly regarded Center for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation concluded that one in 110 residents had been robbed at gunpoint that year, one in 605 had been carjacked and one in 1,332 murdered. 
 By comparison, the F.B.I. says that one in 2,431 Detroiters was murdered in 2001, and one in 134 was robbed. The comparable figures for New York City were one in 12,195 murdered and one in 284 robbed. Most of that crime was in poor areas. Whether most suburbanites are at real risk or just fearful may be debatable. What seems less disputable is that the barriers do cut crime for those behind them. 
 Alphen Park, a middle-class neighborhood just east of downtown Johannesburg, suffered scores of carjackings, robberies, car thefts and a murder before winning permission to boom its entrance street. ''In two and one-half years, there's been zero crime,'' George W. Botha, whose company oversees barriers and anticrime work in that and nearby neighborhoods, said in a telephone interview. ''No hijacks. No rapes. A clothing iron was taken out of a kitchen, I think.'' 
 A lobby for street barriers in about 40 neighborhoods, the Combined Chairpersons for Road Closures, makes its case bluntly. ''This place is somewhat different from your 'society norm,''' the group's leader, Pat Redford, wrote in an e-mail message. ''We have driveway robberies taking place all the time, hijackings constantly, armed robberies, all inflicted on all colors and economic categories of citizens who cannot rely on a competent police force.'' 
 Judith Stockhill, a council member for the boom-laden Sandhurst neighborhood, says she is annoyed by the argument that fences and gates exclude blacks to make whites feel safe. Most victims in her area, she said, are black workers commuting on foot between Sandhurst domestic and gardening jobs and the nearby poor township of Alexandra. 
 ''The victims of crime are predominantly black, because the population is predominantly black,'' she said. ''And because they have to travel on streets after dark or before dawn, they're vulnerable. They certainly benefit from secure streets.'' 
 ''Pseudoliberals,'' Mr. Karvelas responds. ''We've looked at booms. The guards don't treat white females the same way as white males, and they don't treat black males on foot the same way. As one guy said at the Human Rights Council hearings, if the guy's suspicious-looking, they stop him.'' 
 It is this debate that in part led the Human Rights Council to take up the issue of barriers. The council will issue a nonbinding opinion on the booms' usefulness next month. Mr. Karvelas said he intended to argue next to the national security ministry that the booms are constitutionally illegal -- a form of vigilantism not unlike the occasional takeover of major highways by mobs of poor people protesting the lack of municipal services in their neighborhoods. 
 But Mr. Karvelas likely has miles to go in this battle before he sleeps. While the Johannesburg city government discourages the barriers, it also has taken steps to legalize those that meet a set of guidelines, including having the backing of 80 percent of residents behind them. The city's mayor lives behind a gated street. And -- as President Thabo Mbeki noted in a recent essay on race and crime in his nation -- so do a growing number of wealthy blacks.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A security guard, Larsen Monashane, above, registers a car at a barrier in Benoni, a Johannesburg suburb. George W. Botha, with Mr. Monashane at left, works for a company that oversees barriers and other efforts to stem a tide of carjackings, robberies, car thefts and killings. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)Map of South Africa highlighting Johannesburg: Some Johannesburg areas are fighting crime with street barriers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); WRITERS (77%); LITIGATION (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); WALKING & JOGGING (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); LOBBYING (67%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (51%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Crime and Criminals

PERSON: Nick Karvelas; Michael Wines

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (94%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) South Africa; Johannesburg (South Africa); South Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



637 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

DreamWorks Animation Raises $812 Million
DreamWorks SKG has priced shares of its animation unit above the level expected, raising $812 million in an initial public offering.
 Heavy demand from investors for Dreamworks Animation SKG pushed the sale of 29 million shares to $28 a share, from an initial estimate of $23 to $25. Shares of Dreamworks Animation SKG will begin trading today under the symbol DWA on the New York Stock Exchange. Market Place. [Page C4.]

Ex-Macy's Chief to Head Penney
Myron E. Ullman III, left, a longtime retail executive who headed Macy's during its bankruptcy and recently led the luxury conglomerate LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, will replace Allen I. Questrom as chief executive of J.C. Penney. His appointment leaves Vanessa Castagna, who had been the top internal candidate and who has been credited with leading many of the recent changes at Penney, without a clearly defined future. [C4.]

A Promising Therapy From Pfizer
Sildenafil citrate, the ingredient in Viagra, Pfizer's impotence pill, has proven effective in a clinical trial as a treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension -- high pressure in the artery carrying blood to the lungs. [C8.]

Need for Oil Investment Cited
As high prices raise concerns about future supplies of oil, the International Energy Agency stressed the need for oil-producing countries and oil companies to increase their investments in finding and pumping oil. [C9.]

Systems for Auto Stability Helpful
A study by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety found that the stability systems available in some cars and trucks can reduce the risk of getting in an accident. [C4.]

A Takeover Bid for Drug Company
The private equity unit of J.P. Morgan and the DLJ merchant banking group of Credit Suisse First Boston offered to acquire the Irish pharmaceutical company Warner Chilcott for $:1.62 billion ($3 billion). [C8.]

Earnings Soar 54% at Oil Company
ConocoPhillips reported a 54 percent increase in third-quarter profit as margins widened on diesel and other fuels and oil prices surged. Sales climbed 31 percent. The company expanded in countries with growing oil production, including Vietnam, Russia and Venezuela, as output declined from older fields in the United States and the North Sea. [C4.]

Profit rose 14 percent at Procter & Gamble on strong sales in all regions. [C2.]

Robust demand for military equipment and technology led Boeing and Northrop Grumman to post higher earnings. [C4.]

Comcast and Cox Communications reported strong profit and revenue growth because of growing demand for their digital video services and high-speed Internet connections. [C6.]

Kroll Offices in Brazil Raided
Police seized documents and arrested five people in a raid on the Brazilian offices of Kroll and a local private equity firm. [C8.]

Stocks Rally as Oil Prices Drop
Stocks rose sharply as investors expressed relief over a drop in oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 113.55 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,002.03. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 14.31 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,125.40; and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 41.20 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,969.99. [C9.]

Moving Ideas Off Campus
In a financial bonanza for many universities, an increasing number of entrepreneurial students are helping commercialize technologies developed in their schools' laboratories. [C6.]

Where Are the Economists?
In the push for greater regulation after the corporate scandals, economists are notably absent. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,002.03 up 113.55Nasdaq composite -- 1,969.99 up 41.2010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.09% up 0.09The euro -- $1.2705 down 0.0066The dollar -- 106.51 yen down 0.21Graph tracks the daily closing price of ConocoPhillips shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); RETAIL SALES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INSURANCE (73%); MERCHANT BANKING (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); CLINICAL TRIALS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); HYPERTENSION (66%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); DIESEL FUEL (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (96%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PFIZER INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); WARNER CHILCOTT PLC (53%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); BOEING CO (51%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%); INSURANCE INSTITUTE FOR HIGHWAY SAFETY (54%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (96%); MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%); COP (NYSE) (83%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); WCRX (NASDAQ) (53%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); NOC (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (51%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



638 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew Faster Than Expected, Helped by Home Sales

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods rose in September for the third time in four months and sales of new homes unexpectedly increased, signs that manufacturers and builders helped the economy accelerate, two reports released yesterday indicated. 
 Another report said that corporate spending and a rebound in consumer purchases helped the economy grow at an annual rate of 4.3 percent last quarter, a percentage point higher than the previous three months. 
 Orders for durable goods, which are items made to last at least three years, increased 0.2 percent, to $195.7 billion, driven by demand for military hardware and business equipment, the Commerce Department said. 
 When transportation equipment was excluded, orders for durable goods rose 1.7 percent, after a 2.8 percent increase in August. A measure of business equipment orders rose the most since March, the department reported. 
 Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent rise in orders for durable goods, to $196.4 billion, based on the median of forecasts from 70 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Orders, excluding transportation equipment, were expected to increase 0.3 percent, according to the survey. 
 New home sales rose 3.5 percent, to an annual rate of 1.2 million, the third fastest on record. Analysts had expected home sales to decline to an annual rate of 1.15 million. Growth was constrained in September and early October as oil costs, which remained more than 75 percent above levels from a year earlier, held back consumer and business spending and lifted prices for some goods and services, the Federal Reserve said in a survey of regional economic conditions known as the beige book. 
 ''The likelihood is that demand is going to soften again, given the high energy prices,'' said Peter Kretzmer, a senior economist at Banc of America Securities. ''The economy will slow late in the fourth quarter and into early 2005.'' 
 The Fed is expected to raise the overnight bank lending rate at its Nov. 10 meeting, based on the median forecast in another Bloomberg survey, which would be the fourth increase since June. 
 The Fed is trying to balance prospects for continued growth against the possibility that energy costs will trigger faster inflation. Crude oil for December delivery reached a record $55.67 a barrel in futures trading in New York this week before dropping. 
 New home purchases rose in every region but the West last month, fueled by 30-year mortgage rates that remained below 6 percent. Sales of new homes this year will reach 1.16 million, surpassing last year's record 1.08 million, according to the latest forecast by the National Association of Home Builders. 
 The median selling price dropped 8.4 percent in September, to $197,700 from $215,900 the previous month, the biggest percentage decline since 1981. Prices were still up 3 percent from a year earlier. The drop in September prices was influenced by purchases of starter homes costing less than $150,000, which accounted for a greater percentage of the total.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about a 0.2 percent increase in orders for durable goods in September misattributed a forecast for economic growth. The forecast, which said that government data due to be released today were likely to report economic growth of 4.3 percent in the third quarter, appeared in a survey of economists by Bloomberg News, not in a government report.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Most Regions Experience Modest Growth''A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued yesterday by the Fed.Minneapolis -- Commercial real estate and consumer spending rose. Heating oil experienced significant price increases.Chicago -- Economic activity increased modestly. Businesses reported weak consumer spending.New York -- The region's economy slowed. Retail sales were below expectations and tourism softened a little.Cleveland -- Production levels steadied while retail sales weakened. Commercial construction experienced modest gains.Richmond, Va. -- The region's economy grew on increased manufacturing production and strengthened service industriesAtlanta -- Retail sales, construction and manufacturing continued to suffer losses because of the recent hurricanes.Philadelphia -- Factory orders and shipments continued to grow. Retailers reported an increase in general merchandise sales.Boston -- Retailers and manufacturers report an increase in sales from a year earlier. Record energy prices caused concern.St. Louis -- Residential real estate strengthened while retailers and autodealers reported sales that were ''flat to slightly down.''Kansas City, Mo. -- Manufacturing, retailers, and labor markets experienced improvement. Commercial real estate was soft.Dallas -- Manufacturers, retailers and business services reported growth, although retail sales grew at a slower pace than earlier in the year.San Francisco -- Growth of the region's economy cooled slightly. Residential real estate remained robust.Map of United States highlighting cities mentioned above.(Source by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FUTURES (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Corporations; Consumer Behavior; Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System; National Assn of Home Builders

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



639 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; NATURE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Forever Green

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
FIVE years ago a priceless collection of 150 rare ornamental conifers at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx was so tangled up in weed trees and Japanese bittersweet that most visitors did not know it was there.
 But since then the jungle has been cleared, and 200 new conifers, many of them dwarfs suitable for small gardens, have been added. When the area opens on Saturday as the Benenson Ornamental Conifers, visitors will be able to walk -- or ride an open-air shuttle -- through 15 acres of some of the world's most coveted ornamental trees.
 At the top of a rocky ridge they will see a grove of 11 giant dawn redwoods, whose fluted trunks rise 85 feet to the sky. This prehistoric conifer was thought to be extinct until 1941, when a Chinese forester, T. Kan, found it growing in a remote valley in central China. Those in the conifer collection were planted in 1950, from seeds collected in 1947. 
 Visitors will also be able to admire a weeping blue atlas cedar, leaning 20 feet across a rocky outcropping, and a Rheingold arborvitae nearby, artfully placed 60 years ago to catch the light of the setting sun.
 ''We literally discovered these glorious plants as we peeled away the rogues' gallery of things that had gone to seed,'' said Todd Forrest, the associate vice president of horticulture and living collections at the Botanical Garden.
 The specimen trees are among 200 conifers given to the garden in the late 1940's by Robert H. Montgomery, a wealthy accountant, who traveled across this country and Europe seeking choice plants to grow at his home, Wild Acres, near Cos Cob, Conn. He loved dwarf varieties and anything weeping or blue, and he had an eye for the quirky plants gardeners might want for yards smaller than his own 100-acre country estate. 
 One find, a dwarf Colorado spruce with dense powder-blue needles and a pyramid shape, was named after him in 1949: Picea pungens R. H. Montgomery, now one of the most widely planted conifers in America.
 ''Every Montgomery blue spruce is a descendant of this tree,'' Mr. Forrest said one overcast day last week, standing by a 15-footer that was planted in 1949 and has steadily grown at the rate of less than three inches a year.
 Mr. Montgomery gave away his conifers when he retired to Florida, where he grew interested in palms and with David Fairchild, the plant explorer, founded the Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden in Miami. 
 The New York Botanical Garden commissioned Marion Cruger Coffin, who designed the Winterthur gardens in Delaware for Henry F. du Pont, to design a landscape for the conifers in 1947. ''And she did a wonderful job, placing these unusual-looking trees among the rocks and native oaks,'' Mr. Forrest said.
 But the collection fell into neglect with the budget cuts of the 1970's, and it was not until 1999 that a garden board member, James Benenson Jr., and his wife, Sharen, helped underwrite a $5 million restoration and expansion, adding 200 new specimens well suited to the home garden.
 Patrick Chasse, a landscape designer specializing in historic restorations, worked with Shavaun Towers, a landscape architect, to rebuild the area, without destroying the grace of Coffin's original design. They added an irrigation system, widened the original path for the shuttle and added stone and cedar pavilions based on one that Coffin drew but that was not built. Then Mr. Forrest scoured nurseries from Oregon to Connecticut for new cultivars and selections.
 Most conifers, like pines, firs, cedars and spruces, are evergreen, and their dark green or blue needles form the perfect backdrop for other plants. A few, like the bald-cypress, larch and dawn redwood, turn gold, amber or orange before dropping their needles in the fall.
 Mr. Forrest stopped to admire a cluster of weeping giant sequoias, which hover like 12-foot Dr. Seuss characters at the entrance of the new garden. ''These weeping sequoias aren't considered hardy to our climate, but they've survived two hard winters,'' said Mr. Forrest, who likes to test the limits of hardiness zones.
 Descendants of a seedling of the giant sequoias native to California, these beanpoles will be lucky to reach 30 feet in this climate, and they get no wider than a few feet. They were leaning companionably close to a dozen old Sargent weeping hemlocks -- more Montgomery favorites -- some of which span 30 feet.
 ''Most people would be lucky to have one of these,'' Mr. Forrest said. ''We have a whole army of them.''
 Down the path he paid his respects to a 50-foot snake branch spruce, Picea abies Virgata, whose horizontal branches are hung with long pendulous branchlets looking like eight-foot snakes. It took 100 years for the spruce to look like this.
 ''You would never plant this tree if you saw it in a nursery, because the young ones look like broom handles,'' Mr. Forrest said. 
 But you might be inspired to plant a monkey puzzle tree, also called Chilean pine, Araucaria araucana, whose whorls of stiff triangular needles need protection from the sun and wind.
 ''It's marginally hardy here at best,'' Mr. Forrest said, gingerly stroking the sharp needles of the tree he planted on the south side of a rock outcropping. ''But it's protected here from the northeast winds, and it's shaded by the snake branch spruce.''
 Adventurous gardeners can take their cues from Mr. Forrest's experimental placement of new conifers (while listening to an audiotape on the collection's highlights) or pore over demonstration beds of dwarf varieties that thrive in sun or shade.
 Sea Urchin, a miniature white pine looking more like a sheep than a sea creature, snuggles against a boulder in a demonstration bed among other sun-loving dwarf pines, spruces, firs and Japanese umbrella pines. 
 In a bed for shade-tolerant conifers an unusual silver fir, Abies alba Green Spiral, angles up out of the middle like a corkscrew with cascading branches.
 And then, just for a little sense of history, visitors might wander over to the LuEsther T. Mertz Library, to browse through ''Cultured Conifers,'' an exhibition of rare 18th-century books, copper etchings and lithographs that trace the economic uses of these ancient trees, from making charcoal and gin to curing cancer.
 The Benenson Ornamental Conifers are the cultivated side of this world of ancient cone-bearers. A look at the wild side may be had by simply walking through the older collection around the garden's conservancy. Its pines, spruces and firs were planted more than 100 years ago, and some have vanished in their native habitat.

Miniature Forests
 GARDENS too small for a 30-foot weeping giant sequoia may be just right for a white pine called Pinus strobus Sea Urchin, a blue-green mound that grows about 18 inches tall and 2.5 feet wide in 20 years. It was cultivated by Dr. Sidney Waxman, who will explain some of his techniques at the Botanical Garden on Saturday. (Information on this and other events is at www.nybg.org.) The urchin needs full sun, and so do other dwarf pines, spruces, firs and Japanese umbrella pines. Dwarf yews, plum-yews and hemlocks flourish in full shade, and Hinoki cypresses are good candidates for partial shade. The garden's shop offers more than two dozen stars of its new conifers collection, from $30 to $300, and many are sold by nurseries.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SPRUCED UP -- The new Beneson Ornamental Conifers collection makes its debut at the New York Botanical Garden on Saturday. The curator, Todd Forrest, stands in front of a blue China fir and a new pavilion, with Sawara cypresses in the foreground
top right, dawn redwoods
center, a miniature white pine called Sea Urchin and a monkey puzzle tree (on right)
 above, weeping giant sequoias. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); GARDENING (89%); HORTICULTURE (78%) Trees and Shrubs; Conifers; Redwood Trees

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (93%) New York Botanical Garden

PERSON: Anne Raver

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (67%); DELAWARE, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



640 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Again, There's No Joy in the Smaller Markets

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Hi-Tops, a sports bar across from PNC Park, the handsome new stadium where the Pittsburgh Pirates play, is a regular hangout for baseball fans. But as the World Series got under way this weekend, and the Boston Red Sox and the St. Louis Cardinals appeared, almost larger than life, on a number of oversize screens, a full complement of waiters and bartenders presided over an almost empty barroom.
 ''We've totally lost baseball,'' said one Pirate fan, Rob Greenleaf, 37. ''I mean, you could throw a baseball to PNC Park from here, and there's no one here for the World Series?'' 
 This is a difficult time of year in most baseball-loving American cities. But it feels especially gloomy in places like Kansas City, Milwaukee, Cincinnati and Pittsburgh, small-market cities with substantial baseball traditions but where the modern economics of sport mitigate against success. The Yankees' payroll is $183 million; they pay Derek Jeter and Mike Mussina alone more than the Pirates -- whose payroll is $32 million -- pay their entire roster. It is now possible to argue that some franchises, like the Pirates, have been consigned to perpetual mediocrity. 
 ''We love the Pirates, we're good fans, we're passionate,'' Greenleaf, a basketball coach at a local college, said. ''But there's nothing we can do.''
 How all this affects fans is curious and complicated. Pulled in contradictory directions by loyalty and resentment, by partisan passion and pure love of the game, they don't know whether to express anguish or pride, for example, that there are seven former Pirates currently playing in the World Series. They can't decide if the glass is half-full or half-empty. 
 ''I don't like the way the game is now; we might be able to compete once in a blue moon,'' said Dan Honan, 39, a police officer who goes to 25 games a year. ''But would you rather live in Columbus, where you get nothing?'' 
 Many are still passionate, but they are also chagrined at having, as one fan put it, to find ''other things of value'' besides winning. 
 It is, in any case, a breed of fan born out necessity, and one that may not have existed before now. ''The fact that we're not going to compete for the World Series doesn't mean you can't enjoy being a fan,'' said John McKibben, 39, a former automobile salesman who is now in the restaurant business and has been a Pirates season-ticket holder for three years. ''On an August night if they're 20 games out, I can still go out to see Oliver Perez every five nights.''
 Many fans mentioned their delight in Perez, a promising young pitcher; Jason Bay, a young outfielder who may be the National League's rookie of the year; and Jack Wilson, a shortstop who had 200 hits this year. But they also acknowledged that the satisfaction is incomplete.
 ''I hate it when they lose; it ticks me off,'' said Rich Vareha, 42, a manufacturing executive whose family has held season tickets to the Pirates since the 1930's, and who goes to 20 or 30 games a year. ''But I can't get upset about something that I already know is going to happen. I'll be honest. My favorite games are in April or May, because we're still in it.'' There is, acknowledged Dave Littlefield, the general manager of the Pirates, ''a lot of frustration.'' 
 The Pirates, who participated in the first World Series in 1903 (they lost), won three championships between 1960 and 1979, but they have not been in the postseason or even won more games than they lost since 1992.
 Littlefield, 44, arrived midway through 2001, the team's first season in PNC Park and has spent his tenure largely trying to dig the club out of the hole that had been created by the signing of ineffective players to long-term contracts. Even now, the club is saddled with paying catcher Jason Kendall $8.5 million, more than a quarter of its entire payroll, something Littlefield said ''is not a good formula.''
 What the Pirates had planned to do, Littlefield said, was use the formula established by the Cleveland Indians, who in the 1990's parlayed a new downtown ballpark into renewed excitement over the team. The difference, he said, is that when Jacobs Field opened in 1994, the Indians had a core of young players prepared to win, unlike the Pirates of 2001, who lost 100 games.
 That year, excitement over the new park brought in a franchise high attendance of 2.4 million, but by this year, when the team was 72-89, it had sunk to 1.6 million. Season ticket-holders have also dwindled, from a high of 17,000 in 2001 to under 10,000 today, according to the team. 
 Knowledgeable fans are entirely cued in to the economic realities of baseball; they approve, generally, of Littlefield's tenure, which they say is moving the team in a positive direction, along the model of smaller-market clubs in Minnesota, Florida and Oakland, which have achieved success by focusing on the development of young players and signing the occasional free-agent star to boost them when the time is right. They know, for example, that small-market teams do not have the revenue streams from local radio and television that big-market teams do. 
 They know that the so-called luxury tax, which teams are compelled to pay when their payrolls exceed a certain figure ($120.5 million in 2004), has done little to address the disparity. And they know that the players union, which has evolved since the 1970's into a powerful negotiating force, has made it possible for players to become free agents, able to sell their services to the highest bidder just a few years into their careers. It is now nearly impossible for less affluent teams to keep the stars they have or purchase ones they don't. Given these realities, being a small-market baseball fan these days also involves rooting for a team to stay in business. 
 ''I know why Kris Benson and Aramis Ramirez left,'' said Michelle Maloskey, 26, a statistical analyst who attends up to 60 games a year, referring to two promising players recently with the Pirates. ''I can forgive the management. We need revenue-sharing, or a whole lot of luck.''
 The good nature of these fans occasionally erupts into bitterness; ''It's your fault,'' a New Yorker, obviously a stand-in for Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, was told last weekend.
 ''If things don't happen in the next three or four years with the Pirates,'' Vareha said, ''I'll probably think we don't ever have a prayer.''
 For now, the prevailing attitude is philosophical resignation.
 ''I do have times every year where I throw up my hands and swear to become a Yankees fan,'' Maloskey said. But she acknowledged, as Woody Allen once said, ''the heart wants what it wants.''
 ''The Pirates could probably go 0-162, and I'd still be a fan,'' she said. ''Of course, we never think it's going to happen this year. We look down the road a few years and think it's going to happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jason Verikas, a Pittsburgh bartender, found little customer interest in the World Series. (Photo by Jeff Swenson for The New York Times)
 The Pirates' young pitcher Oliver Perez has become a favorite of the PNC Park fans. (Photo by Gene J. Puskar/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%) Baseball; World Series; Finances

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%) Boston Red Sox; St Louis Cardinals

PERSON: DEREK JETER (57%) Bruce (NY Times) Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (87%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pittsburgh (Pa); Cincinnati (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



641 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: With Election Waning, It's Film Business as Usual 

BYLINE: By NEAL KOCH

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
Politics, and political filmmaking, were the talk of Hollywood this summer, a buzz fueled by the bitterness of the presidential campaign and unexpected box-office success of ''Fahrenheit 9/11.'' But on the eve of the election -- and, more relevantly, as the holidays approach -- studio offerings are reverting to form.
 Universal Pictures' ''Ray,'' expected to appear in about 2,000 theaters, is a musical biography of Ray Charles constructed around dilemmas far more human than political, including his long struggle with drug addiction. ''Birth,'' from New Line Cinema's Fine Line art film unit, is a psychological thriller about a woman, played by Nicole Kidman, wrestling with the notion that a child is her dead husband reincarnate. 
 ''Saw,'' meanwhile, adds a dose of pre-Halloween horror from Lions Gate Entertainment, one of the companies that created a stir by releasing Michael Moore's anti-Bush polemic ''Fahrenheit 9/11.'' 
 ''Escapism is the No. 1 thing people are looking for,'' John Hegeman, Lions Gate's president of worldwide marketing, said in describing the current mood of the national audience. 
 Despite a boom in politically flavored documentaries this year, Mr. Hegeman said his company had none on its schedule for future release. The combined grosses of documentaries released in the first 10 months of 2004 accounted for nearly half the money taken in at the box office by documentaries since 1982, according to boxofficemojo.com. That's a seismic shift, even if the figures are adjusted for inflation. 
 ''You have two choices when there's fear and the unknown'' in society, Mr. Hegeman said. ''You can look to escape or you can look to gain knowledge.''
 Despite much hoopla and considerable media attention, politically oriented films like Paramount's ''Team America: World Police,'' which has taken in only about $23 million so far, and ''The Manchurian Candidate'' (also a Paramount release), with about $66 million in ticket sales, have been disappointments at the box office.
 By contrast, ''Fahrenheit,'' the year's highest-grossing political movie, rose to 12th place in the box-office rankings, setting a record for feature-length documentaries. Yet, the film's $119 million gross remains a small fraction of the dollars taken in by fantasies like DreamWorks' ''Shrek 2,'' which ranks No. 1 to date with $440 million in ticket sales in the United States, or Sony Pictures' ''Spider-Man 2,'' which has taken in $373 million.
 People go to the movies seeking ''mythic solace for reality,'' said Leo Braudy, a professor of American literature and cinema at the University of Southern California. They want, he said, diverting displacements for their anxieties, soothing allegories for their fears.
 Though fierce discussion swirled around issues in ''The Passion of the Christ,'' which so far ranks No. 3 for the year with $370 million in ticket sales, and ''The Day After Tomorrow,'' the global warming disaster movie, with $187 million, neither supports an argument that the public was hungry for political filmmaking.
 And the audience appetite for the year's many documentaries critiquing corporate behavior and the war in Iraq was minuscule, though larger than it has been in the past, pointing to a continuing preference for standard fare. After ''Fahrenheit,'' the next highest grossing documentary, in 106th place according to a boxofficemojo.com ranking, was ''Super Size Me,'' about the fast-food industry and its effects on Americans' health.
 ''Watching someone eat himself to death on hamburgers isn't the biggest audience draw,'' said Peter Biskind, the author of ''Down and Dirty Pictures: Miramax, Sundance and the Rise of Independent Film.''
 Other documentaries that attracted critical attention this year, like ''The Corporation'' and ''The Control Room,'' remained relatively marginal at the box office, as did the director John Sayles's politically driven though fictional ''Silver City,'' which took in only about $1 million in ticket sales. 
 Still, many mainstream Hollywood filmmakers see the latest wave of documentary movies as an encouraging development. 
 ''We may see a marketplace that exists beside narrative moviemaking,'' said Marc Shmuger, vice chairman of Universal Pictures. ''That would be a great thing. I take my kids. To have a generation that can grow up with documentaries as well as with popcorn movies is something that I look forward to.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Larenz Tate, left, and Jamie Foxx, center, in ''Ray,'' which opens on Friday. Based on the life of Ray Charles, the film is more personal than political. (Photo by Nicola Goode/Universal Studios)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); HALLOWEEN (77%); LITERATURE (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); RANKINGS (71%); THEATER (56%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (55%) Motion Pictures; Documentary Films and Programs

COMPANY: NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (57%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%); LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT CORP (56%)

TICKER: LGF (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (56%)

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (56%) Neal Koch

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



642 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Moving Ideas Off Campus

BYLINE: By SHIRA BOSS-BICAK

 BODY:
It was the University of Arizona business school's annual Fame or Flame day, and faculty members were rating business ideas pitched by students in an entrepreneurship program as either first rate or feeble.
 To the disappointment of Sara Conrad and Daniel Berger, who were both juniors in the McGuire Entrepreneurship Program three autumns ago, the rating on their idea to develop customer-service kiosks in retail stores was flame. The judges said the project was unfeasible because it would be too easy to copy and would have a low return on investment. ''We had to start all over again,'' Ms. Conrad said.
 To help them, a professor gave them a catalog compiled by the university's Office of Technology Transfer that described dozens of technologies developed in the university's physics, engineering and other scientific laboratories with the potential for being used commercially. 
 The invention that grabbed their interest involved two professors in the medical school who had designed a portable device able to peer into children's eyes and photograph the retinas to detect shaken-baby syndrome. The two students reached an agreement with the researchers to develop a business plan to sell the product. 
 The two students conducted focus groups, analyzed competing products, determined a target price and estimated the market size. The doctors had envisioned selling the device to ophthalmologists; the students added pediatricians, hospitals and emergency rooms as potential customers. 
 ''They had a device that was outstanding,'' Ms. Conrad said. ''Dan and I took what they had and built it a little more to take it to a market they hadn't thought of, and built a financial plan they hadn't thought of.''
 They proposed a price of $5,500, a third of what the least-expensive competing product was selling for. They incorporated the company as Optica Inc. and laid out an exit strategy with details of how the ownership would be divided among the founders if the company was acquired. 
 After Mr. Berger and Ms. Conrad graduated the following year, the doctors sold the prototype and business plan to a local business group in return for shares in the company for themselves as well as Mr. Berger and Ms. Conrad. The company, now called Optica Technologies Inc., expects to have the Prism1 retinal camera instrument on sale within six months.
 ''With the University of Arizona being such a center of research, there are all of these wonderful ideas there,'' Ms. Conrad said. ''We were able to celebrate what we were learning with a real, tangible device to work on. It was just waiting there.''
 Since Congress passed the Bayh-Dole technology-transfer law of 1980, universities have enjoyed the ownership of research breakthroughs that were developed on their campuses with the help of federal financing and have been scrambling to turn them into commercial ventures.
 This transfer of technology from the campus to the capitalist marketplace has been a financial windfall for many schools. The top earners in the 2002 fiscal year, the most recent with figures available from the Association of University Technology Managers in Northbrook, Ill., were Columbia University ($156 million), the University of California system ($82 million) and New York University ($63 million). For all universities, the revenue generated from their researchers' inventions has nearly doubled, to $1.3 billion in 2002 from $699 million five years earlier.
 With the number of patents issued to universities rising to more than 3,600 in 2002 from fewer than 250 before the Bayh-Dole law was passed, the offices of technology transfer at universities are becoming overwhelmed with discoveries to assess and market. And increasingly, they are turning to a previously underused resource to investigate their potential: students in the entrepreneurship departments of their business schools. 
 ''We all want to increase productivity,'' said Ken Smith, interim dean of the Eller College of Management at the University of Arizona. ''We do that by improving the relationship between the scientist and the business entrepreneur.''
 The idea of teaming up with university researchers caught on slowly at first at university entrepreneurial programs, where students were more inclined to pursue their own ideas for companies. But having witnessed young entrepreneurs take a quick route to business success in the Internet boom of the 1990's, some have come to believe that working with ready-made technology is the best way to emulate them in the post-dot-com era, according to Jon Soderstrom, vice president for public policy at the technology managers' group. At the University of Arizona, for example, 12 of the 20 teams currently in the McGuire program are now working on business plans based on technology transfer.
 Universities themselves have started taking equity positions in start-ups or joint ventures founded on university-developed research, instead of charging royalties or licensing fees that young companies often cannot afford. (The state Constitution prohibits the University of Arizona from taking such an ownership stake, but there is a proposal on the November ballot to end the ban.)
 It is not just the financial bonanza that motivates a university to promote its researchers' inventions. These universities are also under pressure to create businesses that generate jobs for the local economy, Mr. Soderstrom said. From 1980 to 2002, more than 4,300 companies were formed based on academic discoveries, according to his group, resulting in the creation of tens of thousands of jobs. Yale University, for example, has spun off 18 bioscience companies in Connecticut. The companies employ more than 880 people and have raised $1.1 billion in public and private financing in the last five years, according to Connecticut United for Research Excellence, a nonprofit organization that promotes the bioscience industry.
 ''This is being multiplied all over the country,'' Mr. Soderstrom said. ''It's not only the Stanfords and the M.I.T.'s anymore.''
 The McGuire program is increasingly working with the university's technology-transfer office to link inventors with students who will develop business plans. Scientists welcome the collaboration, says Jim Jindrick, an entrepreneurship professor at the University of Arizona, because they recognize they lack business and marketing expertise. 
 The university formally recognizes a business plan as proprietary intellectual property, and student teams working with researchers are required to draw up a ''memo of understanding,'' which recognizes each party's stake in the project.
 Cooperation between students and researchers on commercial products is extending beyond the university. This summer, the University of Arizona sent several entrepreneurship students to work at research institutes in Mexico to evaluate technologies developed there. One team of six students ended up scrapping the two business ideas they had come up with and adopting a new technology for detecting oil leaks that was developed at an institute in Ensenada.
 ''We said, 'Hey, why don't we try this idea?''' said Sandy Chen, an M.B.A. student on the team, who is now writing a business plan for a company called Leak Hound that will develop leak-detection equipment. The students are spending the next several months exploring additional applications of the technology, identifying possible markets, and building financial models. 
 It is not just research institutions that are benefiting from working with business schools. Companies, which have long sponsored research by faculty members, are tapping into the brains of business students by sponsoring business-plan competitions. Honeywell started such a competition last year, with an award of $150,000 to the winning team and its school. It gives student teams technologies that are being used in the company's aerospace division and asks them to come up with other possible applications.
 ''We were looking at how we can increase the number of business plans we have to look at,'' said Wayland Adams, a product line manager and chairman of the committee that runs the Honeywell Growth Challenge. Last year's competition generated 14 business plans, each of them being evaluated by Honeywell. ''We might miss things that the students might see,'' Mr. Adams said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: As a student at the University of Arizona, Sara Conrad helped develop a business plan for a medical device invented by researchers. (Photo by David Kadlubowski/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (76%); FOCUS GROUPS (76%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (75%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (74%); HOSPITALS (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); PEDIATRICS (72%); EYE TESTING (72%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (72%); RETAILERS (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); LEGISLATION (61%); MARKET SIZE (51%) Colleges and Universities; Inventions and Patents; Research; Law and Legislation; Science and Technology; Research; Shaken Baby Syndrome; Finances; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (93%) University of Arizona

PERSON: Shira Boss-Bicak; Sara Conrad; Daniel Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



643 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally a Second Day, Pushing Dow Past 10,000

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose sharply yesterday, extending their rally for a second session as investors expressed relief over plummeting oil prices after a government report showed higher inventories of crude oil.
 The Dow Jones industrial average had its second consecutive triple-digit gain, pushing back above the 10,000 level.
 Investors welcomed the government's weekly supply report, although it showed a slide in distillate products. The resulting plunge in crude futures helped equities bounce back from a lackluster open. The question for stock investors, however, is whether oil prices will continue to fall. 
 ''The move in crude doesn't seem to be much on the surface other than pulling back to the lower end of a range on the way up,'' said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities. ''If it were to prove to be a true break, then certainly it's a much better backdrop for equities. I don't know if that's the case, but two strong back-to-back days on the market suggest two things: One, people are underinvested in equities, and two, a lot of people are short the market.''
 Wall Street has grown increasingly anxious about how soaring energy costs might dent consumer spending ahead of what is expected to be a winter that is chillier than normal. 
 With oil prices hovering around $52 a barrel, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries urged the Bush administration to release more oil from the nation's strategic reserve to calm the market. But after the release of the inventory data, light crude for December delivery fell $2.71, to $52.46, in New York.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 113.55 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,002.03, after a 138-point rise Tuesday. It was the first time since May 9 and May 12, 2003, that the blue chips have gained more than 100 points in two consecutive sessions. The rise put the index above 10,000 for the first time in two weeks.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 14.31 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,125.40. The Nasdaq composite index surged 41.20 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,969.99.
 Analysts welcomed the two-day pop in share prices, saying it was partly the product of oversold conditions. Anxiety over lofty oil prices, rising interest rates, decelerating corporate earnings and the presidential election have weighed heavily on the markets in recent weeks.
 Among Dow components reporting results, Boeing was up 12 cents, to $50.10, after the company beat Wall Street expectations with a 78 percent increase in third-quarter earnings. Boeing, the aerospace giant, was lifted by a strong military business. It also raised its estimate for full-year profits, citing lower-than-anticipated tax expenses.
 Procter & Gamble lost $1.43, or 2.7 percent, to $51.78, despite reporting a 14 percent rise in profits led by growth in developing markets and improved sales in its beauty care and fabric and home care divisions. The company, which makes Tide detergent and Pampers diapers, beat per-share earnings estimates by a penny.
 ATA Holdings, the parent company of the nation's 10th-largest air carrier, was up 27 cents, or 29 percent, to $1.20, after filing for bankruptcy protection and selling off airport slots and other assets to AirTran Airways for $87.6 million. AirTran was up $1.39, or 13.6 percent, at $11.64.
 Treasury prices fell with the 10-year Treasury note down 23/32, to a price of 101 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, jumped to 4.09 percent from 4 percent on Tuesday.
 Following are the results of the auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.826
High Yield: 2.590
Low Yield: 2.450
Median Yield: 2.560
Accepted at low price: 37%
Total applied for: 51,949,970
Accepted: 29,559,732
Noncompetitive: 742,337
Interest set at: 2 1/2

The two-year notes mature Oct. 31, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: BOEING CO (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



644 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Trade With Democracies

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Nourishing the Muslim World'' (editorial, Oct. 25):
 You're right that the Bush administration's Middle East policy lacks even the smallest carrot to go with its big stick. But economic cooperation with Pakistan is no place to begin.
 ''The more dependent Pakistanis become on American companies for their livelihood, the less likely they are to join anti-American insurgencies,'' you say. ''Washington can help by encouraging American companies, through import duty relief, to remain in Pakistan.'' 
 Far smarter and more humane than helping another Pakistani autocrat would be a uniform policy of favorable rules for trade with democracies.
 Your argument that trade begets peace is at best a shaky proposition. From Saudi Arabia to Uzbekistan, trade is doing precious little to ameliorate anti-American public opinion.
 Democracy and free expression, on the other hand, are sure-fire harbingers of peaceful coexistence. If all countries knew that trade with the United States were contingent on functioning democracies at home, they would have a political and economic incentive to hold elections. And we would truly be a force for freedom.

James K. Lowden
New York, Oct. 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%) United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: James K Lowden

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



645 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ROSEN, LINCOLN

 BODY:
 ROSEN--Lincoln, 89, died October 20, in Maplewood, NJ. Married for 61 years to his late beloved wife Dorothy, he leaves his children, Bob, Nan and Edward, his grandchildren Jonathan, Melissa, Claire, Lillie, Charlotte and Camille, and his great-grandchildren, Cameron and Spencer. 
He was graduated from Harvard College Class of '35 with high honors and served overseas during W.W. II as a Captain in the U.S. Army, Office of the Adjutant General. A man of high ethical standards and a keen interest in history, economics and international relations, he pursued successful careers in both law and business. A memorial service in celebration of his life will be held in December. Contributions in his memory may be made to the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64 St., New York, NY 10023. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); WORLD WAR II (69%); ARMIES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



646 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Boeing and Northrop Say Profits Jumped in Quarter

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Robust demand for military equipment and technology led two arms makers to post higher quarterly profit yesterday, with Boeing reporting a 78 percent jump in earnings despite a decline in commercial airplane revenue. Northrop Grumman also posted higher profit for the third quarter. The companies benefited from increased government military spending on national priorities like homeland security and the war in Iraq. 
 ''It's consistent with the overall outlook in the industry -- strong defense spending,'' said Craig Fraser, an analyst with the debt ratings service Fitch Ratings. 
 ''Appropriations have been passed by Congress, and it's blowing into the actual outlays,'' he said. 
 Mr. Fraser added, however, that strong growth in revenue witnessed in the last few years will probably start to taper off in the next 18 to 24 months. 
 Earnings for Boeing, which makes both commercial and military jets, rose to $456 million, or 56 cents a share, from $256 million, or 32 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Revenue rose 8 percent, to $13.15 billion.
 The company, which is based in Chicago, raised its commercial plane delivery forecast for 2005 and said it still expected 200 firm orders for its newest jetliner, the 7E7, despite higher oil prices that have reduced airline profit globally. 
 ''Boeing's quarter was solid over all, with the excellent performance in defense and a strong number,'' said a Banc of America Securities analyst, Nick Fothergill. Still, he noted, the company did not raise its 2005 profit forecasts, which could ''hint at headwinds'' including pension expenses or possible commercial aircraft deferrals. 
 Boeing's commercial airplanes unit revenue fell 8 percent, to $4.6 billion, as deliveries rose but included more smaller planes. 
 Shares of Boeing gained 12 cents, to $50.10.
 Northrop Grumman, the maker of warships and the Global Hawk spy plane, reported a net profit of $278 million, or 76 cents a share, compared with $184 million, or 50 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. The company, which is based in Los Angeles, noted an 11 percent increase in sales, to $7.41 billion, on strength in its mission systems, integrated systems, ships and space-technology businesses. 
 Shares of Northrop Grumman rose $1.04, or 2.1 percent, to $51.75.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A destroyer under construction at a Northrop yard in Mississippi. (Photo by William Colgin/Mississippi Press -- Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); AIRLINES (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%) Airlines and Airplanes; Company Reports

COMPANY: BOEING CO (94%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (84%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); NOC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



647 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: A List of Topics Aimed Squarely at the Middle Class

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:

Senator John Kerry began running this spot in roughly 12 swing states this week. It is to run until Tuesday.

PRODUCER -- Shrum, Devine & Donilon.

THE SCRIPT -- Mr. Kerry says: ''Here's what I've heard from families all across America: You need someone to fight for you. I believe it's the middle class that needs a tax cut. I believe in creating opportunity, so I'll end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. I'll lower the cost of prescription drugs. And with a strong military and strong alliances, we will defeat terror. I believe our future belongs to freedom, not to fear. I'm John Kerry and I approve this message.''

ON THE SCREEN -- The spot switches between Mr. Kerry's speaking into the camera in front of a flag and an array of images -- a couple holding their baby outdoors, a man raising a flag, a mother pushing her son on a bicycle, a couple helping their toddler read on the living-room couch, hard hats leaving work, a pilot taking off in a fighter jet, a little girl on a swing and, finally, Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, clasping hands and holding them up.

ACCURACY -- Mr. Kerry has pledged to lower taxes for the middle class, primarily through tax credits for health care and college tuition, while eliminating President Bush's cuts for the very wealthy. Mr. Bush's campaign has said there is no way that Mr. Kerry can offer middle-class tax relief while staying true to his promise of cutting the deficit in half and offering his ambitious health care plan. Mr. Kerry has proposed closing a loophole that allows companies to defer paying taxes on profits earned overseas, although economists give mixed assessments of how much that would reducing the flow of work to other countries. He has proposed lowering prescription drug costs, in part, by lifting restrictions on imports from Canada and by encouraging more competition from manufacturers of generic drugs.

SCORECARD -- This advertisement represents Mr. Kerry's closing argument to voters. It reprises the themes he has hit all year since the primaries. Voters have heard this appeal, a lot. It makes so many points it could be Exhibit A for critics who say Mr. Kerry's campaign has failed to find one consistent overarching theme. Mr. Kerry is decidedly presidential as he speaks into the camera. And this spot may stand out for its sharp production values and positive theme, rare indeed on television in swing states. Then again, its tone may be negated by Mr. Kerry's other spots -- which are not so positive -- not to mention the wolf pack prowling the airwaves on behalf of Mr. Bush. JIM RUTENBERG


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); SPOT MARKET (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); GENERIC DRUGS (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); MAMMALS (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CLOSINGS (62%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Political Advertising

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) John (Sen) Kerry; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



648 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ISSUES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: BUSH HITS BACK AT KERRY CHARGE OVER EXPLOSIVES

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JODI WILGOREN; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Michigan for this article and Jodi Wilgoren from Cedar Rapids, Iowa. David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: PONTIAC, Mich., Oct. 27 

 BODY:
President Bush broke his silence on Wednesday on the disappearance of 380 tons of explosives in Iraq, accusing Senator John Kerry of making ''wild charges'' about the missing explosives and of ''denigrating the actions'' of troops in the field. 
 Mr. Kerry quickly responded that while ''our troops are doing a heroic job, the president, the commander in chief, is not doing his job.''
 The president's comments, his first on the missing explosives since Mr. Kerry began accusing him on Monday of incompetence in failing to secure Iraq after the American-led invasion, reflected concern in the Bush campaign that the issue could be hurting the president only six days before what is expected to be an extraordinarily close election. 
 The missing explosives were first reported Monday by The New York Times and CBS News, and since then the issue and the possibility that American troops in Iraq let the explosives slip into terrorist hands have dominated the presidential campaign.
 ''Our military is now investigating a number of possible scenarios, including that the explosives may have been moved before our troops even arrived at the site,'' Mr. Bush told thousands of Republicans at an airport rally in Lancaster County, Pa., his first stop of a day that took him through three states. 
 ''This investigation is important and it's ongoing,'' he said, ''and a political candidate who jumps to conclusions without knowing the facts is not a person you want as your commander in chief.''
 The exact timing of the disappearance of the explosives is critical to the political arguments of each campaign. Mr. Kerry's contention that the administration did not adequately secure the country and was unprepared for the war's aftermath presumes that the explosives disappeared after the fall of Saddam Hussein on April 9, 2003, as officials of the interim Iraqi government say.
 If the explosives disappeared before Mr. Hussein fell, as Mr. Bush now says is possible, that would undercut Mr. Kerry's argument and bolster Mr. Bush's contention that his opponent is making charges without all the facts.
 White House officials say Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, was told around Oct. 15 that the explosives had vanished. White House officials say she also informed the president.
 Mr. Kerry, who has accused Mr. Bush of keeping Americans in the dark about the realities of Iraq, spent his day asserting that Mr. Bush had put American troops at enormous risk.
 ''Mr. President, you don't honor our troops or protect them better by putting them in greater danger than they ought to be,'' Mr. Kerry declared to 7,500 people packed in a basketball arena in Rochester, Minn. ''The bottom line is your administration was warned, you were put on notice, but you didn't put these explosives on a priority list.''
 He added: ''Mr. President, for the sake of our brave men and women in uniform, for the sake of those troops that are in danger because of your wrong decisions, you owe America real answers about what happened, not just political attacks.''
 But Mr. Bush, who had let his vice president and aides speak for him on the issue for two days, sharply criticized Mr. Kerry and did not let up at a single campaign stop. The president repeatedly said the senator would say ''almost anything to get elected.'' 
 ''Now, the senator is making wild charges about missing explosives,'' Mr. Bush said time and again in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan.
 He then seized on a remark by Richard C. Holbrooke, a Kerry adviser, who said in an appearance on Fox News on Tuesday that all of the facts about the explosives were not known. 
 ''One of his top foreign policy advisors admits he doesn't know the facts,'' Mr. Bush said. ''He said, 'I don't know the truth.' End quote. Well, think about that. The senator is denigrating the actions of our troops and commanders in the field without knowing the facts.''
 Mr. Bush also criticized Mr. Kerry as ''throwing out the wild claim'' that the American military passed up the chance to capture Osama bin Laden in the caves of Tora Bora, Afghanistan, in fall 2001. 
 ''You might remember that -- he kept repeating that in the debates,'' Mr. Bush said at the Hancock County Fairgrounds in Findlay, Ohio. ''Well, this is unjustified criticism of our military commanders in the field. This is the kind of, worst kind of Monday-morning quarterbacking.'' 
 Mr. bin Laden dropped out of sight in December 2001 during the American-led assault on the Tora Bora region and is still believed to be somewhere along the Pakistani-Afghan border. 
 Mr. Bush asserted that Mr. Kerry had changed his views on Tora Bora with the political winds, and said that in the fall of 2001 the senator said that ''I think we've been doing this pretty effectively, and we should continue to do it that way.''
 Mr. Kerry made the missing explosives his dominant message for the third day running, filling the first half of a 40-minute speech nominally about the economy with an expanding discourse on Iraq. He called the story ''a growing scandal'' and said the public deserved ''a full and honest explanation of how it happened and what the president is going to do about it.'' 
 ''What we're seeing is a White House that is dodging and bobbing and weaving in their usual efforts to avoid responsibility -- just as they've done every step of the way in our involvement in Iraq,'' he said.
 Mr. Kerry and his aides are seeking to use the missing explosives as Exhibit A for their argument that Mr. Bush has shown ''incompetence'' as commander in chief and been unwilling to change course.
 ''Three hundred and eighty tons of explosives that could be in the hands of terrorists and he'd do everything exactly the same way?'' he asked in a high school gym packed with perhaps 2,000 enthusiastic supporters in Sioux City. 
 ''On Iraq, the president doesn't see it, he doesn't see it, so he can't fix it,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''I do see it, and I will fix it.''
 But he softened the assertion he made the day before that the explosives had already been used in attacks against American troops, saying instead that they ''could very likely be in the hands of terrorists and insurgents, who are actually attacking our forces now 80 times a day on average.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign also released a new advertisement, which aides said would begin running Thursday on national cable stations. It shows images of American flags waving as a narrator intones: ''As we see the deepening crisis and chaos in Iraq, as we choose a new commander in chief and a fresh start, we will always support and honor those who serve.''
 The last time that international inspectors saw the explosives was in early March 2003, days before the American-led invasion. It is possible, inspectors with the International Atomic Energy Agency say, that Saddam Hussein's forces may have tried to move the material out of the 10 huge bunkers at the Al Qaqaa facility where it was stored to save it if the facility was bombed. 
 If so, that would partly support Mr. Bush's contention that the Iraqis could have moved 380 tons of material very far without being detected.
 But Mr. Bush on Thursday did not address a critical issue raised by the discovery of the missed explosives: why American forces were not alerted to the existence of a huge cache of explosives, even though the atomic energy agency and American officials had publicly discussed the threat it posed, and knew its exact location. 
 The commander of the troops that went into the Al Qaqaa facility on the way to Baghdad in early April, Col. Joseph Anderson, of the Second Brigade of the Army's 101st Airborne Division, has said he was never told the site was considered sensitive, or that international inspectors had visited it before the war began.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush addressing supporters yesterday at a rally in an airport hangar in Vienna, Ohio. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TERRORISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); BASKETBALL (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Lancaster County (Pa); Pennsylvania; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



649 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: MICHIGAN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: A Clouding of the Crystal Ball Draws the Candidates Back

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat, told a visitor that ''unless something big happens,'' she did not expect John Kerry to return to Michigan before Election Day.
 On Monday night, she stood beside Mr. Kerry in Warren, north of Detroit, in the heartland of the Reagan Democrats two decades ago. At his first event in Michigan since Sept. 15, Mr. Kerry told about 10,000 enthusiastic people who filled the Sports and Expo Center of Macomb County Community College that ''George Bush has failed in the essential task of commander in chief.'' 
 Mr. Kerry is scheduled to appear in Detroit on Saturday. 
 President Bush, who had not been courting Michigan very assiduously either, visited the state on Oct. 6. He was in Pontiac, also near Detroit, on Wednesday and is scheduled to visit Saginaw on Thursday. Very late in the game, Michigan finds itself back in play.
 So what happened? Bill Ballenger, who edits Inside Michigan Politics, a popular newsletter, traces the change to a tracking poll by Steve Mitchell of East Lansing for The Detroit News, which showed Mr. Bush ahead by five percentage points as of last weekend, when other polls showed Mr. Kerry holding a solid lead.
 ''I think Mitchell changed their minds,'' Mr. Ballenger said. ''He worried the Kerry people and he encouraged the Bush people. If Steve hadn't come out with those numbers, the candidates wouldn't have invested any more time in Michigan.''
 Governor Granholm offered a different interpretation. She conceded that she, too, had been surprised, but she said the president was ''hoping to do something here that would make up for his difficulties in other states and to divert Kerry from other states where he needs to campaign.'' 
 It would not work, the governor insisted. Mr. Kerry will win Michigan comfortably, she said, though ''it's no time to take it for granted.''
 Republicans dispute that, contending that Mr. Kerry is hostile to the interests of the auto industry and thus to the state's working men and women. They look for a tight finish, although some concede that in a state where the Democrats have prevailed in the last three presidential elections (Al Gore won by more than five percentage points), Mr. Kerry is probably the favorite.
 ''It's amazing to us that the Kerry campaign has finally discovered Michigan,'' said John Truscott, the chief spokesman for the Bush campaign in the state.
 Without question, most of the news developments in recent days would seem to favor Mr. Kerry, including the loss of 15,000 payroll jobs here in September alone, while some states were picking up jobs. Between January 2001, when Mr. Bush took office, and June 2004, Michigan's unemployment rate rose 2.4 percentage points, more than in any other swing state.
 On Sunday, in an editorial under the headline ''For President: None of the Above,'' the powerful Detroit News, a self-described voice of conservatism that has never backed a Democrat for president, withheld its endorsement from Mr. Bush, a near-seismic event in terms of Michigan politics.
 One positive sign for Mr. Bush has been the recent finding in national polls that as many as 18 percent of black voters might back him, compared with 9 percent four years ago. Blacks are a crucial part of the Democratic coalition in Detroit and other major Michigan cities. But the president appears to have lost ground significantly among Michigan Muslims, concentrated in Detroit and Dearborn, many of whom say their civil liberties have been eroded in the war on terror. 
 David Rohde, a professor of political science at Michigan State University, said he had ''seen nothing and heard nothing'' to explain why Michigan should suddenly ''lurch.'' But the candidates' own internal polls, he added, ''must show the race tightening in the last days, or they wouldn't be coming here.''
 What Professor Rohde called ''the growing problems with sampling that we are experiencing nationwide'' might well have skewed Mr. Mitchell's results, he suggested.
 But Mr. Mitchell, who has a strong track record in Michigan, said, ''I don't have any particular explanation for why our results differ.'' He alone among local pollsters forecast Mr. Gore's victory here almost exactly, and he projected Ms. Granholm as the victor in 2002 when several others did not.
 In polling completed on Oct 21, Epic-MRA, Mr. Mitchell's main rival among Michigan pollsters, showed Mr. Kerry ahead by six percentage points, 49 to 43. In polling completed two days later, a Republican pollster, Scott Rasmussen, gave Mr. Kerry a lead of five points, 51 to 46. And in polling through Tuesday, still another pollster, John Zogby, made the Kerry lead five percentage points, 49 to 44.
 Ed Sarpolus, one of the principals in Epic-MRA, said he had seen ''no sign at all of a Bush lead in any of the Congressional district polls he had access to, although he, too, described the race as ''tightening, in the usual pattern.'' He said he had been disturbed by ''the fact that Steve's younger voters were overwhelmingly pro-Bush,'' while most samplings, here and elsewhere, have found them strongly pro-Kerry.
 The first report on Mr. Mitchell's survey, published in The News last Tuesday, reflected interviews with 400 likely voters and gave Mr. Bush the lead, 46.9 percent to 42.7 percent -- a lead of 4.2 percentage points, well within the margin of sampling error. Mr. Mitchell himself told the paper he was surprised by the result, because it differed so sharply from other polls' findings. Still, by Sunday, The News was reporting a Bush lead of five points, with 200 more voters in the sample.
 In its editions on Wednesday, The News reported a lead of 45 percent to 44 percent for Mr. Kerry, not Mr. Bush, based on a rolling sample of 600 voters interviewed on Wednesday, Thursday and Monday nights: a statistical dead heat.
 Why the turnaround? As is usual with tracking polls, the oldest data, from Monday, Oct. 18, which was a high-scoring night for Mr. Bush, were discarded, and new results, from last Monday, when Mr. Kerry had ''an unusually strong night'' following his widely publicized rally in Warren, were added, Mr. Mitchell explained.
 If, in fact, the campaigns based strategic decisions on the initial Detroit News numbers, this may prove a seminal case of the perils of relying on polls, especially the earliest results of tracking polls.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At Wayne State University in Detroit, potential voters awaited performers on Tuesday. (Photo by Rebecca Cook/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Endorsements

ORGANIZATION: Detroit News

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (90%); AL GORE (58%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Steve (Pollster) Mitchell; Jennifer M (Gov) Granholm; R W Jr Apple

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



650 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Where economists stand, or don't stand, on the issue of corporate scandals.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick. 
Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and he teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His most recent book is ''Why Economies Grow'' (Basic Books/Century Foundation). E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
WHEN you think about the economic issues facing the next president, you have to wonder why either candidate wants the job. There are the outsize budget deficits, high levels of private debt, a soaring trade deficit, growing numbers of Americans without health insurance, a possible bust in the housing bubble and an expansion that is not creating enough jobs and is probably already tapering to a crawl.
 But at least these issues have come up in the campaign. One issue that has not is the corporate scandals that rocked the nation two years ago. Now Eliot Spitzer, New York's attorney general, has uncovered another dark hole of apparent corporate wrongdoing among the nation's largest, most respected insurance companies. 
 It is fair to ask where the federal government has been. But it is also fair to ask where the economists are. 
 ''The economists are leaving this mostly to the law schools,'' said the Yale economist Robert J. Shiller, author of ''Irrational Exuberance,'' the best seller about the overvalued stock market. ''They are not comfortable with issues concerning human behavior.''
 To be a little more precise, there is a lot of economic research in the field, but it often reduces behavior to a set of predictable possibilities. ''They see the organization as merely a nexus of individual contracts,'' complains Rakesh Khurana, an assistant professor of organizational behavior at the Harvard Business School and author of ''Searching for a Corporate Savior'' (Princeton University Press, 2002). ''This is a highly unrealistic description and has no support in any social science other than economics.'' 
 Of course, knowing economists, that might make them proud. But the result is that many economists lean against financial regulation in general and have been in favor of only modest reforms in the wake of the scandals. 
 The general argument they make is that free markets check corrupt behavior more than is realized, the courts can handle other disputes, and government regulations often serve business interests anyway.
 To David A. Skeel, a University of Pennsylvania law professor, however, reforms are badly needed to correct conflicts of interest and abuses in executive compensation. And the opportunity to adopt them does not come around often.
 Interest in any serious reform almost fizzled, in fact, after the Enron scandal in late 2001, and was revived only with revelations that WorldCom misstated profits by roughly $11 billion. 
 ''After WorldCom, President Bush made a speech saying it was just a few bad apples,'' Mr. Skeel says. ''But that didn't go over well in the financial community any longer. They wanted firmer action. Finally, he supported the Sarbanes-Oxley bill.'' 
 Mr. Skeel and others say Sarbanes-Oxley, the principal reform measure to come out of the scandals, is inadequate. It largely calls for new disclosure requirements and more independent auditors. In a new book, ''Icarus in the Boardroom'' (Oxford University Press), Mr. Skeel proposes a number of new reforms, including more stringent demands for independent auditing. He would require auditors to be assigned by the stock exchanges themselves. 
 The true measure of the lame regulatory environment, however, has been the lack of action, either by the accounting standards organization or the government, to restrain the stock options so generously given to top executives. 
 Academic research strongly supported aligning executives' incentives with rising stock prices. But when options gave them the right to buy shares in the future at a given price, executive income soared. 
 In 1991, the average chief executive of a large company earned 140 times the pay of an average worker. By 2003, it was 500 times. 
 Lucian A. Bebchuk, professor of law, economics and finance at Harvard Law School, and Yaniv Grinstein of Cornell Business School find that a proper calculation of the total compensation of the top five executives of all companies, including salaries, stock options and pensions, came to a stunning $260 billion over the last 10 years. 
 This might be justifiable if there were ample evidence it was based on market performance or corporate earnings. But Mr. Bebchuk and Mr. Grinstein find that since the early 1990's pay has risen about twice as fast as the market value of stocks and much faster than corporate income. Total compensation was 5.7 percent of total corporate income in the early 1990's; it is now under 10 percent. 
 Mr. Bebchuk concludes that, contrary to arguments made by many economists, compensation agreements between boards and high-level executives are not done at arm's length; managers have a great deal of influence over what they get paid. Moreover, the options so widely advocated by these economists can often induce misbehavior as executives misstate earnings and liabilities, and take on dubious projects, to pump up stock prices in the short run. 
 In a new book, ''Pay Without Performance'' (Harvard University Press), Mr. Bebchuk, along with another law professor, Jesse M. Fried of the University of California, Berkeley, propose reforms to link compensation and performance more closely. Like many other observers, they want options listed on financial statements to make compensation transparent. 
 But they also say directors' compensation should be tied to stock prices. Most important, they argue, making directors more independent, as the New York Stock Exchange now requires, is not enough. They want shareholders to have far more power to vote for new directors, and thereby make directors more accountable. Now, access to the corporate ballot is limited. 
 In the meantime, it is Mr. Spitzer, not Washington, who keeps up the most pressure on corporations. Mr. Spitzer got investment banks to agree to separate stock analysis from corporate underwriting. Analysts were producing misleading research to win investment banking business for their firms. And while the Securities and Exchange Commission is issuing some new requirements, Frank Partnoy, a law professor at the University of San Diego, says corporate whistle-blowers now tend to go to New York, not Washington. 
 The next president may be able to generate the enthusiasm needed for serious reform. But given the near silence during the campaign, only another major round of scandals may accomplish that. 
 At least there are cracks in the economists' armor. Some, usually at the law and business schools, are making economically sound cases for new rules and regulations. Whoever is president in the next four years can use some fresh advice.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eliot Spitzer, New York's attorney general, is now looking into insurance. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)Chart: ''Plusher Pay''TOTAL FOR FOUR YEARS ENDEDGraph tracks compensation of top five executives of all public companies as a share of company income from 1997 to 2002.(Source by Lucian Bebchuk, Harvard University, and Yaniv Grinstein, Cornell University) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INSURANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); WRITERS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



651 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: In Syracuse, 2 'Reformers' for a Senate Seat

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

DATELINE: SYRACUSE, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
When she was first elected to the State Senate two decades ago, Nancy Larraine Hoffmann was something of a maverick among her colleagues: she spoke out openly against the way things got done in Albany, deriding the ''closed-door'' deals that decide the fate of legislation in the Capitol.
 But six years ago, she switched parties to become a Republican, and she has been part of the G.O.P. majority that controls the Senate ever since. And now she finds herself a target of the statewide movement to reform Albany by voting out incumbents.
 Democrats, sensing her vulnerability, feel they have a good shot at unseating Ms. Hoffmann. And if they are successful, her seat would further strengthen their long-term strategy to gain control of the State Senate. 
 Their candidate is David Valesky, 38, the host of a local program at the public television station where he is also vice president. (He took a leave of absence this summer to campaign.) In his campaign, Mr. Valesky's central topic has been the need to change the way the State Legislature operates.
 Specifically, he said that Ms. Hoffmann's switch to become a Republican has made her tone deaf to the cry to change Albany, saying that her decision to sit with the Republican majority has led her to turn her back on her reformist roots from her earlier years in the Senate.
 ''There is no question that she was an early voice for reform,'' he said. ''But she became a Republican, and when it came time for the Senate to vote for new rules, she voted with Joe Bruno and the majority to make an undemocratic Senate even more undemocratic.''
 A result of the lack of reform in Albany, he said, is that little is accomplished, whether in reconfiguring education spending formulas, curbing the burden of Medicaid costs or expanding economic development programs in central New York.
 ''My whole campaign is based on reform, and there is no way to put that aside,'' he said. ''In my opinion, all other issues stem from the need for reform.''
 The Democrats hope to gain two seats this year in their quest to win the seven they need to win eventual control of the State Senate, and they see capturing Ms. Hoffmann's seat as central to that strategy.
 While Democrats here acknowledge the difficulty in toppling a longtime incumbent, party leaders have stepped forward to assist Mr. Valesky, including the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi.
 United States Senator Charles E. Schumer is scheduled to campaign with Mr. Valesky this week, and United States Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has donated money and will be featured in a new campaign mailing.
 What's more, Mr. Velesky has received about $50,000 from the political committee founded by the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, to push for state government overhaul. And that is on top of the nearly $80,000 he has received from the Senate Democratic Campaign Committee.
 But that is dwarfed by the more than $300,000 Senator Hoffmann has received from the Senate Republican Campaign Committee. In addition, Ms. Hoffmann has a long history of relationships with civic and community organizations thorough the 49th State Senate District. The district, which includes half of Syracuse as well as suburban areas and farmland in central New York, takes in all of Madison County and parts of Cayuga, Onondaga and Oneida Counties.
 In September, Ms. Hoffmann withstood a strong challenge in the Republican primary from Thomas V. Dadey Jr., a former LaFayette town councilman and board of education president. Mr. Dadey was endorsed by the chairmen of the Republican Party organizations of all four counties in the district.
 His candidacy was also championed by Mike Long, the chairman of the state's Conservative Party. (Mr. Dadey remains on the Conservative line in next week's election but appears not to be campaigning.)
 In this campaign, Ms. Hoffmann, who is 57, has taken great pains to establish her bona fides as a crusader for change in Albany. At a Lions Club dinner Monday night in Canastota, she stood at the lectern with a 300-page book full of articles, news releases and proposals chronicling her years of advocacy of changing the rules under which the Legislature operates.
 ''My record is pretty good on reform,'' she said, in an interview before the dinner. ''Long before it was fashionable, I was making my colleagues in Albany uncomfortable because of the reform positions that I took.'' 
 Specifically, she said, she had called for ending the practice of paying additional money to legislators for jobs that were essentially political.
 She described Mr. Valesky as a latecomer to the issue. ''He has no name recognition and no record on which to run,'' Ms. Hoffmann said. ''So, his strategy is to distort my record on reform and to attack me personally.''
 More specifically, she was referring to an item included in one of Mr. Valesky's television advertisements accusing her of hiring a man with whom she is romantically involved as a part-time employee on her Senate staff.
 In the interview before the Canastota dinner, she acknowledged that the hiring might have been a mistake: ''Had I to do it over again, I might have done it differently. I might have considered another approach. It's unfortunate that it was given as much attention as it did.''
 Ms. Hoffmann's supporters say there are reasons to be optimistic. For one thing, she beat Mr. Dadey in the Republican primary with 55 percent of the vote. Also, the district has slightly more registered Republicans than Democrats, with about a quarter of the voters not affiliated with either party.
 Mr. Valesky is hoping that discontent with the drain of jobs in this area coupled with residents' complaints about high taxes will lead them to hold incumbents like Ms. Hoffmann accountable.
 ''Residents in central New York understand the connection between the dysfunctional Legislature and the problems they experience,'' Mr. Valesky said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: David Valesky, a Democrat, and State Senator Nancy Larraine Hoffmann, a Republican, at a Lions Club political forum in Canastota, N.Y. (Photo by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ETHICS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); EDUCATION FUNDING (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Ethics

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Jonathan P Hicks; Nancy Larraine (Sen) Hoffmann; David J Valesky; Thomas V Jr Dadey

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; Syracuse (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



652 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Future In an Old Industry

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Saritha Rai contributed reporting from Bangalore, India, for this article.

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
The $17.8 billion, three-way deal that Lakshmi N. Mittal, a financier based in London, announced this week would put him at the head of the largest, most geographically diverse steel company in the world. 
 Despite his low profile in the United States, international peers and investors say that Mr. Mittal's ascendancy was predictable -- over several decades of acquisitions, he has shown an uncanny knack for buying assets shunned by others and turning them into viable businesses just before demand for their products surged. 
 The new Mittal Steel would be made up of LNM Holdings and Ispat International, two Mittal family companies that would be merged and then would buy the International Steel Group for $4.5 billion. 
 The Mittal family would end up with 88 percent of the new company. Once up and running, Mittal Steel would ship 57 million tons of steel a year from plants in 14 countries, and generate annual operating income of about $7 billion.
 Mr. Mittal, 54, has made little secret of his intent to pursue more acquisitions in the future. ''We are a global company, we look at opportunities,'' he said in a telephone interview.
 Steel industry specialists say that Mr. Mittal's skill lies in finding bargains where others see little of value. ''This guy has bought things that a lot of other people thought were dead ducks,'' said Peter Fish, the managing director at Meps (International), a British consultant to the steel industry.
 For example, ''while the Europeans and the Americans and the Japanese were sitting and thinking about'' investing in the former Soviet republics like Kazakhstan, Mr. Mittal moved in, Mr. Fish said. 
 Admirers say he has the courage to take bold chances. ''You have to ask yourself, 'Why is he, or Rockefeller, or any other big businessman, successful?''' said Erlan Idrissov, Kazakhstan's ambassador to Britain and formerly its minister of foreign affairs. ''I believe it is because he has guts.''
 In many ways, Mr. Mittal does not fit the mold of a corporate poker player. In conversation, he is reserved and a good listener, associates say. He says he likes to spend his free time with his wife of 30 years, Usha, and also enjoys going to the gym. In an interview, he repeatedly deflects questions about personal ambition or his deal-finding acumen, and instead simply gives his outlook on the steel industry. ''I have always believed in consolidation,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Mittal, one of the wealthiest men in Britain, has far from austere tastes. Born in Calcutta, he has made his home in London for more than 20 years, and the British tabloids revel in reporting the spending habits of the man The Economist has called the ''Carnegie from Calcutta.'' In April, he purchased a house near Kensington Palace for an estimated $:70 million ($128 million). And in June, he threw a five-day, 1,000-guest wedding celebration in Paris for his only daughter, Vanisha, who married Amit Bhatia, a London investment banker who was born in New Delhi. The wedding featured performances by the British pop singer Kylie Minogue and several Bollywood stars. 
 He has also been criticized by some British politicians for donations to Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor Party. In 2001, Mr. Blair wrote a letter congratulating the Romanian government on the sale of some mills to Mr. Mittal. At the time, Britain's local steel company, Corus, was shedding jobs, and some viewed Mr. Blair's support for a non-British company as suspect. Ispat International is based in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
 Even critics, though, say his views on the steel industry seem prescient. Mr. Mittal says he believes that in 10 years, the steel industry will be dominated by a handful of companies, which will ship 80 to 100 million tons a year each. Today, the six largest producers control just 18 percent of the world's steel output, according to the CRU Group, a metals consulting firm. That number will climb to 23 percent when the Mittal Steel deals close, expected in the first quarter of 2005. 
 Mr. Mittal has been in the steel industry for most of his life. The Mittal family traces its beginnings to Marwar in the desert state of Rajasthan in western India. The Marwaris were traders who migrated to other parts of India and established some of the country's biggest businesses.
 Lakshmi Mittal got his start in the steel industry at PT Ispat Indo, an Indian mining company founded by his father, Mohan Lal Mittal, and bought his first plant in Indonesia in 1976. He spent the next 20 years building up the company that became LNM, and its publicly traded operating company Ispat International, scouting and buying mills in Trinidad, Mexico and Western Europe. 
 In 1995, he did what is viewed as the quintessential Mittal deal, buying up post-Soviet mills in Kazakhstan for an initial investment of $450 million. At the time, it was an area that few businessmen deigned to consider. 
 When Mr. Mittal bought them, the mills were bankrupt, the power supply was unreliable, and the workers had not been paid in six months. ''It was more of a mess than you can imagine,'' said Chris Beauman, senior adviser with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was trying to attract investors to the formerly Communist steel works, but had not promoted this one because it was viewed as a lost cause. 
 A year later, the Kazakh mills were running smoothly, and sales were flowing to China, Mr. Beauman said. ''He had taken what many thought was an unsolvable, horrific problem, and made it work,'' said Mr. Beauman. The European development bank has since lent Mr. Mittal about $60 million for use in Kazakhstan, for environmental and quality improvements.
 Murli Deora, a former member of the Indian parliament from Mumbai, recalls traveling to the Kazakhstan mill with Mr. Mittal. Mr. Mittal insisted on braving foul weather in his personal jet, even though most airlines had stopped service, to meet and have lunch with about 500 workers at the mill, Mr. Deora said. 
 Over the weekend, as bankers and lawyers put the final touches on the mammoth Mittal Steel deals, Mr. Mittal seemed remarkably unruffled, advisers said. Friday night, when all the lawyers and investment bankers met in the office of one law firm, Mr. Mittal spent his time ''chatting to everyone from relatively junior lawyers to the great and the good, offering a handshake and a thank you,'' said one adviser who was there. ''He seemed to be thriving on it, not stressing on it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lakshmi N. Mittal says he sees consolidation as the coming trend for steel, as in many other industries. (Photos by Ron Schwane/Associated Press [above]
 Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News [inset]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%) Steel and Iron; International Trade and World Market; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Production; Steel and Iron

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (58%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Mittal Steel; Lnm Holdings; Ispat International Ltd; International Steel Group

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (58%); MT (PAR) (58%); MT (NYSE) (58%); MT (AMS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (58%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (58%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (58%)

PERSON: LAKSHMI N MITTAL (93%) Heather Timmons; Lakshmi N Mattal

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); KOLKATA, INDIA (65%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (73%) KAZAKHSTAN (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004



653 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Billion-Dollar Ball In Delta Pilots' Hands

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines' pilots, by far the best paid in the airline industry, face a painful choice over the next couple of weeks: accept a tentative deal that calls for a one-third cut in pay, or reject it and risk losing their jobs if Delta goes into bankruptcy and falters.
 If the pilots approve the concession deal, reached late Wednesday, they will be declaring a formal end to an era of high salaries in the airline industry. The industry, which once offered some of the most elite jobs in the American economy, has been wounded by high fuel costs even as stiff competition from low-fare airlines has prevented companies from raising prices to cover their costs.
 Among major airlines, Delta is the only one that has not been able to reduce its labor costs, in bankruptcy or out of it. Yet neither side is pretending the deal alone will save Delta from bankruptcy. 
 It is ''one very important and necessary piece of a very complex puzzle,'' Delta's chief executive, Gerald A. Grinstein, said yesterday in a memo to employees. ''Make no doubt about it, due to Delta's precarious financial situation, many uncertainties remain.''
 In his own message to pilots, John J. Malone, the chairman of the Delta chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association, described the deal as protection in case the airline files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
 The agreement ''will hopefully buy Delta additional time'' to continue its restructuring efforts outside bankruptcy court, Mr. Malone said.
 If Delta cannot avoid a bankruptcy filing, three of the industry's six major companies would be under bankruptcy protection, with the three others -- American, Continental and Northwest -- in questionable financial shape. 
 ''This is not a picnic,'' said Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary, who is now a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University. ''This is very, very difficult for people to deal with.''
 Given the dire circumstances, Mr. Grinstein did not waver from his demand for cuts worth $1 billion, rather than compromise on the $705 million offered by the pilots. 
 As a result, Mr. Grinstein, who has been in place since January, potentially passes his first significant test by reaching the tentative deal, which includes provisions that the pilots long resisted as far too harsh.
 Delta's stock, which climbed this week on rumors of a deal with the pilots, rose another 16 percent yesterday to close at $5.72.
 The plan gave pilots something they insisted upon, too: the chance to buy shares that would give them a 15 percent stake in Delta, though they did not get the board seat they wanted. 
 But that is the only bright spot for the pilots, who will vote on the plan starting on Monday, with results expected on Nov. 11. It includes a 32.5 percent pay cut, starting Dec. 1. Salaries at Delta, which top out at $287,000 for the most experienced pilots, will be frozen for the next five years. The airline's pension plan will also be frozen; future contributions will be made through a 401 (k) plan. 
 Yet Delta pilots, who have never been asked to take such cuts before, can see from the example set by the industry's bankrupt players that things could be much worse.
 United, whose pilots' pay has already been cut 25 percent in its two years in bankruptcy, plans to outline plans next month for another round of cuts.
 This month, US Airways' pilots approved their third round of concessions in two years, including pay cuts of 18 percent over the next five years.
 By reaching a tentative deal, Delta's pilots followed the guidance of their national union, which has repeatedly counseled members that it is wiser to reach settlements with the companies before the airlines file for bankruptcy. 
 ''Once you get into bankruptcy court, you lose all control over your destiny,'' said John Mazor, a spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association.
 The talks that culminated in the Delta deal, in fact, were held at the union's national headquarters, which analysts said was a reflection of the high priority that the pilots' group placed on the negotiations. 
 The agreement followed 18 months of discussions between the airline and the union, with Mr. Grinstein playing an active role since becoming chief executive. On Wednesday, with a deadline set by Delta looming, Mr. Grinstein phoned Mr. Malone from Atlanta, asking for a yes or no answer to Delta's final offer.
 Unless pilots agreed to the deal, Delta's board was prepared to approve a Chapter 11 filing at its meeting yesterday, people inside the airline said. Facing that ultimatum, leaders of the pilots' union accepted the company's offer.
 Delta had applied increasing pressure on the union in the last few days, both at the bargaining table and in its financial dealings. On Friday, Delta officials said the airline was ready to seek bankruptcy protection by the middle of this week if a deal did not happen, the first time it had disclosed its deadline.
 This week, Delta lined up a series of agreements, including a $600 million arrangement with American Express Travel Related Services, which hinged on a deal with the pilots.
 Less formally, the pilots also faced pressure from within their profession. Over the years, pilots at other airlines had watched enviously as Delta pilots kept their contract intact, while counterparts at American, Northwest, US Airways and United all granted concessions.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pilots begin voting Monday on concessions. Gerald A. Grinstein, the chief executive, told Delta employees yesterday that many uncertainties remain. (Photo by Mike Simons/Getty Images)
 (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)Chart: ''Highlights of the Agreement''WHAT IT MEANS FOR DELTA'S PILOTSPay cut of 32.5 percentFreeze in pay for the next five yearsFreeze in the pension planIntroduction of a 401(k) planOption to buy company shares that could give them a 15 percent equity stakeWHAT IT MEANS FOR THE COMPANYAnnual savings of $1 billion 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (96%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); AIR FARES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); EXECUTIVES (52%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (82%) Delta Air Lines; Air Line Pilots Assn

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard; John J Malone; Gerald A Grinstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



654 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Two German Automakers Report Mixed Earnings

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
Germany, with its high costs, reluctant consumers and restive auto workers, has become a major drag on the country's two largest carmakers, DaimlerChrysler and Volkswagen, which both reported mixed earnings on Thursday.
 DaimlerChrysler had an operating profit of 1.3 billion euros ($1.65 billion) in the third quarter because of the resurgence of its Chrysler division. That is about a 7 percent increase over the period a year ago.
 But the company's success in the United States was marred by sagging profit at Mercedes-Benz, which had anemic sales, particularly in Germany, and has been forced to embark on a costly campaign to improve its quality. 
 Profit at Volkswagen dropped 65 percent in the third quarter, to 76 million euros ($97 million), compared with the period a year ago. It was the seventh consecutive quarter of declining profit at Volkswagen, which has languished in the United States and China, as well as at home.
 Still, Volkswagen consoled shareholders by sticking to its forecast of a full-year operating profit of 1.9 billion euros ($2.4 billion) before special charges -- a goal it had already reduced once, last summer. 
 Shares of Volkswagen and DaimlerChrysler rose modestly in heavy trading here. 
 For both companies, Germany is proving to be a chronic headache. As they seek to cut labor costs, each has clashed with workers over wages and work rules. DaimlerChrysler settled its labor dispute last summer; Volkswagen is in tense negotiations with its union.
 Though they are global companies, both depend on Germany, which has yet to regain its economic footing. Over all, DaimlerChrysler's sales rose 3 percent in the third quarter, compared with last year. But sales in the European Union fell 2 percent, and in Germany 7 percent. 
 ''Demand continued to be weak in Western Europe, and more especially in Germany,'' Manfred Gentz, the chief financial officer of DaimlerChrysler, said in a call with analysts.
 Operating profit at Mercedes, once the company's money machine, fell 62 percent, to 304 million euros ($386 million) in the third quarter. Some of that decline was related to the rising euro and the weaker dollar, which makes Mercedes cars more expensive in the United States.
 But Mercedes was also hurt by what Mr. Gentz called a ''strong deterioration'' in its Smart group, which makes small vehicles for Europe's narrow streets and has designs on the American market.
 Analysts say the most disturbing long-term issue for Mercedes is its quality. With complaints about glitches multiplying, Mercedes has undertaken a campaign to repair the problems. It has also delayed the introduction of some models so they are not sold with similar problems.
 ''Quality costs are significant, they are very significant,'' Mr. Gentz said. But he added, ''I think we can really say and prove that vehicles that left our factories in the last 12 months have had almost no problems.''
 Standard & Poor's, which reaffirmed its rating on DaimlerChrysler's debt, said in a note to clients that it was concerned by the negative trends at Mercedes, particularly the quality issue. But it expressed confidence that the division would ''return to its previous position of strength.''
 DaimlerChrysler named Eckhard Cordes, the former head of its commercial vehicle unit, to run Mercedes. Mr. Cordes turned around the struggling commercial business by closing plants and cutting costs. The company hopes he will bring the same magic to its flagship division.
 The problems at Mercedes have put Chrysler in the unaccustomed position of star division at DaimlerChrysler. After suffering losses and layoffs, Chrysler's operating profit rose 48 percent, to $269 million, in the third quarter, despite the continued reliance on sales incentives in the American market.
 Chrysler's new models, particularly the 300 sedan and the Dodge Magnum, have been popular.
 Volkswagen found it harder to point to a bright spot. Its once-dominant market share in China has been eroded, mainly by General Motors, and it is on track to lose 1 billion euros in North America in 2004. In Germany, Volkswagen's new Golf has been a disappointment.
 The chief executive, Bernd Pischetsrieder, plans to trim 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) in costs by 2005. Volkswagen's workers are threatening to strike over its demand that they accept a wage freeze and reductions in benefits. The company aims to lower its labor costs 30 percent by 2011. Volkswagen's union demanded a 4 percent wage increase, which it trimmed to 2 percent.
 A VW spokesman, Dirk Grosse-Leege, said: ''If you want to reduce your labor costs, you cannot start with a wage hike. We're giving them the opportunity to have the same amount of money in their pockets.''
 Volkswagen and the union, IG Metall, held more talks on Thursday. But officials from IG Metall said there had been no progress and vowed to start holding warning strikes at Volkswagen's flagship factory in Wolfsburg and other German plants.
 While DaimlerChrysler is enjoying labor peace, it has other personnel-related problems. The company disclosed it was being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission over its compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which forbids the paying of bribes.
 The investigation stems from a whistle-blower complaint filed with the Labor Department by a former employee, David Bazzetta. Mr. Bazzetta, who worked in Chrysler's finance department, has filed a lawsuit in federal court, in which he accuses Chrysler of maintaining a secret bank account in South America to bribe foreign officials.
 DaimlerChrysler said in a statement that there was no merit to Mr. Bazzetta's lawsuit. It said that he had been dismissed by Chrysler, and was ''not happy to have left the company.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: DaimlerChrysler reported a profit thanks to its Chrysler division, but the Mercedes-Benz unit had anemic sales. (Photo by Ingo Wagner/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C1)
 Operating profit at Mercedes, once DaimlerChrysler's money machine, fell 62 percent, to 304 million euros ($386 million) in the third quarter. (Photo by Jose Giribas/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); US DOLLAR (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag; Volkswagen Ag; Mercedes-Benz Ag

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (93%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



655 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Claims for Jobless Insurance Increase 20,000 in Week

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits rose by 20,000 last week, the Labor Department said yesterday.
 First-time claims for state unemployment insurance rose to 350,000 in the week ended Oct. 23, from an upwardly revised figure of 330,000 in the previous week. 
Economists had said they expected the rise to be to 338,000 from the previous week's original measure of 329,000.
 A department analyst said there were still some hurricane-related claims in the data, but did not cite a specific reason for the weekly increase. The four hurricanes that struck Florida and other states in August and September put many people out of work.
 Despite the increase in new claims, the four-week moving average of new unemployment claims fell for the second consecutive week, to 343,250 from 348,750 in the previous period. 
 The figure announced yesterday was the lowest since mid-September. Economists view the moving average as a more accurate measure of employment trends because it compensates for weekly volatility.
 ''The moving average for claims is consistent with an economy that has slowed a bit from what we saw in the previous three quarters,'' said David W. Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association.
 Total benefit rolls rose by 38,000 to reach 2.82 million in the week ended Oct. 16, the latest period for which those figures are available.
 A more comprehensive snapshot of the economy is likely to emerge with the Labor Department's Nov. 5 release of the October employment report. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (95%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); HURRICANES (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (70%); WEATHER (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (51%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (51%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



656 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Region Gets Less Federal Money For Taxes Paid, a Study Finds

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. Oct. 28 

 BODY:
If the tristate region seceded and established itself as a separate country, it would replace the United States as the second-wealthiest nation in the world behind Luxembourg in terms of per capita income, according to a new study by Rutgers University.
 Given their wealth and the nation's progressive tax system, taxpayers in Connecticut, New York and New Jersey pay a disproportionately high share of the nation's federal income and employment taxes, the study found. Those states rank 49th, 40th and 50th, respectively, in the amount of federal aid they receive per tax dollar, according to the study.
 With 10.8 percent of the nation's population, the tristate region had 13.1 percent of the nation's personal income in 2003, and was responsible for 15.8 percent of the income and employment taxes collected by the federal government. 
 In New Jersey, the gap between what was sent to Washington in tax dollars and what came back to the state in federal assistance was $26 billion, an amount greater than the state's 2003-2004 budget. New Mexico, on the other hand, got $2.08 in aid for every dollar of federal income tax its residents paid.
 James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy and principal author of the study, said the figures underscore the responsibility that comes with affluence in a system of progressive taxation. 
 ''To the degree that the money is going for valid public policy purposes, it is fine,'' he said. ''But if it goes for subsidies and unfair tax breaks for cowboy capitalists in other states, then it is not fair.''
 The study,''Tri-State Affluence: Losing by Winning,'' was the first, Mr. Hughes said, to view the three states as a group in analyzing the return they get for federal tax dollars. Similar studies for New York were done in the 1970's as the city grappled with a fiscal crisis and sought a rationale for increased federal aid.
 Joseph Seneca, a faculty member at the school and a co-author of the study, said the region has been the nation's richest since the 19th century, and had ''reinvented itself'' as manufacturing declined to become a hub for service and financial businesses, which boomed in the 1990's.
 In the study, Connecticut ranked first in per capita income in 2003 at $43,173, New Jersey second at $40,427 and New York fifth at $36,574. The national average is $31,632.
 In terms of median household income, New Jersey led the nation with $58,588 annually, 34 percent above the national average. Connecticut ranked third with $56,803, while New York was 17th with $46,195.
 The study found that those higher incomes were not consistently spread throughout each state, but concentrated in a ''wealth belt'' made up of eight counties, including Manhattan, whose greater concentration of wealthy individuals outpaced all of the other counties in the nation in per capita income at $84,591.
 The higher incomes were concentrated in Fairfield County in Connecticut; Somerset, Hunterdon, Morris and Bergen Counties in New Jersey; and Manhattan and Nassau and Westchester Counties in New York.
 The wealthier areas of all three states were disproportionately dependent on the high salaries of the financial sector, said Mr. Hughes, and consequently were more sensitive to the volatile boom and bust cycles in the stock market. One consequence, he said, was that soaring tax receipts in the 1990's during the economic boom financed an expansion of government functions that became ''embedded'' in state spending.
 With the downturn in the economy and the stock market in particular between 2000 and 2003, this level of spending became harder to sustain.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Giving More Than They Get''Residents of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut pay among the most in federal taxes and receive among the least in return in the form of aid.New YorkFEDERAL INDIVIDUAL TAXES*: $147 billionRANK: 2FEDERAL SPENDING PER DOLLAR TAXED: 85 centsRANK: 40New JerseyFEDERAL INDIVIDUAL TAXES*: 76RANK: 6FEDERAL SPENDING PER DOLLAR TAXED: 62RANK: 50ConnecticutFEDERAL INDIVIDUAL TAXES*: 31RANK: 18FEDERAL SPENDING PER DOLLAR TAXED: 65RANK: 49*Income and employment taxes(Sources by Internal Revenue Service
 Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); RANKINGS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%) Taxation; Federal Aid (Us)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%) Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut; New York State; New Jersey; Luxembourg

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



657 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Into the Wild Blue Yesteryear

 BODY:
Americans can now feel reassured that if the Soviet Union ever springs back to life, restarts the cold war and designs a new MIG fighter more advanced than anything now in the skies, the United States Air Force is ready. Unfortunately, when it comes to fighting today's war in Iraq, the Pentagon is still struggling to get enough armor into the field to protect its exhausted and badly stretched troops and rebuild their battle-damaged equipment. 
 There are few more telling symbols of the Pentagon's disastrously misplaced priorities than this week's debut of the F/A-22 Raptor, the most expensive fighter ever built. This gold-plated cold war plane enters service some 23 years after it was first designed and at four times its originally projected price, even after adjusting for inflation. Every F-22 will cost taxpayers more than a quarter of a billion dollars. The Air Force plans to buy 277. 
 The F-22 is a technological marvel. It can stealthily penetrate advanced radar defenses at supersonic speeds, pick up electronic intelligence as it flies, outmaneuver other planes in aerial dogfights and deliver smart bombs against enemy targets. But even today's $400 billion-plus military budgets are not bloated enough for such expensive fantasy weapons designed to fight yesterday's foes.
 Today's foes tend to be highly motivated low-tech warriors, who blend in and out of urban civilian populations or hide in remote mountains and caves. They are practiced in ambushing lightly armored American military vehicles with roadside bombs and rocket-propelled grenades. They show up suddenly in remote and unexpected places, which are sometimes beyond the limited flying range of fighter jets. There are also more cost-effective ways to deliver bombs, including unpiloted drones, and to gather intelligence, including the use of satellites and trained linguists. The $72 billion for the Raptor could be much better spent protecting America's ground forces against the dangers they face today and will continue to face for the conceivable future.
 But this is Air Force money, and there would be shock, awe and anger among military bureaucrats and defense contracting executives if it was redirected to different services, like the Army and Marines, and different needs, like more ground troops for Iraq. These budgeting dogmas are as bipartisan as they are dysfunctional. It is the responsibility of this administration, and the one to be elected next Tuesday, to shut down these extravagant and unjustified programs. That is the best way to ensure that America can afford what it really needs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); RADAR SYSTEMS (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); BUDGETS (73%) 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (91%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



658 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes, Vaccines Can Be Good for Business

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
As the nation tries to comprehend this year's shortage of flu vaccine, many experts have explained that the vaccines business holds little allure for drug companies, because of low prices, strict regulations and uncertain demand. 
 But try telling that to Nabi Biopharmaceuticals, a small company in Boca Raton, Fla., which is testing one vaccine to protect patients in hospitals and kidney dialysis centers from potentially fatal bacterial infections and another to help people quit smoking. 
 Or tell it to Vical, a San Diego company trying to develop an arsenal of bioengineered vaccines for viruses like those that cause Ebola, West Nile and SARS. 
 Or tell it to Wyeth, a big drug maker whose vaccine Prevnar, used against the pneumococcal bacteria that can cause pneumonia, meningitis and ear infections, costs more than $250 for the four-dose treatment given to infants. Despite the price, the government has recommended that all infants get the vaccine, and insurers generally pay for it -- as does the federal Vaccines for Children program for low-income families. Prevnar, with sales expected to top $1 billion this year, would be the world's first ''blockbuster'' vaccine. 
 Vaccines, it turns out, can make for pretty good business.
 Even flu vaccines, despite challenges that include the need to reformulate the medicine each season, are potentially more lucrative than they used to be, with wholesale prices up fourfold since the late 90's. 
 ''I am not one of those who think this is an industry plagued by low prices, because it's not true,'' said Anthony F. Holler, chief executive of ID Biomedical, a Canadian company whose excess inventory of flu shots might help augment the American supply this winter. ''I just think that people are thinking of the business that occurred 10, 15 years ago.'' 
 The current shortage has more to do with past government and industry decisions, which reduced the nation's suppliers to two: Chiron and the vaccine unit of Sanofi-Aventis. That occurred in part because the business requires a heavy investment, which, economists say, tends to favor having fewer, big suppliers rather than many smaller ones. 
 Now, to help prevent shortages, the government is considering steps that include expanding the amount of flu vaccine it puts into an emergency stockpile for childhood vaccines. This was the first year the government decided to add flu vaccine to that stockpile. Another possibility is guaranteeing the purchase of a certain number of flu shots each year, possibly beyond what the industry is contemplating manufacturing. That might attract more companies to the business or induce existing ones to produce more than needed, providing some cushion in case one supplier runs into problems.
 As those proposals indicate, the vaccine business is as complex as the market dynamics that drive it. That is why the medicines receiving the biggest push from the industry are likely to be ones with a perceived market in the United States, which spends more than half the world's drug dollars. 
 With American free-market forces so heavily in play, vaccines for malaria or other diseases that mainly afflict developing countries are not likely to be pursued except through philanthropic efforts. But with diseases that affect Americans, the combination of new technologies, higher prices and new target populations -- adults, not children, for instance -- are opening new vistas for the business, even as the older childhood vaccines generally remain lower-priced commodities. 
 ''It's a tough business for older products,'' said R. Gordon Douglas, an industry consultant who ran the vaccine business for 10 years at Merck & Company. ''It's a good business for new products.'' 
 The role played by government can be crucial to determining what vaccines get produced, at what prices and in what quantities.
 For older vaccines used to prevent childhood diseases like mumps, measles and diphtheria, for example, more than half the doses are purchased by the federal Vaccines for Children program. Prices are capped so they rise no faster than inflation. At $10 to $30 a dose, such vaccines are not a growth market, which helps explain why there is only a single supplier for five of the eight recommended childhood vaccines and why periodic shortages still occur. 
 Like many of the older childhood immunizations, flu vaccines are considered commodities. But because most are sold through the private sector, there are no caps on prices. 
 In the late 1990's four companies supplied flu vaccines but two -- Wyeth and King Pharmaceuticals -- dropped out, citing low profits and heavy expenditures to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements to prevent contamination. 
 In the same period, however, demand for flu shots was on the rise as government health officials expanded the categories of people recommended to receive the vaccine. As a result of that demand and the reduction in the number of suppliers, flu vaccine prices have quadrupled since the late 1990's, to around $8 a dose wholesale. 
 That trend appeared to be attracting more companies to the field even before the recent shortage. Chiron, for instance, acquired a British flu vaccine company last year largely to enter the American market; it was problems at the British plant, not a lack of profit motive, that created Chiron's shortage. 
 And ID Biomedical of Canada had been planning to enter the American market in a few years, though the shortage might now speed its entry. Others, like Baxter International, have been weighing entering the market within a few years. 
 Various economic arguments can be made for why the government should play a role in promoting the use of vaccines. One is that they are among the most cost-effective modes of medicine. Preventing a disease -- often, the inoculation lasts a lifetime -- can be far less expensive than treating it once it develops and spreads. Economists have estimated that every dollar spent on some of the inexpensive childhood vaccines has yielded benefits as high as $27. But left to their own devices, individuals may not highly value vaccines because of the uncertainty that they themselves will ever get the disease. 
 Whatever the government's role, there are business obstacles for vaccines, including a much smaller market than with drugs. Total sales of all vaccines worldwide are around $8 billion, less than sales of Pfizer's Lipitor cholesterol-lowering pill alone. 
 And because vaccines are given to healthy people, safety and liability concerns can be greater than with drugs, which are given to sick people, who are willing to bear some risk of side effects to get better. Liability concerns drove many companies out of the vaccine business before Congress enacted a law in 1986 providing some protection to makers of childhood vaccines. Companies say they are still vulnerable on adult vaccines and are still being sued for the use of thimerosal, a mercury-containing preservative that has been largely removed from pediatric vaccines. 
 Potential liability is also on the mind of Merck, which hopes to get approval for a vaccine aimed at rotavirus, a cause of life-threatening diarrhea. The company is testing it on 70,000 children -- an enormous number for a clinical trial -- because the company wants to rule out a rare side effect that caused a rotavirus vaccine by Wyeth to be pulled from the market in 1999. 
 Merck, which recently withdrew its painkiller Vioxx from the market and has had several drugs fail in clinical trials, is counting three vaccines among the most important products it expects to bring to market in the next few years. Besides the rotavirus vaccine, there is one for human papilloma virus, which is believed to cause cervical cancer. The third is for shingles, a disease of adults caused by the chickenpox virus. 
 As Merck's efforts indicate, many of the newer vaccines aim at adult diseases. ''In the next 15 to 20 years we're going to move from pediatric vaccines to adolescent vaccines and adult vaccines,'' said Vijay B. Samant, chief executive of Vical. 
 If, as some economists argue, vaccines are underused relative to their value to public health, then the government could have several roles. 
 Urging vaccination, as is done for childhood diseases, assures manufacturers of a market. And the government can buy vaccines for a stockpile, as it is now doing for vaccines for anthrax and smallpox. 
 But industry officials, like Wayne Pisano of Aventis Pasteur, the vaccine unit of Sanofi-Aventis, say the most important factor for a healthy vaccine business is higher prices. ''You can't have high investment, high regulatory requirements and low prices,'' Mr. Pisano said.

Chart: ''Vaccinations in the Pipeline''
Here are the top five manufacturers and some of the areas where they are concentrating their vaccine development efforts.

Cervical cancer: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, MERCK
Childhood diseases*: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS, MERCK
Cytomegalovirus+: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS
Dengue fever: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS
Hepatitis: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, CHIRON
H.I.V.: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS, MERCK, CHIRON
Influenza: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS, CHIRON
Meningitis: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS, CHIRON, WYETH
Mononucleosis: GLAXOSMITH KLINE
Pneumonia: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS, WYETH
Rotavirus$S: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, MERCK
SARS: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS
Sexually transmitted: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, AVENTIS
Shingles: GLAXOSMITH KLINE, MERCK

*Includes: Measles, mumps, rubella, chicken pox, tetanus, whooping cough, polio and diphtheria

+May cause birth defects

$SMay cause potentially fatal diarrhea

(Sources by The companies)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); ANTIVIRALS (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BIOLOGICS MFG (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); BACTERIA (90%); DRUG SHORTAGES (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); MENINGITIS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PNEUMONIA (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (77%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SARS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); HOSPITALS (76%); TROPICAL DISEASES (73%); INSURANCE (72%); WHOLESALE PRICES (72%); SMOKING (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (71%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); DIALYSIS (71%); FAMILY (67%); SMOKING CESSATION (56%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%) 

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (84%); BIOTA PHARMACEUTICALS INC (58%); VICAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Nabi Biopharmaceuticals; Vical Inc; Wyeth; ID Biomedical; Glaxosmithkline ; Aventis; Merck & Co Inc

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (84%); SANF (BIT) (84%); SAN (PAR) (84%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (84%); BOTA (NASDAQ) (58%); VICL (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



659 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: LEGAL MOVES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Adviser in Lindh Case Sues Justice Dept.

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
A former Justice Department lawyer who says she was forced out of her job in 2002 after raising legal and ethical objections over the handling of the John Walker Lindh case in Afghanistan sued the department on Thursday for taking ''illegal retaliatory actions'' against her.
 In a federal lawsuit, the lawyer, Jesselyn Radack, accused Justice Department officials of destroying internal e-mail messages that spelled out her concerns about the Federal Bureau of Investigation's interrogation of Mr. Lindh after he was captured with the Taliban in late 2001.
 Justice Department officials declined to comment on the lawsuit. They have previously defended both the department's interrogation of Mr. Lindh and its treatment of Ms. Radack. 
 At the time of Mr. Lindh's celebrated capture, Ms. Radack was working as a legal adviser in a Justice Department office that counseled federal prosecutors on issues of professional responsibility and ethics. She said she had received an inquiry from a federal prosecutor in December 2001 about whether the bureau could seek to interview Mr. Lindh after his father had retained a lawyer for him in California.
 Ms. Radack said she had advised the prosecutor that any bureau interview bypassing Mr. Lindh's lawyer would not be authorized under federal law.
 But Justice Department officials disagreed, saying they were not bound by the hiring of a lawyer by a suspect's family in such a situation. The bureau went ahead with Mr. Lindh's interrogation. Mr. Lindh later pleaded guilty to supporting the Taliban and agreed to a 20-year sentence, which he is seeking to have reduced in light of the recent release of Yaser E. Hamdi, another American citizen captured in Afghanistan.
 Ms. Radack's run-ins with the Justice Department did not end with the interrogation. As the criminal case against Mr. Lindh was under way, Ms. Radack said in her lawsuit, she discovered that memorandums she had written raising ethical concerns about the propriety of the interrogation had been ''purged'' from the office file and apparently not turned over to a criminal court as required. 
 The Justice Department has denied that accusation, maintaining that all relevant material was properly disclosed.
 When she pressed the issue, Ms. Radack said, a supervisor threatened her with a negative review and told her to find another job. She resigned in April 2002 and went to work for a private law firm. 
 About two months later, Ms. Radack acknowledged in her lawsuit, she gave the e-mail memorandums to Newsweek magazine, which used them as the basis for an article in 2002 about dissension within the Justice Department over the Lindh interrogation.
 Justice Department officials have maintained that Ms. Radack's disclosure of the memorandums violated attorney-client communications. In her lawsuit, however, she said that her actions were ''authorized and protected'' by a federal whistle-blower statute insulating those who report government fraud and abuse.
 Ms. Radack said she was fired from the private law firm after she refused to say whether she had given the documents to Newsweek. The Justice Department opened a criminal investigation against her over the disclosure of government material and reported her actions to bar associations in the District of Columbia and Maryland. 
 The criminal investigation was closed last year without charges being brought. The bar reviews are continuing, and Ms. Radack, a Yale Law School graduate, said in an interview that while she had contacted about 20 law firms and legal groups about work, the cloud of the inquiries had made her ''unemployable.'' 
 One hope in suing the Justice Department, she said, was to bring the bar investigations to a quicker end and help to clear her name. 
 ''I thought this whole nightmare would be over a long time ago,'' said Ms. Radack, 33, who lives in Washington with her husband and three children. ''As much as I'd like to put all this behind me, I can't. My life is on hold, and I can't even get a job.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (96%); LAWYERS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TALIBAN (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); SENTENCING (72%) 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%) Taliban (Afghan Group); Federal Bureau of Investigation

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: Eric Lichtblau; John Walker Lindh; Jesselyn Radack

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



660 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Newsweekly In Hong Kong Falls Victim To Economy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
The Far Eastern Economic Review, an often incisive newsweekly for more than half a century, will become a monthly opinion magazine in December and virtually all its employees will lose their jobs, Dow Jones & Company announced on Thursday.
 Paul E. Steiger, the managing editor of The Wall Street Journal and the top Dow Jones executive for global news coverage, said that The Review was in its sixth consecutive year of losing money. He blamed the Asian financial crisis that began in 1997, the global economic slump in 2001 and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome last year, as well as a broader lack of advertiser interest in regional newsweeklies.
 ''This is not about reader acceptance, it's about advertisers,'' he said. ''It just seemed that the advertisers either preferred a daily like The Asian Wall Street Journal, or really local publications or global publications.'' 
 Peter R. Kann, the chairman and chief executive of Dow Jones, said in a memorandum to employees that the move would allow the company to focus on The Asian Wall Street Journal as its flagship in the region.
 ''I believe the era of regional newsweeklies, even excellent ones like The Review, is nearing an end given the many other available sources of daily and more frequent news and analysis,'' he wrote.
 But Asia remains important to Dow Jones, he said, noting that the company plans to introduce an Indian edition of The Wall Street Journal soon and adding that ''we very much hope to begin printing The Asian Wall Street Journal in China soon.''
 The current issue of The Review, dated Nov. 4 and already on newsstands, will be the last in the current format. The monthly review will appear for the first time on Dec. 17.
 Hugo Restall, until recently the editorial page editor of The Asian Wall Street Journal, will head the new monthly. The magazine will be modeled to some extent on Foreign Affairs in that it will rely on articles contributed by academics, politicians and business executives.
 The reduced frequency of publication and shift to an emphasis on outside contributors will save Dow Jones money as it prepares for an ambitious project: starting a Saturday edition of The Wall Street Journal in the United States next year. But Mr. Steiger said that was not the reason for the decision to cut back at The Review.
 The Review has 32 news employees and a business staff of 48. While ''a handful'' may be hired by The Asian Wall Street Journal, the rest will lose their jobs, Mr. Steiger said. 
 An employee of The Review who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the company had agreed to pay staff members full wages through the end of the year. Employees hired in Hong Kong -- the bulk of the staff -- would then be paid up to 15,000 Hong Kong dollars ($1,923) for each year of service, in compliance with Hong Kong law.
 The monthly version of The Review will have a tiny staff. ''Editing, circulation, marketing -- the whole team will be about half a dozen,'' Mr. Steiger said.
 Journalism specialists and former Review editors criticized the Dow Jones decision. ''The corporate honchos based in the U.S., they don't care about news in Asia,'' said Ying Chan, the director of the journalism program at Hong Kong University. ''Basically, they said, 'Asian news, drop dead.'''
 Hamish McDonald, who served as The Review's political editor and as its bureau chief in Sydney and New Delhi from 1984 to 1995, said that Dow Jones had made a mistake in 1992 when it began bringing in large numbers of American reporters and editors, replacing longtime expatriates, and tried to broaden the newsweekly's coverage.
 Founded here in 1946 by Eric Halpern, an immigrant from Austria, The Review for many years provided detailed coverage of everything from Malaysian politics to Korean business. Its information-packed style assumed a fairly high level of reader knowledge, and it became essential reading for policy makers and corporate executives alike.
 A series of makeovers starting in 1992 resulted in more lifestyle features and articles written for broader audiences, with simpler explanations of the people and issues involved. Despite these efforts, circulation remained fairly flat over the last decade at around 90,000. 
 Dow Jones said it would take a charge of about $3 million, or 2 cents a share, for the layoffs in its fourth-quarter results and said the shift from a weekly to a monthly would modestly increase per-share earnings in 2005.


GRAPHIC: Photo: After the current issue, The Far Eastern Economic Review will be replaced with a monthly journal. (Photo by Mike Clarke/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); NEWSSTANDS (64%); TRENDS (60%) Magazines; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Economic Conditions and Trends; Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome); Advertising and Marketing; Magazines; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (94%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Far Eastern Economic Review; Dow Jones & Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Paul E Steiger; Hugo Restall

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



661 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Problems for New Washington Team

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
Maybe the idea of financing a new stadium here for the relocated Montreal Expos seemed easy last month when the city received the news that Major League Baseball would send the team to the nation's capital. 
 The celebratory rally was led by the bow-tied Mayor Anthony A. Williams, who wore a red Senators cap, John Fogerty's song ''Centerfield'' played on loudspeakers and children in baseball uniforms shared the stage with politicians eager to congratulate themselves.
 Legislation to authorize the $440 million stadium package is still likely to pass, but the ride is getting bumpy. 
 The plan has exposed a schism within the District of Columbia's City Council, which must approve it, and among its citizens, over the size and predominance of the public contribution -- taxes on tickets, concessions and parking at the ballpark, plus a citywide business tax. The team will pay rent starting at $3.5 million annually. 
 With the attention on the cost of bringing the Expos to Washington, it was not surprising that the joke inside the council's hearing room Thursday was that there were probably more people in attendance for a session about the financing than used to attend a typical Expos game in Olympic Stadium in Montreal.
 The 160-seat room was filled with supporters and detractors of the increasingly divisive financing plan, and more than 230 people signed up to voice their views -- the most for any City Council hearing and a number that stretched the hearing to Friday.
 As in many stadium and arena debates, like the one involving the Nets' move to downtown Brooklyn into a complex being built by the team owner, Bruce C. Ratner, the fight here centers on whether public money being dedicated to sports facilities would be better used on schools, libraries and recreation centers.
 ''Why has this caused such a convulsion in the city?'' said Jim Graham, a council Democrat, during the hearing. ''People feel woefully underserved in basic city services.''
 A similar argument is being waged over the Jets' plan to build a stadium on the West Side of Manhattan. 
 The Jets said they would spend $800 million, the most ever for a stadium. The public financing has become the centerpiece of television commercials pitting the Jets against Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden.
 The district's government is on a fast track to approve legislation to pass the financing by the end of the year. The rush is two-fold: It has to renovate R.F.K. Stadium as an interim home for the Expos. But second, in a Democratic primary last month, three supporters of the plan on the council were defeated by opponents of the financing. Those three primary winners, including the former mayor Marion Barry are expected to win the general election next week. At least 9 of the 13 members of the council support the plan.
 In the past few days events have accelerated. The Brookings Institution and the Cato Institute issued reports critical of the financing plan, and the city's chief financial officer said that the cost of the project would be $91 million more than Williams has estimated. 
 To counter criticism that the city was ignoring social services to chase the allure of baseball, Williams on Wednesday announced a plan to create a $400 million fund for social projects with taxes raised from economic activity in the district surrounding the proposed stadium. He is looking for an interim source of financing until such a district exists.
 Critics dislike the public financing part of the plan, particularly the stipulation for a levy on businesses with at least $3 million in revenues, whose proceeds would be critical to repaying bonds for the project.
 David Catania, an independent council member, said the city is spending ''all its time and energy on fool's gold.'' This, he said with anger, ''is your government working for you.''
 Many of the critics insist that team owners should pay for all or most of the cost of the stadium, and in that belief, their heroes are Peter Magowan, the owner of the San Francisco Giants, who privately financed construction of SBC Park, and Abe Pollin, who did not get public money to build MCI Center in Washington. (Both receive government-financed infrastructure.)
 ''We're are putting a windfall into the pockets of people who don't need them,'' Adrian Fenty, a council Democrat, said during the hearing.
 Harold Brazil, a Democrat on the council and a supporter of Williams's plan, said before the hearing that the opposition speaks to deeper dissatisfaction. ''There's something going on in Washington, something beneath the surface, some discontent,'' he said. ''Parts of our citizenry aren't getting enough opportunity. It doesn't so much relate to baseball.''
 Williams chose not to attend the hearing so he would not become the focus of the anger that he felt would come his way, a spokesman said.
 Mark Touhey, chairman of the D.C. Sports and Entertainment Commission, which negotiated with the city to import the Expos, said that competitive offers from other cities forced the city to raise its bid to M.L.B. ''But we were never prepared to go for 100 percent public financing,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Anthony A. Williams last month after learning the Expos would relocate to Washington. (Photo by Jamie Squire/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); BASEBALL (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); MAYORS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); SPORTS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); POLITICS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%) Baseball; City Councils; Stadiums and Arenas; Rfk Stadium (Washington, DC); Law and Legislation; Taxation; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL EXPOS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%) Montreal Expos

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



662 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Drop in Oil Prices Helps Shares Rise a Third Day

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Another sharp drop in oil prices helped Wall Street overcome profit taking yesterday and extend its gains to a third consecutive session.
 Concern over China's decision to raise its benchmark interest rate for the first time in nine years put pressure on materials and energy stocks, as investors worried about slower demand from what is the world's fastest-growing economy. The move, however, also encouraged selling in oil. 
 Oil prices dropped $1.54, to $50.92 a barrel, continuing Wednesday's sharp retreat and coaxing stock buyers back into the market in afternoon trading. 
 After profit taking kept the major indexes down through the morning, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.51 points, or 0.03 percent, to 10,004.54. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 2.04 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,127.44, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 5.75 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,975.74.
 Unemployment questions weighed on some investors, as the Labor Department reported a sharp increase in first-time jobless claims last week. The number of Americans filing for unemployment for the first time rose to 350,000, up 20,000 from last week -- the largest jump in a month.
 In one of the more notable initial public offerings of the year, DreamWorks Animation -- the studio responsible for the ''Shrek'' series of films -- jumped $10.75 from its $28 offering price to close at $38.75 a share.
 Companies reporting earnings experienced a mixed reception, despite generally good numbers, as investors looked more at fourth-quarter forecasts than current results.
 ''I think companies' earnings have been overlooked,'' said Som Dasgupta, managing director of trading at PNC Bank in Pittsburgh. ''Most of the S.&P. 500 has exceeded or met expectations. Valuations right now can be seen as pretty compelling.''
 Having enjoyed the sharp climb in oil prices through the third quarter, the Dow component Exxon Mobil posted record profits for the third quarter, beating analysts' increased forecasts by a penny a share. Exxon Mobil, which said it was poised to break its records for full-year revenues and profit, nonetheless lost 34 cents, to $48.61.
 Verizon Communications slipped 2 cents, to $39.38, after it also beat estimates by a penny a share. While profits were flat for the third quarter compared with a year ago, the wireless division turned in a strong performance, adding 1.7 million new customers.
 Aetna reported a nearly 500 percent increase in third-quarter profits, crediting higher health insurance membership and a one-time tax credit for the gains, which beat Wall Street estimates by 11 cents a share. The company also brightened its outlook for future profit. Aetna surged $3.55, to $95.30.
 Although Viacom swung to a loss in the third quarter because of a $1.5 billion charge for the spinoff of its Blockbuster video rental chain, the company's operating earnings still surpassed Wall Street expectations by a penny a share. Viacom gained $1.15, to $36.50.
 Raytheon was up 79 cents at $37.45 after it swung to a profit on a 13 percent increase in revenue. The company beat analysts' forecasts by 4 cents a share.
 Alcoa was one of the hardest hit stocks as investors worried about demand for metals in China after the increase in interest rates. The Dow component sank 96 cents, to $32.41.
 Treasury bond prices rose yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note gained 10/32, to a price of 101 19/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.05 percent from 4.09 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); ANIMATION (65%); ANIMATED FILMS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (54%); PNC BANK NA (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); VIACOM INC (50%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); DWA (NASDAQ) (54%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%); VIA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



663 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; HAVENS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: Garages for Chardonnays, Not Camrys

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: PIEDMONT, Calif. 

 BODY:
THE fever comes on suddenly for Tom Clark, a lawyer with the Port of Oakland, when he spies his office phone blinking with an urgent message. The news on the voice mail will haunt him, cost him sleep, draw him from his bed into the garage in the middle of the night, where, giddy and nervous with anticipation, he will wait in musty seclusion illuminated by a single light bulb until sweet deliverance arrives: 550 pounds of freshly picked wine grapes.
 ''I couldn't go to bed,'' he would say the next evening as he punched down a Rubbermaid container of fermenting booty with a toilet-bowl plunger. ''I wanted to play with those sangioveses.''
 In fact, the fever is rampant in northern California. At this time of year in neighborhoods like Mr. Clark's in Piedmont, a small bedroom community tucked into the Oakland hills, nondescript garages housing wet-vacs and lawn mowers are transformed into chateaus by ''garagistes'' -- amateur home vintners -- who obsess about malolactic fermentation and how to carpool 650 pounds of petit verdot grapes in the back seat during rush hour. 
 ''When the crush is in, there is nothing better,'' said Mr. Clark, whose two-car garage, along with the three-car garage of his neighbor Mike Masero, has been transformed into a grease-stained Napa. In this inelegant tableau, the two are producing their ambitious 2004 vintages -- about 2,000 bottles of 13 varieties -- that began with muscat canelli grapes crushed in August and continued to the sangioveses that Mr. Masero, an information technology specialist for a webcasting company, recently raced to pick up late after work.
 ''Part about having a passion about something is, you're not in control,'' said Mr. Clark, a sophisticated winemaker who will drop everything for the right grapes. ''You're having to accommodate yourself to some other force. There is also a kinetic energy to it. I sit in front of the computer all day, and it's a real relief. We're physical beings. So it's 'Let's go out there, get our hands all mucky and crush some grapes.' ''
 Spurred by the grape glut of recent years, do-it-yourselfism and, perhaps, the indefatigable baby boom desire for perfection, the garagiste scene is expanding throughout California, the Pacific Northwest, the Finger Lakes region of New York and other hubs of winemaking. Thanks to the increasing availability of cultured wine yeasts and wine-quality concentrated grape juice, home vintners are also flourishing in less likely places like Vermont and especially Canada, where, largely for economic reasons, one quarter of the wine consumed is now made by hobbyists, according to Brad Ring, publisher of WineMaker, a magazine geared to home winemakers founded six years ago in Manchester, Vt.
 Across the country, there are an estimated 750,000 home winemakers and counting, Mr. Ring said, among them members of intensely serious wine clubs like Cellarmasters Home Wine Club in Los Angeles, the Sacramento Home Winemakers and the Contra Costa Wine Group outside San Francisco, who compete in amateur wine competitions at state and county fairs and at events like the International Amateur Wine Competition in Vermont. Unlike the landed gentry or old-time rural families, most garagistes do not have their own vineyards but buy grapes in bulk, sometimes doing the picking themselves. They produce wine for their own consumption and to share or trade with friends; the sale of wine is limited to bonded wineries.
 ''You get close to your inner Dionysus,'' said Jerry Miller, 56, an energy utility analyst, who has been making wine since 1979 and whose garage, filled with neighbors and friends with chronically wine-purple hands during crush season, has the festive quality of an Amish barn-raising. ''I do it for the sensuality of it.''
 AROUND the San Francisco Bay area, arguably the hub of the garagiste movement, placid oak-lined streets are alive with the clicketyclack of hand-cranked wine presses, as home winemakers with a penchant for jazz and chevre sit on milk crates in their driveways, buckets at the ready to catch the torrential ''free run'' of flowing juice -- the wine equivalent of nirvana. Cars banished to curbsides, they speak of ''brix'' (sugar content), ''hot'' wine (too much alcohol) and ''mog'' (material other than grapes, like spider webs and bees, that gets mixed in during picking).
 Vacations are out, as internal clocks are reset to the rhythm of grapes. Weekends and wee hours are consumed with crushing, de-stemming, pressing, and racing -- particularly if, like Mr. Clark, you have your heart set on a certain row of petit verdot hanging provocatively in a grove of eucalyptus near Lodi, 75 miles away, and learn it is to be picked that day.
 Many garagistes fantasize about going pro. ''Home wines are some of the best wines in California,'' said Kent M. Rosenblum, a veterinarian turned vintner whose respected winery, Rosenblum Cellars, got started in his basement. ''They're also some of the worst wines in California.''
 Since the repeal of Prohibition, government rules permit households to make up to 200 gallons -- 1,000 bottles -- of wine a year. At Bissie and Jerry Miller's, six couples get together each harvest season to purchase a ton of grapes, which yields between nine and 11 cases for each family. Each couple's $500-a-year investment works out to about $5 a bottle.
 Their wine, which is pumped through a siphon hose from the garage to the basement, is also liquid memory. Their Wedding Ring wine of 1991, a pinot noir, commemorated the year that Bevan Vinton, a high school social studies teacher, lost her wedding ring in the crush (it was retrieved during pressing a week later in the ''cake'' of smashed skins and seeds). The Fire zinfandel was named for the Oakland Hills fire, during which the Millers temporarily fled their home, leaving the grapes behind in the garage.
 The Bay area's extreme garagistes ''know they can buy Two Buck Chuck,'' said Lisa Van de Water, a technical wine consultant and founder of the Wine Lab in Napa, which does scientific analyses for home winemakers and sells yeast nutrients and related products. ''They're trying to make really good wine, something that's theirs.''
 It helps to be a geek. Bonneau Dickson, 60, who has christened his home elixirs Chateau Bonneau, for instance, is a sanitary engineer who lives in Berkeley. ''Wine is an anaerobic process, like sludge digestion,'' he said, an observation not likely to be repeated in The Wine Spectator.
 The ceiling of his 700-square-foot third-floor walk-up is dented from an errant stopper blown off a vigorously fermenting chardonnay. His kitchen is a welter of calibrated cylinders, acidity kits and pH meters. His decor consists of 65 wine-filled carboys, six-gallon glass containers, which have subsumed nearly every inch of his apartment. His preoccupation, however, does wonders for his social life. ''As soon as I started making wine, I noticed I had more friends,'' he said.
 Stephen and Susan Abbanat, who, like Mr. Dickson, are members of the Contra Costa Wine Group, spend their leisure time developing math-laden spreadsheets to monitor the parts-per-million of potassium metasulfite and the like, spurred by the yeasty smell of wine fermenting in their Oakland basement. ''You start to build a taste for your own wine, and that's what you prefer,'' Mr. Abbanat said.
 ''There's a mystery to it, a random element,'' he said, turning philosophical as he drove home from a vineyard recently with 155 pounds of merlot grapes in his Lexus. ''Making things is a survival trait, part of our genetic code. It's a piece of ourselves we're trying to connect with.''
 Nevertheless, romance can fade with panic, spurred, say, by pernicious Brettanomyces, a spoilage yeast, or, in the Abbanats' case, ''Pepto-Bismol-colored bubbles coming off during fermentation that could have been a funky bacteria.'' Because he lives near wine country, Mr. Abbanat was able to drive a vial of the suspicious cabernet up to the Wine Lab in Napa, founded by Ms. Van de Water, who has earned the nickname ''the bad wine lady'' (everything was fine). Home winemakers, she noted, must function without microbiologists, state-of-the-art filtration systems and other resources available to commercial wineries. ''Their expectation that everything will turn out O.K. leads to a lot of ruined wine,'' she said.
 A big reason winemakers form groups, at least in California, is access to know-how and most important, good grapes. The grape glut, which peaked in 2000 with a staggering 90,000-plus tons of grapes, has opened up many once-exclusive vineyards to home winemakers, but many growers still regard them as the equivalent of telephone solicitors in the middle of dinner. ''It is difficult to convince a grower to sell 300 to 500 pounds of grapes,'' said Dave Lustig, 48, a Pasadena computer programmer and secretary of the Cellarmasters, who admits to having driven 23 hours nonstop from the Willamette Valley in Oregon with five tons of pinot noir in a rented Ryder truck. ''In a co-op you can buy a 1,000- or 2,000-pound quantity, so it's easier to be treated like a big boy than someone showing up with garbage pails and a cooler.''
 Mr. Clark and Mr. Masero said they have had great success obtaining grapes from stellar vineyards, first sampling commercial wines to decide on a growing region, then setting out on a field trip to meet growers. ''You say, 'Man, whatever you're doing to that mourvedre is so fine,' '' Mr. Clark said. ''You have to establish a rapport. It's about friendships. It also helps to pay cold hard cash.''
 His face was pure ecstasy one night recently as he sat with Mr. Masero at a TV table set up in front of his garage, drinking a 2003 mourvedre while a pink cascade of sangiovese emanated from the basket press. In Mr. Masero's ''annex,'' Big Bertha, a 110-gallon tank of petite sirah, was improving every day. ''It's pure gold,'' Mr. Clark said. ''You know they are going to give you pleasure for 15 years.''
 In Berkeley, Bonneau Dickson was euphoric, too, as he sat on his porch watching carbon dioxide bubbles percolate through the carboys' air locks. He keeps his windows open at night so he can hear them, the surround-sound of bubbles luring him to dreamland. ''They're nice at night,'' he said. ''They help me sleep. It's like a babbling brook.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LIQUID MEMORY -- Bonneau Dickson of Berkeley, Calif., is among a growing number of people making wine in their garages and apartments. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); WINERIES (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (75%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

PERSON: Patricia Leigh Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



664 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: China's Bank, In Transition, Raises Rates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
China's central bank raised official borrowing costs for the first time in nine years Thursday night, a step aimed at slowing breakneck economic growth and inflation but one that could risk social unrest if heavily indebted state companies respond by laying off more workers.
 Beijing also removed the ceiling on what banks could charge for loans, a measure that paradoxically could make more loans available to risky private enterprises and ultimately enhance China's long-term growth prospects and give its economy much greater stability.
 The two moves shift China further toward a Western-style financial system in which markets determine the allocation of credit, not government officials.
 The interest rate increase, a little more than a quarter of a percentage point, is not big enough by itself to change the direction of the Chinese economy. But it is widely expected by economists to be the first in a series of increases that could lift rates by as much as two percentage points in the coming year, which could seriously curtail economic growth. 
 That would damp demand for products offered by the United States and other countries rushing to take advantage of the Chinese market. But the effect on American consumers is likely to be quite small, as Chinese companies are expected to take the steps needed to keep prices low and maintain their exports.
 For Beijing, the interest rate increase is a historic embrace of free-market tools of economic management despite possible internal political repercussions, said Tao Dong, the China economist at Credit Suisse First Boston's office here.
 ''This probably will anger a lot of people, but I give the government high marks,'' he said. Indebted property developers and laid-off workers are likely to be among the angriest. 
 By seeking to control inflation with higher interest rates, Beijing may limit some profit opportunities for a long list of companies and countries involved in the roaring Chinese market -- from luxury automakers in Europe, to iron ore producers in Brazil and Australia, to oil exporters in the Middle East. 
 Higher interest rates could also cause some hiccups for American companies with large beachheads in China, like General Motors. Indeed, prices of oil, copper, cotton and other commodities declined Thursday, underscoring concerns among investors that demand is easing in China for many raw goods used in manufacturing, everything from clothes to washing machines.
 After concluding last spring that the economy was expanding at an unsustainable pace and fueling inflation, Chinese leaders initially chose mostly administrative methods to try to limit excessive growth, like the denial of approvals for construction projects. 
 But these methods have failed to rein in rising prices. Consumer goods, on average, cost 5.2 percent more last month than a year earlier despite price controls on many products. Price increases are running at nearly twice that pace for goods traded between companies, which are subject to fewer price controls.
 In making its move, the Peoples Bank of China, the central bank, raised the benchmark rates that the state-owned banking system offers for one-year loans and one-year deposits by a little more than a quarter of a percentage point: 27-hundredths of a percentage point, to be exact. The lending rate rose to 5.58 percent and the deposit rate climbed to 2.25 percent. 
 The Peoples Bank also ended years of regulations tightly limiting the maximum interest rates that banks could charge on loans. The limits, which the Peoples Bank started to loosen last December, had discouraged the country's banks, almost all state-owned, from taking the risk of lending to small and medium-size private companies. Similar businesses in other countries can attract loans by agreeing to pay higher rates of interest. 
 Most state-owned enterprises already have the political connections to borrow at no more than the benchmark rate, and sometimes pay an even lower rate. Raising the benchmark rate will hit them especially hard at a time when many of them are struggling to repay previous loans and avoid laying off workers. 
 In the United States, John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, praised the Chinese moves. ''It indicates to me they're moving more and more in the direction of more sophisticated market-based management of their economy, and I think that's a good thing,'' Mr. Snow said during a trip to Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
 But some analysts said they feared that the raise in rates was calculated to mute international demands that China revalue its currency. Washington has been pressing China to raise the value of its currency, which is pegged to the dollar, as a way to help reduce the United States' trade deficit with China and make American exports more competitive. 
 ''China's decision to raise interest rates by for the first time in nine years only delays a revaluation of its currency instead of making it more probable,'' said Ashraf Laidi, the chief currency analyst at MG Financial Group in New York.
 The Peoples Bank said in a statement that its moves were partly aimed at keeping money in the banking system. Economists at the International Monetary Fund and elsewhere have watched with concern in recent months the slowing growth of deposits at Chinese banks. 
 Affluent urban Chinese families in particular are turning away from depositing money in banks at the extremely low interest rates offered, choosing instead to lend money directly to struggling businesses at double-digit interest rates. 
 Steeply rising prices and low, government-mandated interest rates have prompted companies across China to borrow heavily over the last two years, feeding an extraordinary economic boom. The borrowers have erected forests of apartment buildings and many new factories, expecting that prices will go up fast enough to ease the cost of repaying the loans. 
 ''On the borrowing side, if the interest rate is 5.3 percent, then take as much as you can get, because the real rate is minus 4 percent,'' said Nicholas Lardy, a Chinese banking expert at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, in a telephone interview a few hours before the official announcement.
 Many of the most fashionable boulevards in China's urban centers are lined with new luxury apartment buildings with long rows of empty windows, because few buyers can afford them. Yet new apartment buildings continue to be built nearby, construction often proceeding around the clock, as is common in China. 
 Chinese leaders have expressed growing concern in recent months that many bank-financed projects cannot support themselves and will result in another wave of nonperforming loans at state banks.
 Economic data released last Friday showed that the tempo of economic growth in China barely slowed in the third quarter despite these measures, and suggested that the Chinese economy may have started to accelerate again in September as the effects of the initial controls began to wear off. 
 The frenzy has driven up prices of a wide range of commodities, from iron ore for the steel in building girders to copper for household plumbing, enriching many countries that export them.
 By raising the interest rate now but leaving the exchange rate unchanged, Beijing runs the risk that speculators will pour even more money into China -- possibly stoking inflation further -- in the hope that Beijing will eventually have to allow the currency to appreciate.
 Partly for that reason, the International Monetary Fund considers greater flexibility in the exchange rate a more urgent issue for China than an interest rate increase, Eswar Prasad, the I.M.F.'s China division director, said on Monday. 
 If China were to follow the I.M.F.'s recommendation, by either letting the yuan trade in a wider range against the dollar or fixing the yuan to more currencies than just the dollar, then the short-term effect may be appreciation of the yuan.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Companies in China have borrowed heavily recently, leading to an economic boom. The borrowers have erected luxury apartment buildings and factories. (Photo by Peter Parks/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C2)Graph: ''Playing the Price Game''Inflation for goods bought and sold by companies has been higher than the benchmark interest rate for one-year corporate loans, giving companies an incentive to borrow as much as possible in the hope of repaying loans with yuan devalued by inflation. The Peoples Bank of China raised the one-year lending rate on Thursday by 27-hundredths of a percentage point.Graph tracks the interest rates (one-year corporate lending rate) and inflation (Year-over-year change in prices for transactions between companies) since 1999.(Sources by CEIC Data
 Peoples Bank of China)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); EXPORT PRICES (86%); BANKING IN CHINA (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); AUTOMAKERS (61%) 

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China; China; China

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



665 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Matsushita's Profit Rises

BYLINE: By Todd Zaun (NYT)

 BODY:
The electronics manufacturer Matsushita Electric Industrial said net profit rose 14 percent from the year-earlier period, to 23.4 billion yen ($220 million), helped by strong sales of digital cameras and flat-panel televisions. Revenue at the company, which makes the Panasonic brand of products, rose 18 percent, to 2.217 trillion yen. The company warned that higher energy prices and an expected slowdown in the economy in the United States could hurt its results in the second half. Todd Zaun (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (88%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (88%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (84%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (84%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: PANASONIC CORP (75%)

ORGANIZATION: Matsushita Electric Industrial Co

TICKER: PC (NYSE) (75%); 6752 (TSE) (75%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (75%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (75%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (90%); ASIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



666 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing Connecticut: New Haven: Little Growth In State Jobs

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by George James

 BODY:
The state government gained only 25 jobs from 1998 to 2003, according to data compiled by the United States Census Bureau. The data reflects years of hiring freezes, job cuts and early retirements that the state offered in an attempt to reduce the budget because of recession and tax revenue shortfalls. The state is still its own largest employer, however. There were 70,779 full-time state jobs in Connecticut in 2003 -- several times more than the casinos, defense contractors, insurance companies or other major companies employ.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); CENSUS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (88%); BUDGETS (87%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BUDGET CUTS (85%); INSURANCE (84%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (83%) Politics and Government; Government Employees; Labor

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (66%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



667 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART IN REVIEW; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Kathy Butterly -- 'Fall Into Spring'

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:

Tibor de Nagy
724 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street
Manhattan
Through Nov. 27
 Kathy Butterly, whose small, extremely refined yet humorously grotesque, semiabstract sculptures of glazed clay are currently on view in the Carnegie International, is not the sort of artist who is ordinarily picked to be in major global art festivals. The beauty of her work is, in part, its resistance to the kinds of big-scale, conceptually portentous avant-gardism commonly favored by such events and its appeal to intimately personal pleasures, fantasies and anxieties. At any rate, Tibor de Nagy's exhibition is a good substitute for viewers who can't make it to Pittsburgh to see the 25 works from five years that constitute Ms. Butterly's contribution to the Carnegie.
 Never more than eight inches tall and made with awesome skill, Ms. Butterly's zany transformations of traditional cup and vase forms are inspired by traditional precedents including Asian and Victorian art, Arts and Crafts, George Orr and California Funk. Strings of tiny pearls, parts resembling moss or sponge and neatly constructed tiny pedestals play off sumptuously colored volumes that bulge and fold like human flesh. Beautiful, hideous and hilarious, Ms. Butterly's works metaphorically celebrate the erotic grossness of the body and the delirious pluralism of the mind. KEN JOHNSON




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FESTIVALS (76%) Art; Reviews

PERSON: Ken Johnson; Kathy Butterly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



668 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

China Raises Interest Rates And Eases Bank Controls
China's central bank raised official borrowing costs for the first time in nine years in a bid to slow economic growth. It also moved closer to a Western-style financial system by ending some controls on bank lending.
 The changes to bank regulation could ultimately enhance China's long-term growth prospects, but higher rates may limit profits for companies and countries involved in the Chinese market. They could also cause hiccups for American companies with major investments in China. [Page A1.]

Credit Suisse Considers Changes
Credit Suisse First Boston is undertaking a major strategic review that could lead to the dropping of the First Boston name and layoffs in parts of the investment bank, executives at the firm said. [C4.]

Viacom to Buy Back 13% of Stock
Viacom's profits grew 11.6 percent in the third quarter because of an increase in advertising at its cable and television networks. The company said it would buy back almost 13 percent of its stock, a decision that sent its shares surging by as much as 3 percent. Viacom earned $723 million, excluding charges from the spinoff of Blockbuster. [C6.]

Loss at Martha Stewart's Company
Martha Stewart's company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, said it lost money in the last quarter. [C4.]

O'Reilly Settles Harassment Suit
Bill O'Reilly, the Fox News Channel talk show host, agreed to settle a lawsuit brought against him by a Fox producer who said Mr. O'Reilly had sexually harassed her. [C6.]

More Suits Filed Against Spammers
Four Internet service providers filed a new round of lawsuits against senders of junk e-mail, or spam. The suits include the first filed by America Online against spammers using instant messaging. [C6.]

CNNfn to Close Next Month
CNN will shut its CNNfn cable channel next month, abandoning a nine-year effort to compete with CNBC. [C8.]

Cancer Treatment Effective in Trial
Dendreon, the developer of a so-called cancer vaccine, announced that it extended the lives of men with advanced prostate cancer in a clinical trial. [C8.]

Halliburton Contract Under Scrutiny
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking into the Army's handling of a large contract with Halliburton and whether it violated procurement rules, according to lawyers for an Army official who complained about it. [A8.]

Ad-Free, but Not Promotion-Free
''Control Freak,'' a video show on MTV2, will run without commercials for three episodes -- if one disregards the six-minute segment starring Buddy Lee, the Lee Jeans character. The sponsored segments are the first foray into branded entertainment by Lee and MTV2. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

Earnings Decline at Tribune
The Tribune Company said operating profit fell 18 percent in the third quarter and that circulation dropped at The Los Angeles Times, partly because of changes in the way circulation is counted. [C6.]

Profits Increase at Verizon
Verizon said profits in the third quarter grew meagerly as rising costs offset income from Internet and wireless services. [C8.]

Stocks Advance as Oil Prices Fall
Another drop in oil prices helped stocks extend their rally to a third day. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.51 points, to 10,004.54. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.04 points, to 1,127.44, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 5.75 points, to 1,975.74. [C8.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,004.54 up 2.51Nasdaq composite -- 1,975.74 up 5.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.05% down 0.04The euro -- $1.2745 up 0.0040The dollar -- 106.21 yen down 0.30Graph tracks the share price of Viacom since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMAIL MARKETING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (70%); LAWYERS (70%); INSTANT MESSAGING (68%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%); ONCOLOGY (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%); CANCER DRUGS (66%); CANCER (66%); ARMIES (64%); PROSTATE DISEASE (64%); MEN'S HEALTH (61%); PROSTATE CANCER (61%); CLINICAL TRIALS (61%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (56%); VACCINES (50%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); VIACOM INC (56%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (55%); AOL INC (53%); DENDREON CORP (52%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); MSO (NYSE) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); DNDN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (69%); MARTHA STEWART (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



669 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Video of Iraqi Explosives Shifts Focus of Dispute
Newly discovered video taken nine days after the fall of Baghdad shows a huge supply of explosives, some of which appear to have been sealed by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The subject has become a heated dispute on the campaign trail, with Senator John Kerry accusing the president of incompetence. A1

An estimated 100,000 civilians have died in Iraq as a direct or indirect consequence of the March 2003 United States-led invasion, according to a new study by a research team at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore. A8

One militant group said in an Internet message that it had killed 11 Iraqi security officers it was holding hostage, while another released a video showing it had kidnapped a Polish woman who was a longtime resident of Iraq. A8

Arafat on Way to Paris Hospital
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, left the West Bank on a trip to Paris for treatment of a two-week-old ailment that has seriously weakened him and plunged Palestinian politics into turmoil. A1

Kidnappings in Afghanistan
Gunmen abducted three foreign election workers on a busy street in Kabul. The kidnappings raised fears that militant groups might have borrowed a favored tactic of insurgents in Iraq. A10

New Charges Against Cleric
Indonesian prosecutors opened a new trial against an Islamic cleric, Abu Bakar Bashir, charging him in connection with the suicide bombing of the Marriott Hotel in Jakarta in 2003 and the bombings of two nightclubs in Bali in 2002. A7

NATIONAL A12-22

Sharp Surge in Early Votes Is Altering the Campaign
State election officials around the country say there has been a surge in early voting this year, with people lining up in numbers so large that some analysts predict that one-fifth of presidential ballots will be cast before Nov. 2. A1

Senator John Edwards is going home to North Carolina to cast a ballot and attend a rally in his honor. A19

Senator John Kerry and President Bush focused on the qualities of leadership, with Mr. Kerry calling the president incompetent and oblivious to his mistakes and Mr. Bush lampooning his rival as ''the wrong man for the wrong job at the wrong time.'' A19

Nader Vows to Stay Course
Ralph Nader vowed that he would stay in the presidential race to the end and lashed out at a ''two-party electoral dictatorship'' in the United States. A22

I.R.S. Investigates N.A.A.C.P.
The Internal Revenue Service has begun reviewing the tax-exempt status of the N.A.A.C.P., citing concerns over a speech by its chairman, Julian Bond, at its annual convention in July. Mr. Bond called the inquiry an attempt to silence the group. A12

WEEKENDE1-32;E33-42

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Far and Near to Get Flu Shots
Thousands of Americans are going to great lengths to be vaccinated, though federal health officials have urged people not to panic in the face of one of the worst shortages in the history of the vaccine program. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

State Audit Says M.T.A. Has Failed to Trim Fat
A report by Alan G. Hevesi, the New York State comptroller, says the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which is preparing to raise fares and cut service, has done little to trim fat from its central office. A1

S.U.V. Plows Into Mourners
An S.U.V. skidded on its side down a sidewalk in Chinatown and plowed into a group of churchgoers gathered outside for a funeral mass. Four women were struck, and one was seriously injured. B1

Woman Found Dead in S.U.V.
The decomposing body of a homicide victim was found beaten and shot in her locked sport utility vehicle in Queens, and her 2-year-old daughter was dehydrated and in critical condition after two days or more in the vehicle, the authorities said. B1

City Opera Plans New House
The New York City Opera is negotiating to build a new opera house near Lincoln Center, opera officials confirmed. B1

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES C11

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The return of the ''butterfly ballot''; into the wild blue yesteryear; marriage and politics; unearthing the tiniest humans.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

China Raises Lending Rates
China's central bank raised official borrowing costs for the first time in nine years in a bid to slow breakneck economic growth. It also moved closer to a Western-style financial system by ending some controls on bank lending. A1

Shell Warns of Reductions
The Royal Dutch/Shell Group warned that 6 percent of its proven reserves were under review and could be reclassified. C1

German Carmakers Hurting
DaimlerChrysler and Volkswagen both reported mixed earnings, as economic and labor conditions in Germany continued to be a drag on the automakers' profits. C1

Temporary Layoffs at G.M.
General Motors said it would temporarily lay off more than 10,000 workers for one to four weeks early next year at five plants that mostly produce sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. C4

Tough Call for Delta Pilots
Pilots for Delta Air Lines, by far the best-paid in the airline industry, must accept a tentative deal that calls for a one-third cut in pay or risk losing their jobs. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

Crossword E42
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E32
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); BALLOTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); RELIGION (65%); TAX LAW (62%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (62%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); RALPH NADER (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (75%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); INDONESIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



670 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Citing Speech, I.R.S. Decides To Review N.A.A.C.P.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
The Internal Revenue Service has begun reviewing the tax-exempt status of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, citing concerns over a speech given by its chairman, Julian Bond, at its annual convention last July in Philadelphia.
 In a letter dated Oct. 8 and released Thursday, the I.R.S. told the association it had received information that Mr. Bond conveyed ''statements in opposition of George W. Bush for the office of presidency'' and specifically that he had ''condemned the administration policies of George W. Bush in education, the economy and the war in Iraq.'' 
 The letter reminded the association that tax-exempt organizations are legally barred from supporting or opposing any candidate for elective office.
 Mr. Bond's speech on July 11 included a long section that sharply criticized the Republican Party, Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney for their positions on an array of issues important to black Americans.
 In an interview Thursday, Mr. Bond defended his remarks, saying they focused on policy, not politics.
 ''This is an attempt to silence the N.A.A.C.P. on the very eve of a presidential election,'' he said. ''We are best known for registering and turning out large numbers of African-American voters. Clearly, someone in the I.R.S. doesn't want that to happen.''
 He added, ''It's Orwellian to believe that criticism of the president is not allowed or that the president is somehow immune from criticism.''
 I.R.S. officials said they could not discuss the specifics of any case. But Mark W. Everson, the agency's commissioner, issued a statement denying that the agency's interest in the group was politically motivated.
 ''The I.R.S. follows strict procedures involving the selection of tax-exempt organizations for audit and resolution of any complaints about such groups,'' Mr. Everson said. ''Career civil servants, not political appointees, make these decisions in a fair, impartial manner. Any suggestion that the I.R.S. has tilted its audit activities for political purposes is repugnant and groundless.''
 The N.A.A.C.P. is hardly the first organization to raise questions about I.R.S. actions around an election. In the 1990's, so many organizations accused the I.R.S. of engaging in politically motivated examinations that the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation reviewed all examination data for tax-exempt organizations between 1990 and 1998. It found ''no credible evidence'' of wrongdoing by the agency or the Clinton administration.
 Mr. Bond, who has been chairman of the N.A.A.C.P. for six years, said he knew of no other time the I.R.S. had challenged the 95-year-old association's tax status on political grounds.
 Mr. Bond said that the association had a chilly relationship with Mr. Bush, who declined to speak at its last four annual conventions, and that black voters were worried that the problems that kept thousands of them from voting in 2000 could recur this year in Florida and elsewhere.
 With association officials now immersed in efforts to register new voters and to make sure early voting proceeds smoothly, he said the I.R.S. request was placing new financial and personnel demands on the group. 
 The I.R.S. has asked it to provide a written response that includes detailed financial information about its 2004 convention, personal information about its 64 board members and relevant information about Mr. Bond's speech.
 ''Of course, we're concerned,'' Mr. Bond said. ''I feel we'll be vindicated in the end because we have not violated any I.R.S. rules or regulations. But this takes a great deal of effort and money to defend and could take up to two years to resolve.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EVIDENCE (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (91%) National Assn for the Advancement of Colored People; Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MARK W EVERSON (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Michael Janofsky; Julian Bond; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



671 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Big Insurer Denies Any Ties to Plan To Attack Spitzer

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
With Eliot Spitzer pounding the insurance industry, American International Group, the world's largest insurer, needs all the good press it can get.
 Instead the company faces a new mini-controversy to go with Mr. Spitzer's investigation into bid rigging and price fixing among insurers and insurance brokers. 
 A Washington agency that represents public speakers sent e-mail messages to four financial industry experts on Monday, offering them fees of at least $25,000 if they would attack Mr. Spitzer and defend the insurance industry. Two weeks ago, two A.I.G. executives pleaded guilty to criminal involvement in what Mr. Spitzer described as a widespread conspiracy to cheat customers. 
 In its e-mail message, Leading Authorities, the speakers' bureau, said it was making the offer on behalf of American International. ''We have had an inquiry from A.I.G. for assistance in getting the insurance industry's side of the story out to the public,'' wrote Mark French, the president of Leading Authorities.
 Yesterday, Mr. French and a spokesman for A.I.G. said the e-mail was incorrect. A.I.G. did not know of the offer, they said.
 Mr. French said he had sent out the e-mail at the behest of Qorvis Communications, a Washington public relations firm that until Monday worked for A.I.G. Qorvis hoped to identify possible insurance industry supporters, Mr. French said. ''We had simply responded to their request for potential people,'' he said. ''We never spoke with A.I.G., and I've had no communication with them.''
 Joe Norton, a spokesman for American International, said A.I.G. had not and would not offer to pay supposedly independent experts to attack Mr. Spitzer.
 ''We were completely unaware of the letter or the arrangements before they were brought to our attention this afternoon and we would have never tolerated them,'' Mr. Norton said last night.
 Don Goldberg, a managing director at Qorvis, also said the offer had been made without the knowledge of A.I.G.
 ''We asked Leading Authorities as well as others for lists of names,'' Mr. Goldberg said.
 ''We never offered to pay anybody anything; we never did pay anybody anything. A.I.G. was never aware of this, never authorized a payment to anybody, and it never progressed beyond the fact that Leading Authorities passed on a list of names.''
 Mr. Goldberg said that Qorvis never planned to pay anyone for defending A.I.G.
 American International Group fired Qorvis on Monday, but not because of the letter, Mr. Norton said. Mr. Goldberg confirmed that A.I.G. had terminated Qorvis. Both Mr. Norton and Mr. Goldberg said the termination was not related to the letter.
 Offering people money to write opinion pieces or appear on television is not unusual, Mr. French said. The person taking the fee is responsible for deciding whether to disclose the payment, he said.
 But Lynn Turner, who is the former chief accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission and one of the four people who received the e-mail message, said the offer had shocked him.
 ''I think it's unethical and offensive to pay someone to be a front for you in the media,'' Mr. Turner said. ''For me that would be especially true, as I believe Spitzer has a very reasonable basis for what he's doing.''
 Besides Mr. Turner, the e-mail message was sent to Laura Unger, a former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission; Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, associate dean of the Yale School of Management; and Kevin Hassett, director of economic policies at the American Enterprise Institute.
 Two of the recipients never responded, one said he was not interested, and the fourth asked for more information, Mr. French said.
 Darren Dopp, a spokesman for Mr. Spitzer, sharply criticized the e-mail message. ''It's one thing to convince people on the merits,'' Mr. Dopp said. ''It's another thing to pay people to pose as objective commentators. It's manipulative, dishonest and wrong.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (95%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); PRICE FIXING (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (70%) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Leading Authorities (Orgn); American International Group; Qorvis Communications

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Lynn E Turner; Laura Unger; Jeffrey A Sonnenfeld; Kevin Hassett; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



672 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ELECTIONS OFFICIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: For New Florida Vote Chief, Some Precount Butterflies

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
The woman in the puffy pink gown waving a wand and a ''Glenda the Bad Witch'' sign at a rally last week was but one reminder: Glenda E. Hood, Florida's secretary of state, is not winning many popularity contests these days. 
 As Florida's chief elections officer, Ms. Hood, 54, has been under constant attack in this emotionally intense campaign season. The successor to Katherine Harris, whom Republicans glorified and Democrats vilified when she presided over the recount in 2000, Ms. Hood is the subject of frequent lawsuits and more than a few tart protest chants. Democrats and some nonpartisan groups have accused her of working single-mindedly to ensure that President Bush, her boss's brother, wins the utmost of battleground states. 
 Last spring, Ms. Hood, a former high school cheerleader and well-liked mayor of Orlando, dismissed concerns that a list of suspected felons might be flawed, and she tried to keep the list from being distributed. People convicted of felonies cannot vote in Florida, and the list was meant to help strike illegal voters from the rolls.
 Ms. Hood scrapped the list in July, after a judge ordered her to release it. Her decision came after newspapers found that the list included thousands of blacks, who lean Democratic, but just 61 Hispanics, who tend to vote Republican in Florida.
 In September, Ms. Hood joined Ralph Nader in appealing a circuit court decision to keep him off the Florida ballot. Her office said that it had no position on Mr. Nader's candidacy and that it was only protesting the standard that the court set for how minor-party candidates got on the ballot. But critics said that entering the legal battle made Ms. Hood look as if she were taking sides, as Mr. Nader's candidacy is generally seen as hurting Senator John Kerry.
 Other complaints about Ms. Hood include her recent decision to reject newly registered voters who did not check a box on the form indicating they were American citizens, even though they certified on another part of the form that they were, and her issuance of a rule banning manual recounts on electronic voting machines. That rule was later thrown out by the courts. 
 Ms. Hood's famous predecessor, Ms. Harris, was elected to the job. But in 1998, Florida voters approved a constitutional amendment giving the governor authority to appoint secretaries of state starting in 2003.
 Critics say that after the deeply polarizing recount, Gov. Jeb Bush should have picked a nonpartisan elections expert for the job. Instead he appointed Ms. Hood, a politically ambitious Republican who was among the state's 25 electors for George W. Bush four years ago.
 ''If you were going to create the worst process to administer elections on a statewide basis it would be something along this line,'' said Ion Sancho, the longtime elections supervisor in Leon County, Fla., and a blunt critic of the system. ''It is a recipe for no trust from the beginning.''
 By most accounts, Ms. Hood was a consensus-building mayor whose enthusiasm and people skills won accolades. She went from being president of Orlando's Junior League to being a city councilwoman, and then, at 42, the mayor. She won three mayoral elections, drawing praise for her moderate views, strong work ethic and habit of reaching out to different constituencies, including minority groups. 
 ''She had a reputation of working across party lines,'' said Aubrey Jewett, a political science professor at the University of Central Florida who has followed Ms. Hood's career. 
 Ms. Hood dismisses the charges of partisanship as, well, partisan. 
 In an interview at the Orange County Supervisor of Elections office, where she voted on Friday, she said her only goal was to uphold state and federal election law. 
 ''There's always going to be people out there trying to destroy the voter confidence that people have worked so hard to build,'' she said, repeating a line she has uttered dozens of times this year. ''I operate in a nonpartisan environment, and all the supervisors of elections operate in the same way.''
 She has worked more closely with the supervisors than Ms. Harris did, several said, visiting them often and drilling them about elections practice. After the four hurricanes that battered Florida in August and September, she spent a lot of time in the worst-hit counties, helping them relocate polling places and move forward. 
 ''She seems very dedicated to it and has gotten an excellent grasp,'' said Pat Hollarn, the elections supervisor in Okaloosa County, in the Panhandle.
 Like Ms. Harris, Ms. Hood is a fourth-generation Floridian whose forebears raised cattle and citrus. She spent most of her life in Orlando, which she still gushes about, before moving to Tallahassee last year.
 She stays on message, offering stock answers in response to the inevitable questions about whether Election Day will go smoothly in Florida (Yes, but ''as long as human beings are involved there are going to be bumps in the road.'') and what she thinks of the criticism (''The nature of the elections business invites litigation.'').
 She ventured a bit more about one critic, former President Jimmy Carter, who wrote witheringly about Florida's electoral system in The Washington Post last month, saying that Ms. Hood showed ''the same strong bias'' that Ms. Harris did in 2000. 
 ''How disappointing,'' she said. She added that the op-ed article contained errors, but she did not elaborate. Ms. Hood said she had tried to invite Mr. Carter to come learn about changes in Florida's elections system since 2000, but to no avail.
 Ms. Hood said she met Jeb Bush when he was the state commerce department secretary and she was president of the Florida League of Cities in the 1980's. They later worked on economic development together, and after the 2001 terrorist attacks, Mr. Bush appointed Ms. Hood to lead a panel that advised him on state security issues.
 After Mr. Bush became governor in 1998, Ms. Hood was a candidate for lieutenant governor. But she took herself out of the running, she said, because she was still raising three children and enjoying her job as mayor of Orlando. She helped oversee fund-raising for the governor's re-election campaign in 2002 and served on a team recommending goals for his second term. 
 After winning a third term as mayor in 2000, Ms. Hood began to appear restless, Professor Jewett said. She drew criticism for frequently giving speeches and attending conventions out of town, which many saw as efforts to raise her profile. 
 Professor Jewett said he thought most of Ms. Hood's decisions were driven not by partisanship but ''what she thinks is right.'' But her decision to join Mr. Nader's legal battle here was troubling, he said, as was the creation on her watch of a purge list that erroneously excluded likely Republicans. 
 ''The best you could say is that it was bad bureaucratic mismanagement,'' he said of the list. ''That was something they just really fumbled.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenda E. Hood, Florida's secretary of state, on Friday in Orlando with her completed ballot. Like her predecessor, she has been under fire. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); FELONIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BALLOTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); APPEALS (73%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (71%); JUDGES (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); APPROVALS (66%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%) Elections; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000; Suits and Litigation; Voting Requirements and Voters

PERSON: RALPH NADER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Glenda E (Sec) Hood; Katherine (Repr) Harris; Abby Goodnough; Jeb (Gov) Bush; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Florida; Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004



673 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Threat to Close Emergency Airfield in Pacific Upsets Airlines

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is threatening to shut an airfield at Midway Atoll in the mid-Pacific that has been available as an emergency landing site for decades. The airlines say the closing would force many two-engine planes flying between North America and Asia to make a long detour to hug the coastline of Alaska and the Russian far east, and could force some flight cancellations.
 Three- and four-engine planes are not required to stay within a certain range of emergency fields. But safety experts say that these planes will still face increased risk in flying the mid-Pacific route, because they will be farther from land in case of fire, system failure or passenger illness, which are the main reasons for emergency landings. 
 The airlines are furious. ''It seems like the government has just lost sight of the importance of Midway,'' said Gene Cameron, the manager of flight dispatching at United Airlines. Dispatchers plan aircraft routes based on prevailing winds and, especially in flights over water, availability of alternate landing spots.
 But the Transportation Department, which has paid $3.5 million to the Interior Department to keep the airfield open for the last few months, is determined to stop. ''There is no other airport available to commercial interests that we pay to operate,'' said Brian Turmail, a Transportation Department spokesman.
 Midway was a naval base until 1993, and for several years after that its operation was financed by a private company that brought in visitors for ''eco-tourism.'' When that venture failed, the Interior Department, which controls the atoll, said it would stop paying to operate the airfield. The Transportation Department began picking up the costs in late 2002 but does not want to bear the long-term obligation. 
 On Friday, the Transportation Department said that it would pay about $300,000 to keep the field open until Nov. 20 and that it would meet with the airlines to discuss the field's economic and safety significance. Along with the airlines, which are in financial distress, a possible contributor is Boeing, which met some of Midway's costs in the 1990's. Boeing specializes in two-engine aircraft, while its rival Airbus concentrates on four-engine models.
 Midway is 2,800 miles west of San Francisco, 2,200 miles east of Japan and about 150 miles east of the international date line. Planes bound to Asia from North America usually fly near the Aleutians and the Russian far east because of prevailing winds, but tend to return on a more southerly route. 
 Mr. Cameron of United Airlines said he calculated that a Boeing 777 that had to return on the northerly route instead would take nearly 90 minutes longer to reach the west coast of the United States and burn nearly $4,000 more fuel. 
 Continental Airlines plans to begin service on Dec. 15 from Nagoya, Japan, to Honolulu in a Boeing 767, a twin-engine plane. But without Midway available, it will probably drop the route, said Rahsaan Johnson, a Continental spokesman. Under rules for twin-engine planes, the 767 would have to follow a circuitous route to stay within range of Micronesia, he said, and the airline would have to leave seats or cargo holds empty so it could carry enough fuel. ''We'd be flying a plane full of fuel,'' he said. 
 A Boeing 777 flown by Continental made an unscheduled stop in Midway in January because of an engine problem. Northwest and American would also be affected. 
 Another possible site for diversions is Wake Island, but it is more than 1,100 miles away. In a recent letter to the Office of Management and Budget, two Democrats in the Senate, Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii and Patty Murray of Washington, complained that this was ''longer than the distance between Washington, D.C., and Miami.'' The Wake airfield is unavailable at night while lighting repairs are completed; airline officials do not expect to be able to use it before the end of the year.
 The amount of money at stake at Midway is under dispute. The Transportation Department said the cost would run to about $6 million a year. The airlines say that data they received from the Interior Department puts the cost of the airfield at about $1 million when separated from other costs on the island, which is a national wildlife refuge and includes a memorial to the Americans who died in the historic naval engagement there in 1942. The airfield has a simple radio navigation beacon and runway lights, but no tower.
 Duane Woerth, the president of the Air Line Pilots Association, put the cost at $600,000 a year. ''I'm really ripped about this ridiculous loss of safety,'' he said. ''This is an inherently governmental function. They keep trying to outsource this inherently governmental responsibility.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Emergency Airstrips in the Pacific''More than 60 aircraft have made emergency landings at seven airstrips in the Pacific since the early 1980's. The Bush administration is considering closing the airstrip on Midway Atoll, where planes have made landings at least seven times since 1981.(Source by Boeing)Map of the world highlighting seven airstrips (Shemya Island, Adak Island, Cold Bay, King Salmon, Wake Island, Kwajalein Atoll, Midway Atoll) in the Pacific Ocean.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR SERVICE (78%); BUDGETS (71%); NAVIES (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Accidents and Safety; Shutdowns (Institutional); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Airlines and Airplanes; Finances

COMPANY: BOEING CO (85%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Transportation Department (US); Interior Department (US)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDWAY ISLAND (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ASIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); WAKE ISLAND (79%) Midway Islands; Pacific Ocean; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



674 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: BIG ARCTIC PERILS SEEN IN WARMING

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
A comprehensive four-year study of warming in the Arctic shows that heat-trapping gases from tailpipes and smokestacks around the world are contributing to profound environmental changes, including sharp retreats of glaciers and sea ice, thawing of permafrost and shifts in the weather, the oceans and the atmosphere.
 The study, commissioned by eight nations with Arctic territory, including the United States, says the changes are likely to harm native communities, wildlife and economic activity but also to offer some benefits, like longer growing seasons. The report is due to be released on Nov. 9, but portions were provided yesterday to The New York Times by European participants in the project.
 While Arctic warming has been going on for decades and has been studied before, this is the first thorough assessment of the causes and consequences of the trend. 
 It was conducted by nearly 300 scientists, as well as elders from the native communities in the region, after representatives of the eight nations met in October 2000 in Barrow, Alaska, amid a growing sense of urgency about the effects of global warming on the Arctic. 
 The findings support the broad but politically controversial scientific consensus that global warming is caused mainly by rising atmospheric concentrations of heat-trapping greenhouse gases, and that the Arctic is the first region to feel its effects. While the report is advisory and carries no legal weight, it is likely to increase pressure on the Bush administration, which has acknowledged a possible human role in global warming but says the science is still too murky to justify mandatory reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions.
 The State Department, which has reviewed the report, declined to comment on it yesterday.
 The report says that ''while some historical changes in climate have resulted from natural causes and variations, the strength of the trends and the patterns of change that have emerged in recent decades indicate that human influences, resulting primarily from increased emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, have now become the dominant factor.''
 The Arctic ''is now experiencing some of the most rapid and severe climate change on Earth,'' the report says, adding, ''Over the next 100 years, climate change is expected to accelerate, contributing to major physical, ecological, social and economic changes, many of which have already begun.''
 Scientists have long expected the Arctic to warm more rapidly than other regions, partly because as snow and ice melt, the loss of bright reflective surfaces causes the exposed land and water to absorb more of the sun's energy. Also, warming tends to build more rapidly at the surface in the Arctic because colder air from the upper atmosphere does not mix with the surface air as readily as at lower latitudes, scientists say.
 The report says the effects of warming may be heightened by other factors, including overfishing, rising populations, rising levels of ultraviolet radiation from the depleted ozone layer (a condition at both poles). ''The sum of these factors threatens to overwhelm the adaptive capacity of some Arctic populations and ecosystems,'' it says. 
 Prompt efforts to curb greenhouse-gas emissions could slow the pace of change, allowing communities and wildlife to adapt, the report says. But it also stresses that further warming and melting are unavoidable, given the century-long buildup of the gases, mainly carbon dioxide. 
 Several of the Europeans who provided parts of the report said they had done so because the Bush administration had delayed publication until after the presidential election, partly because of the political contentiousness of global warming.
 But Gunnar Palsson of Iceland, chairman of the Arctic Council, the international body that commissioned the study, said yesterday that there was ''no truth to the contention that any of the member states of the Arctic Council pushed the release of the report back into November.'' Besides the United States, the members are Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russia and Sweden.
 Mr. Palsson said all the countries had agreed to delay the release, originally scheduled for September, because of conflicts with another international meeting in Iceland. 
 The American scientist directing the assessment, Dr. Robert W. Corell, an oceanographer and senior fellow of the American Meteorological Society, said the timing was set during diplomatic discussions that did not involve the scientists. 
 He said he could not yet comment on the specific findings, but noted that the signals from the Arctic have global significance.
 ''The major message is that climate change is here and now in the Arctic,'' he said. 
 The report is a profusely illustrated window on a region in remarkable flux, incorporating reams of scientific data as well as observations by elders from native communities around the Arctic Circle. 
 The potential benefits of the changes include projected growth in marine fish stocks and improved prospects for agriculture and timber harvests in some regions, as well as expanded access to Arctic waters.
 But the list of potential harms is far longer. 
 The retreat of sea ice, the report says, ''is very likely to have devastating consequences for polar bears, ice-living seals and local people for whom these animals are a primary food source.''
 Oil and gas deposits on land are likely to be harder to extract as tundra thaws, limiting the frozen season when drilling convoys can traverse the otherwise spongy ground, the report says. Alaska has already seen the ''tundra travel'' season on the North Slope shrink to 100 days from about 200 days a year in 1970. 
 The report concludes that the consequences of the fast-paced Arctic warming will be global. In particular, the accelerated melting of Greenland's two-mile-high sheets of ice will cause sea levels to rise around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); TRENDS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (74%); OZONE DEPLETION (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); POPULATION GROWTH (56%) Weather; Global Warming; Forests and Forestry; Fish and Other Marine Life; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Agriculture; Logging Industry; Ice; Weather

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) ARCTIC (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Arctic Regions

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



675 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Future of Air Travel: Cheap Is In, Frills Are Out
No longer aspiring to be luxury liners, planes are now subways of the sky. Airlines like United and American still promote the full-service approach to flying, but the airline carrying the most passengers within the United States is Southwest, a discount carrier.
 The transformation in the industry is rewarding companies like Southwest and JetBlue that are thinking up new ways to meet their customers' needs with few frills and low fares on popular routes. [Page A1.]

United Airlines will most likely terminate its employee pension plans and replace them with less-expensive retirement benefits, its chief financial officer said in an interview. [C3.]

Delta Air Lines is Atlanta's largest private employer, so the city is watching closely as the airline teeters on the edge of bankruptcy. [C3.]

A High-Tech Merger in France
Sagem, a French maker of electronic equipment, and Snecma, a state-controlled manufacturer of aircraft engines, announced a merger plan that would create a company worth more than $9 billion. Some analysts said the merger was driven by political interests. But Gregoire Olivier, above, Sagem's chief executive, said it made business sense. [C2.]

Questions for Ovitz in Disney Case
Michael S. Ovitz, the former president of Disney, described an aborted attempt to join the Sony Corporation and was grilled about whether Disney board members were informed about his performance. [C4.]

Lehman Settlement in Enron Suit
Lehman Brothers will pay $222.5 million to settle a class-action lawsuit contending that it and other brokerage firms and banks helped Enron mislead investors. [C2.]

China's Move Is Taken in Stride
Most Asian financial markets reacted with surprising calm to the Chinese central bank's announcement of its first increase in interest rates in nine years. [C2.]

Japan's central bank said consumer prices would turn slightly higher in 2005, heralding a possible end to a period of deflation. [C2.]

NTT DoCoMo Reports Profit Drop
NTT DoCoMo, Japan's top provider of mobile phone service, said its profit fell 6 percent for the most recent six-month period from a year earlier. Its rivals have moved more quickly to cut prices and offer faster data services. [C2.]

Oil Helps Stocks End Week Higher
Blue-chip stocks ended higher, helped by gains in energy companies. The major indexes rose for the week, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 2.8 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index and the S.&P. 500-stock index each rising 3.1 percent. [C4.]

EBay Is Asked to Police Artifacts
The British Museum has asked eBay to stop the sale of ancient artifacts dug up by Britons who failed to report their discoveries as required by law. [B7.]

U.S. Asks Merck for Added Data
The Food and Drug Administration told Merck that it needed further data before it would approve the drug Arcoxia, a successor to the pain reliever Vioxx. [C3.]

Aon Withdraws Earnings Forecast
Aon's stock fell 5.6 percent after it withdrew its earnings forecast because of slow sales and the loss of contingency commissions, which it halted last week amid an investigation by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general. [C12.]

ChevronTexaco Profits Rise 62%
ChevronTexaco said its third-quarter profit rose 62 percent, to $3.2 billion, as a result of rising oil prices. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,027.47 up 22.93Nasdaq composite -- 1,974.99 down 0.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.02% down 0.03The euro -- $1.2791 up 0.0046The dollar -- 105.86 yen down 0.35Graph tracks the daily closing of Standard & Poor's 500 since January.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); MERGERS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); CRUISES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DEFLATION (68%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (67%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); LITIGATION (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NTT DOCOMO INC (83%); SONY CORP (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ETUDE & DE CONSTRUCTION DE MOTEURS D'AVIATION (SNECMA) (69%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

TICKER: NDCM (LSE) (83%); DCM (NYSE) (83%); 9437 (TSE) (83%); SON (LSE) (83%); SNE (NYSE) (83%); 6758 (TSE) (83%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



676 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Heads of State Sign the European Union's First Constitution

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: ROME, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
Twenty-five European leaders returned to the European Union's founding home here on Friday to sign the union's first constitutional treaty, hailing it as the next important step for integration.
 ''The seeming madness of our founding fathers has become a splendid reality, to which a fundamental chapter is being added,'' said Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy.
 However, the celebration surrounding the signing has been overshadowed by an unexpected crisis -- the withdrawal this week of the new 24-member European Commission because of a standoff between the European Parliament and the incoming commission president. The tension has left the union without its new executive branch and has plunged it into uncertainty. 
 The signing on Friday was largely ceremonial because national parliaments still must ratify the treaty. And 10 or more of the union's 25 countries are scheduling the sterner test of national referendums.
 With Europeans becoming more outspokenly skeptical about closer political integration, the national votes look as if they will become a vote of confidence in the union itself, and there is a strong possibility the new Constitution could be rejected in at least one country. In that sense, the signing signals the opening of a battle by national leaders to win over voters on the Continent.
 ''Today, Europe enters a new era,'' said Jan Peter Balkenende, the Dutch prime minister who now holds the union presidency, as leaders gathered on the Campidoglio in the ancient center of Rome.
 Heads of state and government, including Tony Blair of Britain, Gerhard Schroder of Germany and Jacques Chirac of France, signed the treaty in the same hall where nearly 50 years ago six nations -- France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg -- established the European Community.
 The treaty, which consolidates past European Union treaties into a single document, is meant to help the union function more effectively as it struggles to cope with enlargement to 25 countries and to overtake the United States as the world's largest economy.
 If ratified, the treaty will alter the European Union's voting system, removing national vetoes from some policy areas, like immigration, and will remove the requirement for unanimous votes to decide most issues, easing the threat of gridlock. It will also change the weighting of votes, to give bigger countries in the union more say than smaller ones.
 The treaty also gives the union a single president, appointed for two and a half years, replacing the current system where the presidency revolves every six months. The union will also have a new foreign minister. Both changes are intended to give the union a stronger, unified voice on the world stage. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); VETO (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (60%) Constitutions; Treaties; Legislatures and Parliaments; Elections; Referendums; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%) European Commission; European Parliament

PERSON: JAN PETER BALKENENDE (56%); TONY BLAIR (56%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%); JACQUES CHIRAC (54%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) Graham Bowley

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (99%); ITALY (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BENELUX (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Europe; European Union; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



677 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

All Together Now: A Constitution for 25 Nations in Europe
Leaders of the 25 members of the European Union met in Rome yesterday to sign the union's first constitutional treaty. During a break, five of the leaders gathered for a chat: from left, Jacques Chirac of France, Tony Blair of Britain, Gerhard Schroder of Germany, Guy Verhofstadt of Belgium and Pedro Santana Lopes of Portugal. PAGE A3

Growth Rate of Economy Edged Higher Over Summer
The economy expanded at a 3.7 percent annual rate from July through September. The growth in the nation's output of goods and services, according to the Commerce Department's initial estimate, exceeded the 3.3 percent rate registered in the second quarter, when the economy was held back by energy prices.
 But despite the improvement, some analysts expressed worries over the economy's vulnerabilities. Growth could be crimped by continued high oil prices, lackluster income gains and the deepening trade and balance of payments deficits. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

9/11 Measure Stalled for Now
The negotiators seeking to break a stalemate over legislation to overhaul the nation's intelligence agencies gave up trying to reach an agreement before Election Day, but they said they were confident the work could be completed before Congress adjourns for the year. PAGE A11

Calling All Principals
New York City's ambitious effort to recruit 40 experienced principals from across the country has fallen spectacularly short. The recruitment effort, part of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's overhaul of the city's schools, yielded a modest number of new principals: One. PAGE B1

Arafat in French Hospital With a Puzzling Ailment
Yasir Arafat arrived in France as the guest of the French government and was immediately taken to a military hospital for treatment of a mysterious ailment. A Palestinian representative said it would be several days before doctors could finish their examinations and give a diagnosis.
 In Washington, a Bush administration official said it appeared that Mr. Arafat's doctors were in some disagreement over the Palestinian leader's condition. PAGE A6

Concern Over Troops' Armor
Families of Americans serving with the National Guard and Reserves in Iraq have gone so far as helping to provide some of the armor for vehicles there. Families, officials and other observers disagree on the severity of the problem. PAGE A8

Troop Tours in Iraq Extended
The Pentagon has ordered about 6,500 soldiers in Iraq to extend their tours, some by as long as two months. It is the first step the military has taken to increase its combat power there in preparation for the January elections. PAGE A8


CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption on Saturday about a signing ceremony in Rome for Europe's first constitutional treaty reversed the identities of two of the five leaders shown. Guy Verhofstadt of Belgium was at the right, and Pedro Santana Lopes of Portugal next to him.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Vincenzo Pinto/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (86%); ARMED FORCES (86%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (56%); TONY BLAIR (56%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (90%); PORTUGAL (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



678 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: Survival of Fittest and Leanest Becomes Strategy for the Airlines

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
After half a decade of turmoil, a picture of air travel in the United States is starting to emerge, and it is far different from the caring image the airlines like to present. 
 In an artsy television commercial for United Airlines, for example, a cosseting flight attendant gives an excited traveler water for a rose he is taking home to mom, while in American Airlines' advertising landscape, travelers are flying for happy reunions. After all, the airline declares, ''We know why you fly.''
 In truth, Americans fly because it is cheap and often the fastest way to travel as planes have become not luxury liners but subways of the sky. 
 ''This is the way the world is going,'' said Robert F. Tumminaro, a manager at an auto parts company in suburban Chicago, who checked himself in at a Southwest Airlines kiosk at Midway Airport recently, bypassing a skycap and carrying his own rolling suitcase and computer bag. 
 Just four years ago, he said, he would have taken United, where he had accumulated thousands of frequent-flier miles. Fed up with United's high fares and numerous delays out of the nearby O'Hare International Airport, Mr. Tumminaro said, ''I flipped my United card back at them'' and switched to Southwest.
 Planes, many of them fully packed, are set to carry more than 600 million passengers this year, masking the fact that the big airlines are in a financial free fall, having lost $30 billion since 2000, with expectations of losing another $5 billion this year and next. 
 The airline carrying the most passengers within the United States is now Southwest, according to the Transportation Department, far outstripping its roots as a regional carrier from Texas. The growth of Southwest illustrates why fares keep dropping, pushing 3 of the industry's top 10 airlines into bankruptcy.
 The average transcontinental trip, which set travelers back more than $400 each way four years ago, now costs closer to $200, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an industry consulting firm.
 All this has sent the big airlines scrambling to devise strategies that will keep them in business, a process of creative destruction that is akin to the chaos that afflicted the telecommunications industry in the 1990's. While no one expects airline seats to be sold like minutes in a telephone plan -- at least not yet -- it is clear that the full-service approach that United and American would still like their customers to think is the norm is fast vanishing from the American scene.
 ''The traditional structure of being a one-stop shop for all the travel needs of your customers is not going to be the future at all,'' said Jagdish Sheth, professor of marketing and corporate strategy at Emory University in Atlanta.
 The upheaval is the climax of a process that began with deregulation in 1978, and that has accelerated this decade because of a business slump, the September 2001 attacks, the onslaught of low-fare competition and high fuel prices. And like the transformation of Ma Bell, the status quo has been flipped on its head in the airline industry with upstarts like Southwest and JetBlue leading the way.
 At Midway Airport and at Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Southwest has installed its self-service kiosks, which print baggage claim tags, along with the usual boarding passes and credit card receipts. As a result, one customer service agent can oversee two check-in stations, said Virginia Bona, Southwest's assistant station manager at Midway.
 What is good for the passengers may not be good for workers. Elnora P. Hamb, 64, who sat watching customers using the kiosks at Midway recently, said, ''I think it's putting people out of jobs.''
 Mrs. Hamb, national president of the Women's Missionary Council of the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church, like millions of other American consumers, is avidly participating in that process anyway. Instead of calling airline reservation lines, she said she regularly goes on the Internet to shop for cheap tickets, bent on saving travel costs for her church. 
 Most often, she said, she flies on a low-fare airline like Southwest, which lets her amend her itineraries at little or no cost, thus avoiding the fees charged by the big carriers for last-minute changes.
 The transformation in the industry is rewarding companies like Southwest and JetBlue that are thinking up new ways to meet their customers' needs with few frills and low fares on popular routes. But that model is hardly the global industry's leanest. 
 An even more extreme model is Ryanair, serving Europe from its base in Ireland. Ryanair charges minuscule ticket prices and makes passengers pay for everything else, from checking bags to drinks and food. It has ordered new planes without window shades, magazine pockets and reclining seats.
 Nothing quite that drastic is planned by airlines serving the United States, but the trend for basic travel is already clear. 
 Though the big airlines still pay lip service to the idea of competing with the low-fare companies, in truth they are casting a desperate eye on the last corners of the market where they can still charge top prices for tickets, namely flights where passengers still want first class seats.
 That approach is being followed by American, Delta, Northwest and United, which said recently that they would cut domestic service and expand international flights, including the first service to Vietnam by an American carrier in three decades.
 ''We want to focus our efforts on those markets,'' said John P. Tague, an executive vice president at United. ''There is a very strong residual demand for that kind of product. We are confident it's going to work.''
 At the same time, United has introduced what it calls p.s., for premium service, on flights between New York and California, which features seats that turn into beds, gourmet food and the kind of style that brings back visions of the glory days.
 A new survey by the Brookings Institution suggests that many customers may simply not care about the opportunity for luxury flights. The survey measured each of the major airlines according to the value that it provided passengers, in terms of low fares and the number of cities served.
 Far and away, the study found, the most value was provided by Southwest, distantly followed by United and Delta. American, Continental and US Airways actually provided negative value. That indicated customers felt ''getting rid of them would be good'' because their absence would allow better airlines to take up the slack, said Clifford Winston, a Brookings economist.
 The survey leads him to believe that in the industry's next phase airlines will have to be efficient. Otherwise, ''they will pay for it in not being able to survive,'' Mr. Winston said.
 Getting there, however, is proving existentially painful. 
 Shrinking has become a way of life for the big airlines, which cut 110,000 jobs after the September 2001 attacks and have even more cuts on the way. 
 American, Delta, United and US Airways all have announced plans to eliminate jobs of pilots, mechanics, flight attendants and customer service agents. Most are taking planes out of their fleets and at the same time, sharply cutting benefits like vacation time, post-retirement health care and pensions that have added billions to their costs.
 ''The harsh reality is that our world has permanently changed, and we must change with it,'' Delta's chief executive, Gerald A. Grinstein, told employees in September. 
 Southwest is not immune either. About 1,100 workers took an early retirement plan this summer. And the airline filled its last two flight attendant classes from its own ranks including some of the gate agents who once worked at Midway, Ms. Bona said.
 But the cuts are coming from a position of strength. Even as the major airlines cut back, the healthiest low-fare carriers are expanding their route systems and ordering hundreds of new aircraft. Granted, they are not completely immune from the problems buffeting the industry.
 ATA Airlines, a low-fare airline based in Indianapolis, filed for bankruptcy protection this week, after its aggressive expansion plans were stymied by high fuel costs. And JetBlue disappointed analysts in the third quarter, when its earnings fell, prompting Standard & Poor's Ratings Services to assign a negative outlook, meaning its debt rating could be cut if it cannot make improvements. 
 But JetBlue still made money and like Southwest, it is striving to be efficient. Southwest now employs just 75 employees per aircraft, compared with more than 100 at each of the major companies, and only slightly more than the 70 employees per aircraft at JetBlue, whose workers are not represented by unions.
 ''The companies are doing their downsizing and the workers and unions are being left behind,'' said Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass.
 Whether entire airlines will be left behind is a matter of intense debate in airline circles. 
 Given the intense pressure from high jet fuel prices and stiff competition from low-fare companies, some say it is inevitable that old names will disappear -- a prospect that US Airways raised repeatedly this fall, as it successfully pleaded with a federal bankruptcy court judge to grant emergency pay cuts.
 Others point out just how hard it is to kill an airline. Vanished names like Eastern, Pan Am and T.W.A. floundered for years in the 1980's and 1990's before finally going under. And even as US Airways, Delta and United are mired in bankruptcy or close to it, new carriers like Virgin America are poised to move into the American market, assuming they can find financial backing and win regulatory approval. 
 Moreover, JetBlue and Southwest are each buying additional planes. JetBlue, which started in 2000 with a single New York to Florida route, now serves more than 30 cities, and expects to add dozens more over the next few years as it adds hundreds of Airbuses and regional jets to its fleet.
 What is evolving may end up being better for the country and certainly will be for passengers, said Herbert D. Kelleher, the chairman at Southwest. ''I don't see it as dark and foreboding and bleak,'' Mr. Kelleher said in a recent interview. ''Every time we go through one of these harrowing experiences, the industry has endured, it has survived and it has successfully provided what I consider to be an essential service for the American public and American business.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Feeling the Heat of Competition''Low-fare airlines have been expanding to cities and routes once served only by the major carriers, and now carry nearly a quarter of all domestic passengers. This has given more fliers on the big six a choice of low-fare airlines
for example, nearly 40 percent of United's passengers can opt instead for a flight on Southwest.Graph tracks number of domestic passengers on full-service airlines and low-fare airlines from 1987 to 2003.Percent of major airlines' passengers who can choose to fly on low-fare carriers.*UNITEDSOUTHWEST: 38.3%AMERICANSOUTHWEST: 34.4%CONTINENTALSOUTHWEST: 33.8%NORTHWESTSOUTHWEST: 18.2%US AIRWAYSAIRTRAN: 27.2%DELTAAIRTRAN: 25.9%Graph also shows percentages for America West, JetBlue, ATA, Frontier and Spirit.*Figures as of first quarter 2004.(Sources by Back Aviation Solutions
 darinlee.net)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); LAYOFFS (88%); HIJACKING (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); CRUISES (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TELEPHONE RATES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TERRORISM (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Industry Profiles; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Profits (Industry-wide); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Terrorism; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Finances

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Southwest Airlines

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



679 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; MARATHON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2236 words

HEADLINE: Lessons of Endurance

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: MAMMOTH LAKES, Calif. 

 BODY:
The boy grew up without electricity or running water. He was a runner only in the sense that he and his family became refugees from one of Africa's longest wars of the 20th century, eventually moving to the United States. He had never heard of the Olympics, so he could not have dreamed of winning a silver medal in the marathon, as he did in Athens.
 At age 10, Meb Keflezighi (pronounced ka-FLEZ-gee) moved to Italy from war-torn Eritrea in East Africa. For half his life he had not seen his father. Russom Keflezighi had supported Eritrean rebels in their protracted and bloody attempt to win independence from Ethiopia. Fearing for his safety, Russom walked 150 miles across Eritrea to the border of neighboring Sudan, then worked his way to Milan.
 After five years of custodial work, he sent for his family. It was in Italy that young Meb Keflezighi first encountered the astonishment of television, which would one day transmit his Olympic success to the world. 
 ''How could that guy fit in there?'' he recalled asking himself, wondering how a human form could be compressed into such a magical box.
 Keflezighi recounted the story here recently over lunch, facing a bank of televisions in a restaurant after a crisp morning run amid glassy lakes and towering pines in the High Sierra. On Nov. 7, only 70 days after his Olympic performance, he hopes to become the first American since 1982 to win the New York City Marathon.
 The trip to Italy began a journey that would deposit the Keflezighi family in San Diego in 1987 and would become a remarkable immigrant story of faith, risk, expectation and perseverance, words that string together like charms in a bracelet of family success.
 The Keflezighis arrived in the United States speaking no English, teased for their pay-less clothing, but determined to triumph at what once seemed unimaginable opportunity.
 The father cleaned floors in various banks and drove a taxi so his children could concentrate on their education instead of work. Fitsum, the eldest son, became an electrical engineer. Aklilu, the second son, got his M.B.A. Meb, the third son, received a degree in business communications from U.C.L.A. and won four national collegiate running titles. Bahghi, a younger sister, is in medical school. Merhawi, a younger brother, is in law school. Bemnet, yet another brother, is studying economics.
 Four younger siblings remain at home, all planning on college, all given names that translate to ''peace'' and ''hope'' and ''best'' and ''astonished them'' in anticipation and celebration of Eritrea's independence, gained in 1993 after three decades of struggle.
 ''It's the most extraordinary family I've ever met,'' said Dr. Steven Van Camp, a San Diego cardiologist who has been a mentor to Meb.
 Keflezighi, who is 29, was not expected to win a medal in Athens, not by anyone outside of his family and friends and training group, anyway. Thirty-eight runners, a third of the marathon field, had previously run 26.2 miles in a faster time than his personal best of 2 hours 10 minutes 3 seconds. But Keflezighi trained exquisitely for the hills and heat of Athens, and only Stefano Baldini of Italy, the gold medalist, could match his patience and resolve on the undulating Olympic course.
 Baldini won by 34 seconds in 2:10:55, but Keflezighi appeared fresher at the finish, as if he could have kept on running into the darkness of a Sunday evening. His father wept back in California. Once again, many had counted out the Keflezighis, but they had not counted out themselves.
 Over lunch here, Meb opened his day planner to Aug. 29, the date of the Athens race, and read the entry: ''Olympic marathon goal top three.''
 Fitsum Keflezighi, speaking by telephone from San Jose, Calif., said of his brother's Olympic medal: ''That was the icing on the cake; it highlighted our family achievement. The ultimate thing my parents said was, 'Whatever you put your mind to, work hard and it is going to pay off.'''

A Risky New Beginning
 The date is seared as if by a brand into Russom Keflezighi's memory: July 1, 1981, the day he left his family. He had once owned a grocery store in Asmara, the Eritrean capital, but by 1975 the city had grown unsafe for him, and he moved about 60 miles away to the village of Adi Beyani.
 He said he was a member of the Eritrean Liberation Front, which later gave way to another group, the Eritrean Peoples' Liberation Front. These forces sought independence from Ethiopia, whose former emperor, Haile Selassie, had annexed Eritrea in 1962. By the mid-1970's, Ethiopia was being run by a brutal Marxist military regime, one whose soldiers had threatened Russom Keflezighi, he said.
 At night, he sometimes hid in the forest outside his village to escape the Ethiopians, a desperate concealing that his oldest sons Fitsum and Aklilu would later emulate to avoid conscription into the Ethiopian army. ''How long you stay like this?'' his wife, Awetash, asked Russom, imploring him to leave Eritrea.
 But she was pregnant. Russom did not want to go. Still, she tried to persuade him. ''I have food and oxen I can sell,'' she told her husband. If he left, he could send money home. She trusted that he would not abandon his family. If he stayed in Eritrea and was captured, what good would that do? How could she get him out of prison? What if he were killed?
 So, on July 1, 1981, Russom Keflezighi left his wife and five children, feeling both hopeless and determined, crossing rocky terrain on foot, often hiding during the day and walking at night, avoiding lions and wolves and Ethiopian soldiers, carrying cooked wheat and water, straining the flow of muddy streams through his shirt when his drinking supply ran out, walking for a week to the Sudanese border.
 He continued to Khartoum, Sudan's capital, found a job as a storekeeper in a hotel, then made his way to Italy, a former colonial ruler of Eritrea. Russom, who spoke Italian fluently, cleaned offices and residences in Milan. Meanwhile, Meb's mother moved her children closer to the Eritrean capital to facilitate their education, not wanting her children to remain shepherds forever.
 By 1986, the Keflezighi family was reunited, given assistance by Letenkiel Tewelde, a woman whom Russom calls his first wife and with whom he had a daughter named Ruth. Russom met his family first in Greece, where Meb would later have a triumphant moment, and took them to Italy.
 On Oct. 21, 1987, the Keflezighis immigrated to the United States, settling in San Diego, sponsored by Meb's half sister Ruth. From the beginning, Russom Keflezighi stressed education. As a boy, he had worked as a shepherd and had not started school until he was 16, completing just six grades. His children would have it better. Money might come and go, but education could not be taken away, Russom told them.
 ''It will make you free from poorness, from stupidness,'' he said to them. ''It is like prepared food. Come and eat.''
 He and his partners cleaned as many as eight banks a night, he said. He would come home late and wake his oldest sons at 3:30 in the morning to help them with their English. In three months, Russom said, his eldest son, Fitsum, had surpassed him, and by the end of the 1987-88 school year, Fitsum had been named outstanding ninth grader at San Diego's Roosevelt Junior High.
 ''It was the family's first trophy,'' Meb Keflezighi said.

Immersed in Running
 The next school year, as a seventh grader, Meb participated in a gym class contest that awarded a T-shirt to anyone who ran a mile in under 6:15. Meb ran it in 5:20.
 ''Got me an A,'' he said with a burst of his machine-gun laugh.
 Other kids began speaking to him instead of avoiding him, he said. Later, adults began to take notice of his running skills at San Diego High. One was Van Camp, the cardiologist, who had two daughters on the track team. He became an adviser to Keflezighi. On Sundays, Keflezighi would visit the family, and Van Camp's wife, Gail, would tutor him in English, review his homework and help him prepare for his SAT exam.
 Van Camp, a former quarter-miler in college, took Keflezighi to a library to find the autobiography of the miler Jim Ryun. He found a magazine article about Abebe Bikila, the great Ethiopian marathon champion, and spoke to Keflezighi about Kip Keino, the middle-distance star from Kenya. Sometimes Keflezighi mowed the Van Camps' lawn in gratitude. It was another lesson his father had taught him: Surround yourself with good people and you will do good things.
 Keflezighi became an A student, and, his senior year at San Diego High, he finished second in the national schoolboy cross-country championships. U.C.L.A. seldom offered scholarships to distance runners, preferring sprinters and throwers who could score more reliably as freshmen at the N.C.A.A. championships. But Bob Larsen, U.C.L.A.'s coach at the time, felt a particular connection to Keflezighi. He had grown up in Minnesota, also without running water and electricity.
 ''I talked with his family and saw how hard-working they were,'' said Larsen, who is now retired from U.C.L.A. and coaches Keflezighi and others here as part of a national distance-running program. ''Meb was a good student. His father had walked across Eritrea to Sudan. These were tough people. I offered him a scholarship.''
 As a collegian, Keflezighi won national titles in cross country, 5,000 meters and 10,000 meters. In 1997, he applied for United States citizenship, uncertain whether his native Eritrea would participate in the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney. His citizenship was granted on July 2, 1998, and two years later, he competed for the United States in the Sydney Olympics, finishing 12th at 10,000 meters, or 6.2 miles, while suffering flulike symptoms.
 Sometimes his parents worried that running made him too skinny at 5 feet 7, 127 pounds, but he laughed and told them that his opponents from Ethiopia and Kenya were even slimmer.
 In 2001, Larsen persuaded Keflezighi to begin training at the 7,550-foot altitude of Mammoth Lakes to increase his oxygen-carrying capacity. Shortly after his first training regimen here, Keflezighi set the American record of 27:13.98 at 10,000 meters.
 He made his marathon debut in New York in 2002, gaining the lead at 18 miles. But he made a familiar mistake among inexperienced runners, accelerating prematurely up First Avenue, drawn by the treacherous siren song of the crowds. His body became depleted, and he faded to ninth while running the final miles slower than he had in junior high, finishing in 2:12:35, a half-minute short of the qualifying time for the 2004 Olympics in Athens.
 ''I went for it,'' Keflezighi told reporters. ''I do not regret it. Live and learn.''
 Van Camp remembered a more deflated response in private from Keflezighi: ''You've just seen my first and last marathon.''
 Keflezighi reconsidered and ran 2:10:03 at the 2003 Chicago Marathon, then finished second at the 2004 Olympic trials. Still, few expected a medal from Keflezighi in Athens. He had done little on the international scene, and his body had been susceptible to injury. Five days before the Olympic marathon, tendinitis flared in his knee, and he briefly considered dropping out to preserve a payday in New York in the fall.
 ''Don't jeopardize your career here,'' he told himself.
 But the pain subsided, and Keflezighi entered the Olympic race superbly prepared. He and a workout partner, Deena Kastor, had trained for the heat in Athens by wearing long sleeves and long pants at altitude in Mammoth Lakes. Keflezighi had even spent up to 20 minutes at a time in a sauna.

The Athens Surprise
 Their coaches had also found a training route above 7,000 feet that simulated the rolling terrain and long uphill climb of Athens. When Kastor won bronze in the women's marathon, Keflezighi believed that a medal also was within his grasp.
 ''So many people can train well, but it was the details he paid attention to that made the difference,'' Kastor said.
 Keflezighi ran patiently on the 10-mile uphill portion of the Olympic course as other contenders fell away, then, with a few miles remaining, spoke to Baldini in Italian: ''Let's go get 1-2.''
 Not until after the race, Keflezighi said, did he learn that someone had pushed the leader and eventual bronze medalist, Vanderlei de Lima of Brazil, from the course near the 22-mile mark. When Baldini made his move at 24 miles, Keflezighi did not go with him, fearing he might blow up as he had done two years earlier in New York.
 ''I was very content,'' Keflezighi said. ''I could get a silver or bronze or jeopardize everything, and I wasn't willing to do that.''
 The Keflezighi family had gathered in northern California, and facing a delayed broadcast on television, called a friend in New York to get a play-by-play account over the telephone. A silver medal secured, the first marathon medal for an American man since 1976, Russom Keflezighi ended his prayers and said that his son was brave like a lion.
 Meb Keflezighi has come to equate the silver medal with his diploma from U.C.L.A., something tangible that can never be taken away, drawing as always on the language of education drilled into him by his father.
 ''My philosophy is, if you win nationals, it's like having a masters in education,'' he said. ''If you make the Olympic team, it's like a Ph.D. If you win a medal, you have done something extraordinary, like a Nobel Prize.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Meb Keflezighi, who came to the United States after his family fled the civil strife of Eritrea, overcame initial reluctance about the marathon to win the Olympic silver medal. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. D1)
Above, Meb Keflezighi training with members of Team Running USA. Left, Keflezighi cooled in a stream after a workout with Bob Larsen, a team coach and his coach at U.C.L.A. Right, finishing his silver-medal effort in Athens. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laurent Rebours/Associated Press)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); MARATHONS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (84%); IMMIGRATION (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); CHILDREN (74%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Running; New York City Marathon; Marathon Running

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%)

PERSON: Jere Longman; Mebrahtom Keflezighi

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); ERITREA (94%); AFRICA (93%); ITALY (88%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SUDAN (79%) New York City; Eritrea

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



680 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Giving Flamenco Song a Global Accent

BYLINE: By ERIC MARX

DATELINE: BARCELONA 

 BODY:
In the late hours of a cool August evening, Ojos de Brujo (Wizard Eyes) takes the stage overlooking the cordoned-off streets of this city's Gracia district. Playing in front of its hometown fans, this eight-member group blasts a spirited mix of highly syncopated flamenco rhythms, hip-hop backbeats, Afro-Cuban rumba and turntable scratches that speak to Barcelona's multiethnic culture of new ideas and new sounds.
 Like the wailing flamenco music from which the band draws its core inspiration, Ojos's lyrics bleed with outrage at an uncaring world riddled with injustice. 
 ''The backpack we carry is loaded full of rocks, it comes from the abyss, this bad condition,'' the lead singer Marina Abad, known as La Canillas (''the shins''), raps in ''Ventilator R-80,'' only to break into a euphoric call to rejoice in rumba and the traditional flamenco rhythm buleria.
 While flamenco fusion has existed for more than 20 years -- melding salsa, jazz, reggae and rock-- few bands have tried to incorporate as many competing rhythms onto a single soundstage. Ojos de Brujo fuses everything from North African and Indian drumbeats to punk, heavy metal and funk, arguing through expert musicianship for a new flamenco hybrid, heedless of categories. 
 The crowd erupts in dance and precision hand-clapping, the music reflecting the cultural fusion in their lives, the words giving voice to their frustration. It's a giant party, another huge turnout, and yet this benefit for the city's squatters offers hardly any remuneration for the band, which Xavi Turull, its founding percussionist and manager, said had to cut its own path through an inhospitable marketplace and a flamenco establishment fearful of marginalization.
 ''We don't mind if music loses its identity because we believe, in reality, music has never had a real identity but has always been evolving,'' Mr. Turull said. He likened flamenco's evolution to that of American blues and its flowering into rhythm and blues, rock 'n' roll and soul.
 Ojos de Brujo also has its share of American fans. Since the release of the band's latest album, ''Bari'' (World Village), in May, it has managed to sell 20,000 CD's in the United States. The album was briefly in the Top 10 on Billboard's World Music Chart, and remained in the top 15 through mid-August on the C.M.J. (College Music Journal) World Music Chart. This success is a result of college radio stations' playing Ojos's music and the band's performances at a few well-chosen American concerts: over the summer it played at Central Park SummerStage in New York, and it recently made several appearances in Los Angeles. It will return to California for a performance at a music awards ceremony at Vault 350 in Long Beach on Nov. 24 and a concert at the Brava Theater Center in San Francisco on Nov. 28. 
 Mr. Turell says that traditional music, roots music, can maintain its essence through fusion if the resulting hybrid is the work of musicians who understand and live the music from which they borrow.
 ''We're using flamenco, but together with other music, making it more rich,'' he said, ''and through evolution you probably lose a little bit, but on the other side, you always keep the feeling or, what some would say, the rhythm.''
 Mr. Turull is an important figure on the flamenco scene, having fused flamenco with Indian music and Latin rhythms in Amalgama, a groundbreaking fusion band of the 1980's. Ms. Abad hails from a feminist-inspired performance art background but grew up in Valencia, jamming with flamenquillos (flamenco lovers), who taught her the rhythms. DJ Panko, another band member, was a bass player in a group that mixed pop with flamenco. And the guitarist Ramon Gimenez, the only Gypsy in the band, has discovered everything from hip-hop to funk and soul but says his roots lie with the more traditional flamenco that he grew up playing with his family.
 Still, for flamenco purists, the music is defined by the performer's ethnic origin -- Andalucian Gypsy -- and is fixed in its styles, only mutating with the inclusion of new instruments, and only when they are introduced by Gypsies. 
 The problem, says Rafael Manjavacas Lara, publisher of the respected flamenco Web site deflamenco.com, is that to the uninitiated, Ojos's music is flamenco. 
 ''Good fusion/bad fusion is too subjective a topic to pronounce upon, except to say it can be judged as any other music,'' he said. ''This is unlike flamenco, which cannot be judged simply as 'music,' since it values certain qualities above others: rhythm over voice, feeling over technique. To do flamenco, you must live it and have the background, either learned or acquired at home. Fusion simply requires being a good musician. This is why so many foreign musicians embrace and enjoy fusion, but foreigners don't really do flamenco, except in rare cases.''
 A positive outcome of fusion is the attraction of new people to traditional flamenco music, but that just isn't happening, Mr. Manjavacas Lara added. 
 ''This is the bankrupt logic of the fusion people,'' he said. ''In 40 years' experience, I have never seen anyone pass from fusion or other derivatives to flamenco, always the reverse, and almost always for economic as opposed to artistic reasons.''
 Indeed, while more new music is being created today, most traditional forms are disappearing, said Timothy D. Taylor, the ethnomusicologist and author of ''Global Pop: World Music, World Markets.'' But that doesn't fundamentally debilitate flamenco as a meaningful cultural form, he said, even if vast numbers of consumers think of it as world music.
 ''Some artists have sought to keep their music 'pure,' but whatever the 'pure' is thought to be is always changing,'' Mr. Taylor explained. ''It's an endless process, endlessly discussed and argued with by musicians. Some countries are establishing Western-style music conservatories to preserve traditional musics, which I think is generally a mistake, since it freezes music instead of letting it continue to change, as all traditional musics have always done.''
 What is new, he argued, is the intensity and pace of that evolution and the degree to which ''commodification,'' as he calls it, separates the sound from the maker -- repackaging it in the form of pop and dance samples, television advertising music or film soundtracks.
 Still, world music is thriving, said Ian Anderson, editor of fRoots magazine (formerly Folk Roots), pointing to bands like Ojos. Their tendency to sell out major concert halls puts them in the same league as any major English-speaking band on an independent label, he said.
 ''The most exciting music around these days is made by people who understand their own roots but are experimenting in pushing their music onward, adding bits that work, or finding out that some things don't work and disregarding them,'' Mr. Anderson said. For those bands, he added, there's a huge, diverse audience waiting to be tapped.
 Mr. Turull said it was possible to engage the music industry and not compromise your principles. He said that Ojos had declined alcoholic beverage and cigarette endorsement deals that would have resulted in its music's being played at bull fights and soccer stadiums and that it had refused to perform at Barcelona's yearlong Forum 2004 cultural exchange conference because the band members objected to corporate real estate developers' efforts to use the event as a pretext for gentrification. 
 Consequently, Ojos finds itself still struggling to pay back the investors that helped the band produce and market ''Bari,'' even though the album has sold more than 150,000 copies -- a phenomenal accomplishment for a band without a major- or independent-label contract.
 Touring with an eight-piece band is expensive, Mr. Turull explained; when the videographer, flamenco dancers, backup singers and road crew are all counted, the operation is hardly a money-making enterprise.
 Sure, it would be easier to accept sponsors, he said, but then the band would not be keeping its commitment to the music and its fans.
 ''It's not so easy to be independent and alternative,'' grumbled Mr. Turull, who, with the other members in the band, performed at the August benefit because of the group's affiliation with the city's squatters.
 But it is possible to create your own pathway, he said. It just might take a little longer.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marina Abad leading Ojos de Brujo (Wizard Eyes), from Barcelona, at Central Park SummerStage in July. (Photo by Jack Vartoogian/Frontrowphotos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (76%); RAP MUSIC (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); RANKINGS (60%) Music

PERSON: Ojos De Brujo (Music Group); Eric Marx

GEOGRAPHIC: CATALONIA, SPAIN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



681 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: A Museum In Chicago Is Closing Its Doors

BYLINE: By DAVID BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The Terra Museum of American Art will close permanently on Halloween, leaving only the ghosts of Edward Hopper and Winslow Homer, among others, to haunt one of this city's most ambitious if underappreciated art institutions. 
 Last year, the trustees of the Terra Foundation for the Arts, which runs the museum (and another in Giverny, France), decided to close its foundering institution here and place its entire collection of 350 works on paper, plus 50 of its most important paintings by American masters, with the Art Institute of Chicago on 15-year loan. 
 The Art Institute will show the Terra holdings, including treasures like ''Gallery of the Louvre'' by Samuel F.B. Morse and George Caleb Bingham's ''Jolly Flatboatmen,'' beginning in April. 
 The Terra Museum's failure to draw crowds even after effectively eliminating its admission charge a few years ago led to the decision to close. But in its final days, throngs of 11th-hour art lovers have descended upon the narrow building in the Magnificent Mile shopping district on Michigan Avenue to say good-bye to the art collection, which was assembled over 50 years by Daniel J. Terra, a chemicals magnate, who died in 1996. 
 Uri Toch, 46, a librarian from Skokie, Ill., and his wife, Susan Kaplan-Toch, 45, also a librarian, took time off from work the other day to visit the trove of Whistlers, Cassatts and Copleys displayed in one of its farewell exhibitions, ''A Narrative of American Art.'' As regular visitors, the couple lamented the loss of the small institution. 
 ''This museum has meant a lot to us,'' Mr. Toch said, somberly. ''We had to come this week.'' Ms. Kaplan-Toch added: ''I'm heartbroken, I'm really sad. Daniel Terra would be turning in his grave. This is really scandalous.'' 
 But most Chicagoans, including members of the city's art establishment, have greeted the closing with a collective shrug, even though it leaves the city with only two major art museums: the Art Institute and the Museum of Contemporary Art. 
 ''We're all more or less guilty for not supporting it,'' said Thomas McCormick, a Chicago-based art dealer. ''But by next week, will anybody really notice that it's gone?''
 Marshall Field V, chairman and president of the Terra Foundation for the Arts, acknowledged that public indifference had made the trustees' decision last year an easier one. The sprawling, encyclopedic Art Institute attracts more than 1.3 million visitors each year. By comparison, the Terra Museum, located within a mile of the Art Institute, draws only about 85,000. 
 ''I didn't feel that the vast majority of Chicago really gave a damn one way or another,'' he said. ''What Dan chose to collect -- and actually, I do, too -- was in a field that didn't particularly resonate with people.''
 Mr. Terra, a son of Italian immigrants who made a fortune in printing inks and photographic chemicals, at first collected Impressionist landscapes by European artists. But he soon turned his attention to American art, concentrating on American Impressionism and the Hudson River School. 
 He amassed a collection of some 700 paintings, prints, drawings, sculptures and photographs estimated to be worth $175 million today, though not all were regarded as first rate, and founded the museum in 1980 in a former flower shop in Evanston, Ill. He grabbed the attention of the art world in 1982 when he bought Morse's ''Gallery of the Louvre'' for $3.25 million, at the time a record for an American painting.
 Five years later he relocated the museum to an office building on Michigan Avenue, awkwardly set between a shoe store and a specialty popcorn shop. With only 8,000 square feet available for galleries, the museum lacked the space needed to become a major presence. There was no auditorium, restaurant or cafe, and no parking lot. Its small storefront gift shop, which doubled as the main entrance, confusing passersby. 
 In 1992, Mr. Terra opened the Musee d'Art Americain in Giverny, France, the colorful village to which budding American Impressionists made pilgrimages to commune with Claude Monet, as throngs do today to see the Monet home and gardens. 
 Before his death, at 85, the collector had discussed placing his collection at the Art Institute, Mr. Field said. But he added that Mr. Terra ''wanted his own name on Michigan Avenue,'' and ''he didn't care what it cost or what the economics were.'' 
 A few years ago, the Terra Museum was shaken by a lengthy legal battle after two former trustees sued to keep the museum and its foundation, which has an endowment of $220 million, in Chicago. They asserted that Judith Terra, Mr. Terra's second wife, planned to move the collection to Washington, where she lives.
 A settlement reached in 2001 required the foundation to remain in the state for 50 years and the art collection to stay in the Chicago area, though it allowed the museum to move from its current location. Another provision of the agreement called for replacing all of the foundation's board members, including Ms. Terra. 
 ''The museum fund simply didn't have enough money to support two museums -- and maybe not even one,'' Mr. Field said. ''We were just eating ourselves alive, so within six or seven years, if we had gone the way we were going, we'd have been out of business and there'd be nothing.'' 
 Soon the foundation's entire collection will be available on a new Web site (www.terraamericanart.org), said Elizabeth Glassman, director of the museum, who will remain with the foundation, along with nine other museum employees. 
 More important, she said, closing the struggling museum will free up about $4 million a year from foundation's assets, enabling it to expand its research, educational and fellowship programs in Chicago and internationally. The foundation has already announced a joint exhibition next year in Paris, at the Louvre, and additional programs for its museum in Giverny. 
 The move, Mr. Field said, will ensure greater visibility for the collection, which the foundation could never achieve on its own. ''Unless you've got the Mona Lisa and that's your painting in your small museum, it just doesn't make it in the great competition for people's time,'' he said.
 Ms. Glassman acknowledged that the decision to close offered tangible losses as well as significant gains. 
 ''There's sadness that a museum is closing,'' she said. ''But the mistake that some people make is that they think, 'O.K., now the museum's closing and the collection is going to be on loan at the Art Institute and that's the end of the story.' But, no, we look at this as a transition, a new beginning, not the ending.'' 
 She read aloud a portion of the foundation's mission statement that was posted on her office wall: '''Dedicated to fostering exploration, understanding and enjoyment of the visual arts in the United States.'' 
 ''Our mission doesn't say, 'Run a stand-alone museum,''' she said. 
 But for Chicagoans mourning the loss of a hometown cultural gem, this comes as small consolation. 
 ''It's not a good thing to centralize culture,'' said Edward Lifson, host of ''Hello Beautiful!,'' an arts series on WBEZ, Chicago Public Radio. ''Having everything under the roof of the Art Institute is not a good thing.'' 
 James Yood, a Chicago-based art critic, agrees: ''When it comes to art museums, you never get addition by subtraction,'' he said.
 ''To me this is a huge blow to the ego of the city,'' Mr. Lifson said. ''If Chicago can't support a museum for American art, that's embarrassing. What are we saying about ourselves?'' 
 Paradoxically, another of the Terra Museum's farewell exhibitions, ''Chicago Modern, 1893-1945: Pursuit of the New,'' was one of its most critically acclaimed and well-attended shows. The show is a tribute to the artistic achievements of Chicagoans and to the city itself, which, as it happened, never truly embraced the museum.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Terra Museum of American Art in Chicago is closing tomorrow because of lack of attendance. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CLOSINGS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (84%); HALLOWEEN (78%); PAINTING (78%); ART DEALERS (76%) Art; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (83%) Terra Museum of American Art (Chicago); Art Institute of Chicago

PERSON: David Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



682 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Health Care and the Free Market

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 About six years ago I went over the economic feasibility of a universal Medicare program with three distinguished economists using a system that limited the total cost of the program to 14 percent of gross national product, slightly lower than the figure for current spending. 
 This would save billions of dollars, eliminate the insurance company middleman, allow people to choose their doctors and slightly lower the annual income of the highest-paid doctors. It would be a boon to small business and middle-income earners and could be put into place quickly. 
 We could all be much more confident of the quality of our care, and the United States would finally be a ''developed'' nation in terms of health care.

Charles M. Plotz, M.D.
Brooklyn, Oct. 29, 2004

The writer is professor of medicine, State University of New York at Brooklyn.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); INSURANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Charles M (Dr) Plotz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



683 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: In Atlanta, Relief That the Hometown Airline Remains Aloft

BYLINE: By ARIEL HART

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
Nita Bertsche, who lives a few miles north of Atlanta and has been flying on Delta Air Lines for 20 years, was relieved this week to hear that the airline had, for now at least, managed to avoid bankruptcy.
 ''For people in Atlanta, it's sort of the airline of choice,'' she said. But then asked what she would do if she no longer had the option of flying Delta, she quickly replied: ''I'll keep flying. I'll find something else.'' 
 Across Atlanta, which has grown along with its hometown airline for more than half a century, Delta's travails -- and its decision late Wednesday not to file for bankruptcy protection -- are being met with a similar mix of support and realism about the airline industry's struggles. In fact, it is not new news that a low-fare airline, AirTran, has been eating into Delta's long dominance. 
 Jose Gonzalez, 43, who works for Delta helping answer passenger questions, said he was laid off for a brief period several years ago. ''I'm not worried,'' he said. ''When I came here, I was looking for a job, and I can look for a job again.''
 The airline is the Atlanta region's largest private employer, providing about 30,000 jobs directly and supporting perhaps twice that indirectly, said Mark Vitner, a Wachovia economist who tracks the region, and who spoke on his way to a Delta flight at the Atlanta airport. It is the dominant carrier at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, which is the world's busiest airport, with 79 million passengers last year. It is, as Mr. Vitner said, ''probably the single most important economic development engine in Atlanta.'' 
 But the airport's very success has become a challenge for Delta, as other carriers stand waiting to pick up any business. ''One of Delta's problems,'' Mr. Vitner added, ''is that their No.1 hub is seeing significant competition from just about every carrier in existence.''
 The city is now the air hub of the South, just as its status as a rail hub in the Civil War made its destruction a must on Sherman's march to the sea. The airline, which started out in the South with crop-dusting planes to fight the boll weevils attacking the cotton in the Mississippi Delta, moved its headquarters to Atlanta in 1941.
 Mayor Shirley Franklin said Atlanta and Delta have a symbiotic relationship. ''If you believe as I do that the airport has been an engine, a generator, a catalyst for economic growth, Delta Airlines has played an integral role in the development of Atlanta, Ga., and the region,'' she said.
 ''Atlanta's economic success is tied to Delta's economic success,'' she added. ''We care very much how they come through this.''
 Her comments were echoed by economists. ''On one level, you think about a company like Delta in terms of what do they mean for employment,'' said Dr. Roger Tutterow, chairman of the economics department at Kennesaw State University, just north of Atlanta.
 ''But I also think it would be hard to overstate what it has meant for Atlanta's growth to have one of the three largest international airlines based here in Atlanta. Not only in terms of visibility, but also the availability of flights has made it a much more attractive destination for corporate relocations.''
 Regionally, Dr. Tutterow said, ''it has been a pillar for economic development throughout the South.'' 
 Still, bargain carriers have chipped away at Delta. AirTran has made its major operations base here, and recently opened a $17 million maintenance hangar at the airport. It will welcome the opportunity to expand into Delta's markets, Dr. Tutterow said. 
 That others might pick up the slack in travel has been no immediate comfort for places like Fayette County, south of Atlanta near the airport and home to more than 3,500 Delta employees with an average salary of $93,000.
 ''They're 7 percent of our work force,'' said Brian Cardoza, president and chief executive of the county's development authority. The psychological impact of a Delta bankruptcy would be huge, he said.
 But for today, he said, ''Yeah, there's relief.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Delta's problems have raised concerns in Atlanta, where the airline has its headquarters and is the region's largest private employer. (Photo by John Bazemore/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (85%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR FARES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%) Airlines and Airplanes; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: Ariel Hart

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (95%) GEORGIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



684 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Growth Rate Of Economy Edged Higher Over Summer

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The economy picked up a little more speed during the summer quarter from July through September, expanding at a 3.7 percent annual rate, the government reported yesterday. 
 The growth in the nation's output of goods and services, according to the Commerce Department's initial estimate, exceeded the 3.3 percent rate registered in the second quarter -- when the economy was held back by a surge in energy prices, which took a big bite out of the budgets of American households and dented consumer spending. 
 But despite the third-quarter improvement, some analysts and business executives expressed worries over the economy's vulnerabilities. Growth could be crimped by everything from continued high oil prices and lackluster income gains to the deepening trade and balance of payments deficits. 
 ''The numbers are good,'' said William Zadrozny, chief executive of Siemens Financial Services. ''But there is a lot of uncertainty weighing down on the economy.''
 Coming out just days before the election, the report set off a final political skirmish between supporters of both presidential candidates over economic figures.
 The Bush administration hailed the figures as validation of its tax-cutting strategy. ''G.D.P. continues to grow above the average of the 1970's, 80's and 90's,'' Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said, ''while the unemployment rate remains below the average for those decades.''
 Advocates for Senator John Kerry, however, argued that Mr. Bush's economic track record was disappointing. ''It's not the kind of growth that's getting us jobs,'' said Representative Pete Stark of California, the senior Democrat on the Congressional Joint Economic Committee. ''We've got slow growth and giving tax cuts to the rich is not the way to solve it.''
 Beyond the political sparring, the latest economic evidence actually depicts a decidedly mixed picture. Concern over high energy prices and tepid job growth led to a fall in the University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment in October, the third monthly decline. But the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index, a measure of manufacturing strength, rose in the month.
 The data released by the Commerce Department showed an economy at a crossroads -- still healthy but propped up by some factors that are expected to diminish. 
 ''We are far from the robust pace that we had a year or two ago,'' said Rich Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research. ''But basically the economy is running at a comfortable pace. I suspect we will still lose some growth.''
 The report underscored the importance of consumer borrowing and spending in keeping the economy moving. 
 Nearly nine-tenths of the economic expansion in the third quarter was accounted for by growth in personal consumption expenditures. Purchases of durable goods sped ahead by 16.8 percent, the fastest pace in over a year. Car sales alone, spurred by auto industry incentives aimed at clearing out dealer lots of 2004 models, made up more than a quarter of the growth recorded by the economy.
 ''The American consumer is the spender of last resort for the world economy,'' said Richard B. Hoey, chief economist and chief investment strategist of the Dreyfus Corporation.
 Business investment remained robust, growing by nearly 12 percent, a little less than in the second quarter. But inventories declined -- a potential sign of business concern over the strength of future demand.
 And international trade continued to exert a drag on the economy, as exports grew substantially less than imports.
 Any economic deceleration could be relatively smooth, though. Richard D. Rippe, chief economist of the Prudential Equity Group, expected that in coming quarters the economy could settle in at a rate of growth from 3 percent to 3.5 percent -- a pace considered close to the nation's long-term potential.
 This benign outlook is supported by moderate inflation. The index of personal consumption expenditures minus food and energy increased at a mere 0.7 percent annual rate, its lowest quarterly increase in over four decades. That strengthened expectations that the Federal Reserve will stay on a path of moderate and gradual interest rate increases.
 The biggest risk to this outlook, analysts said, is the question mark over energy costs. ''What oil prices do going forward is critical,'' Mr. Rippe said.
 But other sources of uncertainty remain as well. Employment growth is still lackluster. Business investment could also slow next year as the corporate tax break that allowed faster depreciation -- a big incentive to bring planned investment forward -- phases out at the end of 2004.
 The widening trade gap and its financial twin, the budget deficit, are also adding to a sense of unease in many corporate suites. ''Businesses are still concerned that there could be a shock to the system,'' Mr. Zadrozny of Siemens Financial said. 
 In another sign of economic stress, The Wall Street Journal reported that big auto dealers have been putting pressure on auto companies like Ford and General Motors to cut back further on car production.
 Perhaps most importantly, consumers may have squeezed themselves into an excessively tight spot. Even as the spending accelerated in the third quarter, income growth slowed, leading to a fall in the personal savings rate to 0.4 percent of disposable income. That is the lowest ever.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Spending Again''The economy got a lift last quarter thanks mostly to the largess of consumers.Graph tracks real change in G.D.P. at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, quarterly, from 2001 through 2004.Real change in consumer spending in the time period(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAX LAW (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (65%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Budgets and Budgeting; International Trade and World Market; Income; United States Economy

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); PETE STARK (51%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



685 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: GAYS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Marriage Between Gays Becomes Issue In Campaigns

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
The debate over same-sex marriage is reverberating through a handful of swing states and at least five Congressional races where campaign advertisements are attacking Democratic candidates for supporting for gay rights.
 In one vivid example, Mike Liffrig, a Republican candidate for Senate in North Dakota, has paid for television advertisements implying that Senator Byron L. Dorgan may support polygamy. The commercial displays a series of brides and grooms kissing at an altar being replaced by two men, and then by two men and a woman. 
 ''With Senator Dorgan now supporting gay marriages -- or whatever -- you can kiss our North Dakota values goodbye,'' the narration says. 
 Barry Piatt, a spokesman for Mr. Dorgan, said the advertisements were inaccurate and ''beyond the pale,'' arguing that they ultimately hurt the challenger's campaign.
 Although Mr. Dorgan opposes amending the United States Constitution to block same-sex marriage, he voted for the Defense of Marriage Act, which permits states to refuse to recognize such marriages performed in other states, and he also supports a ballot measure for an amendment to the state's Constitution blocking same-sex marriage. 
 Americans United to Preserve Marriage, an independent campaign organization set up by the Christian conservative Gary Bauer, has run commercials in Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania and on the Fox News Channel criticizing Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, for opposing the proposed federal amendment and voting against the Defense of Marriage Act. (Mr. Kerry has said he opposes same-sex marriage, but considers both the act and the proposed constitutional amendment needlessly divisive.)
 Mr. Bauer's group has also run advertisements in an Oklahoma Congressional race. The National Republican Congressional Committee has paid to run advertisements accusing Democratic representatives of supporting same-sex unions in Texas, Indiana, and Georgia, where the Representative Max Burns, a Republican, paid for one against his Democratic opponent, John Barrow as well.
 ''It's an issue that plays in some districts and it's a valid issue to discuss,'' said Carl Forti, a spokesman for the Republican committee.
 Roman Levit, Mr. Barrow's campaign manager, said the advertisements were ''purposefully distorting the issues,'' saying Mr. Barrow also supported the House version of the proposed marriage amendment.
 Cheryl Jacques, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights group, called the prevalence of commercials ''the worst we have ever seen,'' saying candidates were using the debate over same-sex marriage to ''divide and distract'' instead of discussing the economy, the Iraq war and other issues.
 ''This is the highest level of intensity and aggression ever,'' Ms. Jacques said. ''This is being used at every level and on every race.''
 In some cases, Ms. Jacques said, the accusations were applied to candidates who her own group did not support. In Oklahoma, she said, an advertisement by Mr. Bauer's group attacking Representative Brad Carson, a Democrat, quoted an editorial in a gay newspaper suggesting that he might someday be open to gay rights arguments. But Mr. Carson publicly supported the proposed amendment, and Ms. Jacques said he did not have a record of supporting gay rights. 
 Kristofer Eisenla, a spokesman for Mr. Carson, called the advertisements ''blatant lies about the congressman's conservative record.''
 In response to the accusation that the advertisements were a divisive distraction, Kristy Hamrick, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bauer, said gay groups started the fight by filing suits seeking the right to marry. 
 ''It is a conversation that Americans need to have,'' Ms. Hamerick said. ''Elections are a great time to have that conversation.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); REFERENDUMS (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COHABITATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLYGAMY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); BALLOTS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Marriages; Homosexuality; Election Issues; Political Advertising; Elections; States (US)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN BARROW (79%); BYRON DORGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) David D Kirkpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



686 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Joseph J. Jacobs, 88, Engineering and Construction Executive

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif., Oct. 29 

 BODY:
Joseph J. Jacobs, the chairman and founder of the Jacobs Engineering Group, one of the world's largest engineering and construction companies, died on Oct. 23. He was 88.
 The company announced his death on Monday. 
 A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Jacobs moved to California and founded his company as a one-man business in 1947, serving as a chemical engineering consultant and manufacturers' representative for large-scale equipment.
 The company, now public and based in Pasadena, designs, builds and operates plants in the oil, pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology industries. It had $4.6 billion in revenue last year and has more than 35,000 employees worldwide.
 Born in 1916, Mr. Jacobs was the son of a peddler who immigrated from Lebanon. The Jacobs family became wealthy during World War I by selling straight razors. But after the safety razor was invented, the family's fortune plummeted.
 Mr. Jacobs earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and taught college while he earned his master's degree and doctorate in that field.
 In later years, he served on the university's board of trustees and was on the board of trustees of Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, Calif., where he helped pay for the Jacobs Science Center.
 In 1983, President Ronald Reagan presented Jacobs with the Hoover Medal, recognizing his contributions in engineering, education and humanitarian efforts.
 The 1991 autobiography of Mr. Jacobs, ''The Anatomy of an Entrepreneur: Family, Culture and Ethics,'' detailed his philosophy of cultural and moral values for the business world. Four years later, he wrote ''The Compassionate Conservative: Assuming Responsibility and Respecting Human Dignity,'' which outlined his strategy for helping others within the context of his conservative political and economic bent.
 Mr. Jacobs was chief executive of his engineering company until 1992, when he left to found two venture capital firms and devote more time to charity work. He remained chairman of the Jacobs board.
 Mr. Jacobs, through the Jacobs Family Foundation, funneled $32 million into grants to nonprofit organizations over 16 years.
 Eight years ago, he established the Jacobs Center for Neighborhood Innovation in San Diego, which helps communities turn their economic fortunes around through economic aid, technical assistance and training.
 He is survived by his wife, Violet; three daughters, Dr. Linda Jacobs, Margaret Jacobs and Valerie Jacobs Hapke; and two grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (96%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (76%); CHARITIES (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); FAMILY (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); WORLD WAR I (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); ETHICS (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (56%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Engineering and Engineers; Biographical Information

COMPANY: JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc

TICKER: JEC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (58%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



687 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Taking Bush At His Word

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I often criticize statements by President Bush, so today let me praise some of his real wisdom:
 Oct. 11, 2000: ''If we're an arrogant nation, [foreigners] will resent us. If we're a humble nation but strong, they'll welcome us. We've got to be humble.'' 
 It's a good thing Mr. Bush tried to be humble, or the U.S. would have an approval rating even lower than 5 percent in Jordan, and Osama bin Laden's approval rating in Pakistan would be higher than 65 percent.
 Feb. 27, 2001: ''I hope you will join me to pay down $2 trillion in debt during the next 10 years. We should approach our nation's budget as any prudent family would.''
 But Mr. Bush, with the help of a weak economy, has transformed the Clinton budget surpluses into huge deficits. Since Mr. Bush took office, the federal debt has increased by $2.1 trillion, or 40 percent.
 Sept. 25, 2000: ''It is clear our nation is reliant upon big foreign oil. More and more of our imports come from overseas.''
 Hmm. And many of our exports go abroad. Meanwhile, despite the lackluster economy, oil imports are 1.3 million barrels per day higher than in Mr. Clinton's last year in office.
 June 11, 2001: ''My administration is committed to a leadership role on the issue of climate change.''
 Great! Because America's carbon dioxide emissions, associated with global warming, have risen 1.7 percent since then.
 June 26, 2003: ''Notorious human rights abusers, including, among others, Burma, Cuba, North Korea, Iran and Zimbabwe, have long sought to shield their abuses from the eyes of the world by staging elaborate deceptions and denying access to international human rights monitors.''
 It takes a big man to admit mistakes, like his administration's practice of hiding certain Arab prisoners from Red Cross and other inspectors.
 Nov. 5, 2003: ''In the debate about the rights of the unborn, we are asked to broaden the circle of our moral concern. We're asked by our convictions and tradition and compassion to build a culture of life, and make this a more just and welcoming society.''
 Abortions declined in the U.S. in the Clinton years; the abortion rate dropped by 22 percent in the 1990's. But while data are incomplete, abortions appear to have increased sharply since Mr. Bush took office. Glen H. Stassen, a Christian pro-life theologian, estimates that 52,000 more abortions occurred in 2002 than would have been expected based on the previous trend. Professor Stassen attributes the rise in abortions in part to the troubled economy and concerns among pregnant women that they cannot afford to have babies.
 May 25, 2004: ''One of the challenges we face is to make sure the health care system responds to the needs of the citizens.''
 But five million more Americans don't have health insurance, compared with when Mr. Bush took office.
 Sept. 9, 2003: ''We must focus early to make sure every child can read and write and add and subtract.''
 But Mr. Bush's budget guidelines translate into inflation-adjusted reductions in 2006 alone of more than $900 million for Head Start and childhood education.
 May 24, 2003: ''We will not tolerate nuclear weapons in North Korea.''
 On Mr. Bush's watch, North Korea is generally believed to have gone from two nuclear weapons to about eight. 
 2001: ''Not on my watch.''
 Scrawled note by Mr. Bush on a report to him about the 1994 genocide in Rwanda that had occurred under President Clinton.
 That's reassuring to the 100,000 or more people in Darfur who have died in a spasm of murder and rape that Mr. Bush acknowledges as genocide. 
 Sept. 30, 2004: ''The biggest threat facing this country is weapons of mass destruction in the hands of a terrorist network.''
 But the single most important step to reducing the risk that a nuclear weapon will destroy New York is to secure loose nukes abroad, and Mr. Bush has been lackadaisical about that. Only 135 out of 600 metric tons of Russian nuclear materials have been given comprehensive upgrades, and Mr. Bush initially proposed cutting funds for that program.
 Sept. 2, 1999: ''Effective reform requires accountability. It is a sad story. High hopes, low achievement. Grand plans, unmet goals. My administration will do things differently.''
 Oh? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ABORTION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); RELIGION (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%) Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



688 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ELECTORATE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: 4 Years Later, Some Voters Switch Sides

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
For all the talk about a politically polarized nation, there are defectors out there among the electorate, a relatively small but distinct subset who voted for the presidential nominee of one party four years ago and now are prepared to vote for that of the other on Tuesday.
 Both sides say they have been reaching out to these voters in seeking every possible advantage on Election Day. 
 Many of them cite concern about the war in Iraq as the reason that prompted their switch. And that concern has brought defections not only in the direction of Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee.
 ''Any switch in office now would create turmoil,'' said John Pal, a 57-year-old interior designer in Houston who voted for Al Gore in 2000 and now supports President Bush. Turning the president out of office, he said, ''would give the terrorists a sign that we are weak, and would be very costly for us.'' 
 Mr. Pal is not alone. The most recent New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted Oct. 14-17, found that while 11 percent of people who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 said they were voting this time for Mr. Kerry, 7 percent of those who voted for Mr. Gore said they would vote this year for Mr. Bush. The difference was within the margin of sampling error.
 In follow-up interviews, many of those who voted Democratic in 2000 but are voting for Mr. Bush now said they were reluctant to change commanders in chief while the war continued. On the other hand, voters who supported Mr. Bush in 2000 but oppose him now said they were deeply pessimistic about the president's handling of Iraq.
 Richard Linn, a registered Republican who lives in Columbus, Ind., voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 because he perceived him as a fellow hawk on defense.
 But Mr. Linn, a retired air traffic controller, says the president has so botched the war and America's standing in the world that he is switching to Mr. Kerry.
 ''I've simply become disgruntled with the man,'' Mr. Linn said of Mr. Bush. ''I believe very little of what he says anymore.''
 Many of those interviewed said the process of deciding had occurred over time and been arduous. They described themselves as based more or less in the political center and, though most are registered with one party or another, saw themselves not as party loyalists but as independent thinkers.
 They also said that in 2000, they saw little difference between the candidates and little import in the election. Now, almost all said, the war in Iraq, even more than the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, has given them a sense of urgency.
 ''I didn't see a great deal of difference between Bush and Gore, but President Bush has really shifted a great deal since then,'' said Larry Howell, 57, a software engineer in Columbus, Ohio, who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 and is now voting for Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Howell, who told of having been ''downsized'' in 2001, said his concern about the economy was intertwined with concerns about Iraq.
 ''I have a lot of misgivings over Bush's reasons for going into Iraq, and now we have to siphon off hundreds of billions of dollars to pay for a war like that,'' he said. ''Bush is on a railroad track toward a very unpleasant future at this point, and it can only get worse.''
 Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster working for Mr. Kerry, said people's memories of how they voted four years earlier tended to be unreliable. 
 ''If you ask people today who they voted for in 2000, Bush would have had a six-point lead,'' he said, whereas in fact he lost the popular vote to Mr. Gore by a half-million. The difference is attributable to what pollsters call ''the halo effect,'' a desire to associate with the winner.
 Still, Mr. Mellman said, polling shows that ''there are many more people who are moving from Bush to Kerry than are moving from Gore to Bush.''
 ''The real swing is among independents,'' he said, ''and they have swung to us.'' 
 He said that the votes of these people would be decisive.
 But Matthew Dowd, a senior strategist with the Bush campaign, said that party affiliation was a more reliable indicator in the battle for defectors and that by this measure, Mr. Bush was doing better than Mr. Kerry.
 ''We get 93 percent of Republicans, and he gets 87 percent of Democrats,'' Mr. Dowd said. The Times/CBS poll showed a similar result.
 Many of the switching voters had difficulty making their decision. Andrew Kohut, president of the independent Pew Research Center, said his polling on Oct. 20 found that 61 percent of those who were now voting for Mr. Kerry described the choice as hard, while 38 percent who had settled on Mr. Bush said the same. Mr. Kohut said this reflected concern about changing horses in midstream.
 Mr. Linn, the Indiana Republican, who served in the Air Force during the Korean War, said he had supported Mr. Bush up through the invasion of Iraq but had now soured on him.
 ''We haven't found any weapons, and our boys are just getting killed over there,'' he said. He added that despite having voted for Mr. Bush four years ago, he was so angry at him today that ''the earth will have to cave in for me to vote for him now.''
 Others are less certain. Terry Hammer, 44, a registered nurse in Springfield, Mo., voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 and is now a fence sitter, though leaning to Mr. Kerry.
 ''The invasion of Iraq was ill advised,'' Mr. Hammer said. ''But we can't go back in time and undo it, and there's something to be said for staying the course and not flinching. I feel it might be a break in the continuity to switch right now.''
 He is nonetheless leaning toward Mr. Kerry, he said, in part because he does not like Mr. Bush's support for changing the Constitution to ban gay marriage and because he is worried about ''that explosives cache that went missing.''
 ''That reinforces my belief that the Iraq war didn't make the world safer but more dangerous,'' he said.
 Craig Boehnen, 36, a meat cutter who lives outside Fort Worth, said he supported Mr. Gore in 2000 but was now supporting Mr. Bush for fear that Mr. Kerry was too weak.
 ''My main thing about Kerry is, How is he going to react to the terrorism?'' Mr. Boehnen said. ''The way I look at it is, if someone came to my house and did damage to my family, I'm thinking revenge. I don't think Kerry would be as strong as Bush. I think he might cut the military budget and cut the C.I.A.''
 Mr. Pal, the Houston designer, said he had similar concerns. He said that he escaped from Romania in 1980 and that he fully supported what he saw as Mr. Bush's determination to spread freedom around the world.
 ''This is my country, and I will defend it,'' he declared. He said he was teaching his three sons ''the values of freedom and that sometimes you need to fight for it.''
 Myrtle Dettman, 81, of Evergreen, Ala., said she was switching to Mr. Bush because he ''has a little more experience since he's already in the office.'' She also said she knew little about Mr. Kerry and perceived Mr. Bush as ''a good, moral, Christian man.''
 Of the former Bush supporters, few had anything positive to say about Mr. Kerry. As Mr. Howell put it, ''I'm turning away from Bush; I'm not drawn by Kerry.'' Any pro-Kerry sentiment was secondary to dissatisfaction with the war.
 One independent, Rick Snyder, 47, a pharmacist in Northampton, Pa., who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000, said that he had a friend with Parkinson's disease and that he favored Mr. Kerry because the senator would promote stem cell research. But his main reason for abandoning Mr. Bush, he said, is that ''I'm very disappointed with the Iraq war.''
 Similarly, Joan Deane, 78, of Scarborough, Me., a registered Republican who is fond of the Bush family, said that she found Mr. Kerry ''Lincolnesque'' but that it was her sentiment against the incumbent that was motivating her now to vote for the senator.
 ''George W. is not as smart as other people,'' she said. ''He has about 10 phrases that he uses over and over again. He's a little arrogant when he walks. And he was so foolish to go over to Iraq. Go back and look at the Bible, honey. They've been fighting over that dreadful piece of land forever.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Linn says he voted for George W. Bush but won't again. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); TERRORISM (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues ; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); AL GORE (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Katharine Q Seelye; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



689 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; APPLE'S ALMANAC; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: This Time Around, the World Is Watching, Nervously

BYLINE: By R.W. Apple Jr.

DATELINE: WALLOON LAKE, Mich. 

 BODY:
Nothing shakes up an old political reporter quite like living in another country while the spellbinding drama of a presidential election unfolds back home.
 Spellbinding, that is, for Americans and for the few foreigners who take a special interest in America and things American. There aren't too many people overseas like a professor I met in West Germany in 1984, who told me how depressing he found it that no vote he ever cast would have half as much impact on his two sons' lives as the votes that Americans cast. Most people abroad, most years, could not care less. 
 In 1980, I was working in the Soviet Union -- gone now, like West Germany -- as the contest between Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter reached a climax. For me that November, the can't-miss spectacle was the annual parade in Red Square marking the anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution, not the television debates in the States. For me, that November, the pressing question was not who would occupy the White House for the next four years, but how the Soviet venture in Afghanistan would pan out, and whether the Soviet tanks reportedly poised on the border would invade Poland.
 In November 1984, I was in London. Britons were concerned with a national coal strike, then in its eighth month; the assassination of Indira Gandhi and the growing threat of terrorism. Some things never change. I wrote about their concerns and also, as I find in scrolling through The Times's electronic archive, about the struggle to preserve real British cheeses. Some people never change, either. I find no evidence that I (or my British hosts) paid very much attention to Mr. Reagan's re-election bid.
 This year is different. The University of Bologna and Italian television are staging a mock election between President Bush and John Kerry in La California, a tiny village on the Tuscan coast. Meantime, The Guardian, a liberal British daily, has urged its readers to write to citizens of Clark County, Ohio, a swing county in a swing state that Al Gore carried by 324 votes in 2000, in an effort to influence their balloting.
 As it happens, I know Clark County, which is in the southwest part of the state. My staunchly Republican parents met there while attending Wittenberg College, a small Lutheran institution in Springfield, the county seat. They certainly wouldn't have liked the letter from Neil Evans, who wrote from Kent to Thelma Arnold, urging her to vote for Mr. Kerry ''to preserve your once-great name internationally.'' Neither did Beverly Coale, Mrs. Arnold's daughter, a Kerry backer, who called it propaganda.
 All of which is a rather lengthy introduction to a report on an experience I had here in Hemingway country a week or so back, when the autumn leaves were at their most vivid, the colors so bright that they almost hurt your eyes (what would Monet or Kandinsky have made of them?).
 This year's crop of Knight-Wallace Fellows at the University of Michigan, all journalists in midcareer, were spending a weekend Up North, as Michiganders call this part of their state, and Charles Eisendrath, who runs the program, invited me to quiz the foreigners among them about their initial impressions of the current campaign. I did so, and some of the answers -- all their private opinions, not necessarily reflecting their employers' positions -- demonstrated how very different this election is.
 Like news reports from abroad, and like my own reporting on recent trips outside this country, they disclosed a decidedly one-dimensional view of things.
 Matthias Schepp, 40, a longtime foreign correspondent for Stern, a widely read German magazine, said it had taken a poll that showed that 81 percent of people in Germany preferred Mr. Kerry, with many of the remaining 19 percent responding that they would choose ''neither of the above'' if they were given that option.
 ''It's not just the traditional anti-American fringe,'' he said. ''People who have always been grateful for the help of the United States after the war and later in reunifying our country are upset, too, mainly because of the Iraq war. We said it would turn out badly, and it has, but Bush is seen as telling us, 'My way or the highway.'
 ''It is very well noted that our chancellor put his job on the line by sending German troops to Afghanistan, against our tradition and history, and for his courage he has gotten very little in return.''
 Mr. Schepp's wife, Mariam, a Russian and a concert pianist, put the problem into a broader framework. Because of the problems in Chechnya, she said, she sympathized with Mr. Bush's fight against terrorism. But she added: ''He wants to plant American-style democracy around the globe. It won't work, because every country is unique, with its own history, its own culture.''
 Mr. Kerry, she said, struck her as ''better-educated, more sophisticated and less rustic'' than Mr. Bush. Because of his service in Vietnam, she suggested, he has ''a better understanding of what war is like'' and might change American policies.
 Sergio Danishewsky, 39, of the newspaper Clarin in Buenos Aires, said he, too, hoped for a change in American policies, ''but I'm much more skeptical.''
 Argentina, he said, had suffered under the presidency of Carlos Saul Menem, partly because ''he wanted to be like George Bush's father, the other President Bush.'' But the biggest reason Argentines ''have a negative image of the United States as a government and a policy, though not as a people,'' as he put it, is that unlike European countries, the United States ''does not work with us to solve our economic difficulties.''
 Mi-Seok Koh, 44, an assistant editor at Dong-A Ilbo, one of the leading papers in Seoul, South Korea, said she had watched all three presidential debates on television and concluded that in at least one respect President Bush was exactly like the South Korean president, Roh Moo Hyun, because ''he blames everything on the media.''
 Describing Mr. Bush as ''a rude cowboy,'' Ms. Koh continued: ''The American people don't really care what he says. Most of them think that he looks like a strong leader, which is what they want.''
 Although she argued that most people in South Korea would rather see Mr. Kerry as president, Ms. Koh said she believed Mr. Bush would win a second term.
 Why? Long pause. ''Because I'm a pessimist,'' she finally replied.
 There was more in the same vein from other fellows, each of whom described the American election at least in part from the perspective of their own country's interests and difficulties. But what was striking was that not a single one of them failed in some way to report that Mr. Bush's policies had cost the United States friends. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); CHEESE (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; News and News Media; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) University of Michigan

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) R W Jr Apple

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



690 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE WEST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: An Evolving Identity Helps to Leave Five States in Search of a President

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: ACOMA, N.M., Oct. 29 

 BODY:
As the sun sets over the land on Election Day, the American West could become the landscape of victory for the man who will be president in the next four years.
 For all the attention that the parties are paying to Sioux City, Iowa, or Dayton, Ohio, the election may well be decided in places like Lake Havasu City, Ariz., where the London Bridge was transplanted to the sands of the Mojave Desert, or here at Acoma, an Indian pueblo that claims to be the oldest continuously inhabited city in the nation. 
 Heavily urban despite its open spaces, and soon to be more Hispanic, the West is also an unpredictable region in search of a new political identity. The war, terror, climbing health insurance premiums all matter here as elsewhere, but people are more likely to be independents. 
 As the electoral map dried up in the South for Democrats, they turned to the long-forgotten interior West. But both campaigns have discovered that political brand loyalty is a hard thing to find here. 
 ''I'm a Democrat who voted for George Bush last time, and I'm voting John Kerry this time just because things don't feel right and maybe change is the only way out,'' said Amanda Mordem, a nurse's assistant in Bullhead City, Ariz., a sprawling town at the edge of a county that takes in part of the Grand Canyon and Indian reservations.
 Five states -- Oregon, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado and New Mexico, with a total of 36 electoral votes -- are still within reach of either candidate, according to most recent polls.
 A tour through these five states this week, when millions of people were well into the thick of early voting, found a big land pulsing with the harsh intimacy of battle in the campaign's closing days. 
 ''You can't keep it down this year -- people are just off the charts for this election,'' said Elizabeth Boyd, who works at the Face to Face Spa in Bend, Ore., where politics has elbowed aside talk of wonder exfoliants and earth-friendly facials.
 Former President Bill Clinton plans to be in New Mexico Saturday and Sunday, pitching for its five electoral votes as President Bush's father did on Thursday. 
 ''I've never seen the kind of churning we're seeing right now in the West,'' said Ron Judd, the Western region director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''There is this undercurrent like we had in 1994 when the Congress changed hands, like we're on the verge of something big.''

Oregon's Culture Clash
 In Oregon, a state where doctors can prescribe drugs for the terminally ill to kill themselves but drivers cannot pump their own gas, people have been voting for more than a week in the all-mail-in ballot. 
 Oregon looked like a tossup for much of this year, with an island of Democrats in the Portland metropolitan area surrounded by Republican counties. Some Oregonians believe the state is trending more like Colorado did in the 1990's, full of Republican California exiles. But Democrats are still optimistic. Al Gore eked out a 7,000-vote victory in 2000, but he was hurt by Ralph Nader, who drew 5 percent of the vote. This year Mr. Nader is not on the ballot. 
 The red and the blue clash in Deschutes County, on the other side of the mountains from Portland. It grew by 54 percent in the 1990's, drawing people who live for cutthroat trout that rise in streams that dance through the high desert.
 Clay and Julia Johnston, a pilot and his wife, formerly of Portland, were sipping coffee while filling out their mail-in ballot on a chilly morning. They predicted a victory for President Bush -- at least in this county where the two political cultures of the state collide.
 ''Wherever there is money, there are Republicans,'' said Mr. Johnston. ''And there is a lot of money here.''

Nevada's Wild Cards
 South, in Nevada, money was on the air nonstop, and on the ground, as the campaigns bused people to mobile voting centers. 
 ''Who wants to vote -- this way to the bus,'' said a Bush campaign operative on Tuesday outside the giant Victory Christian Center in a strip mall in Henderson, for much of the last decade the nation's fastest-growing city. 
 Nevada has only five electoral votes, but they have been fought over as if they were the last undeveloped real estate on the Las Vegas Strip. 
 A few blocks away, union supporters were getting their talking points and neighborhood maps for a day of ground-pounding. They were told to remind stay-at-home moms of the nuclear waste site planned at Yucca Mountain -- an issue Senator Kerry has been raising.
 Paul Sanchez, one of many out-of-state union leaders doing political work in the desert, had a telephone number scrawled on the back of his hand. ''I go into the poor neighborhoods, knock on doors and just tell people to call this number -- someone will come get them and take them to the polls,'' said Mr. Sanchez.
 Though Republicans are thought to have a slight edge in Nevada, the wild cards are state ballot measures, in particular a popular one that would raise the minimum wage. 
 Pocketbook issues are the big concern for Debra Pinkerton, an undecided voter who lives in Searchlight, a wind-raked town at the southern tip of Clark County. 
 ''One of my children works in Vegas, and he makes $11 an hour but has to pay $70 a week for health insurance, which he needs because he and his wife just had a baby,'' said Ms. Pinkerton, who qualifies as pioneer stock in Nevada, with grandparents who moved to the state in the 1930's, when Nevada had barely 90,000 people.
 With a booming economy, jobs are not an issue in Nevada. The bare bones of new homes stretch to the desert's edge.
 Democrats are counting on a live-and-let-live cultural attitude to counter Republicans like Mary Bolinger, who has already voted, and was walking around Henderson with a button that read: ''I'm a Republican and a Christian. You got a problem with that?''
 The problem for Republicans may be that Nevada, like Oregon, is near the bottom in the ranking of states by percentage of churchgoers.

Colorado's Democratic Fling
 By contrast, in Colorado the big churches may give Republicans enough of an edge to hold the state after a surprising fling with indecision. The center for Christian conservatives is Colorado Springs, a metropolitan area of nearly a half-million people that exudes a youthful, prosperous, Rocky Mountain optimism. The New Life Church, whose impressive glass-and-concrete compound can be seen for miles, rises at the edge of town.
 The electoral math, for Republicans, comes from the big new homes along the Front Range.
 ''We call them the California middle class,'' said Rob Brendle, associate pastor at New Life, pointing to an expanse of McMansions. ''These neighborhoods are full of evangelicals who came here for a new life.''
 Inside the New Life compound, workers were finishing a new church that will seat 7,500 people and people wore buttons that said, ''I voted.'' The headquarters office features pictures of the head pastor, Ted Haggard, with President Bush and Mel Gibson. 
 Mr. Haggard -- or Pastor Ted, as everyone in the church calls him -- is president of the National Association of Evangelicals, which says it represents 30 million people. He has been to the Oval Office twice since Mr. Bush has been president. 
 ''We've been in regular contact with Karl Rove,'' said Mr. Brendle, referring to the president's chief political adviser. Though the church is officially nonpartisan, opposition to gay marriage and abortion have put it strongly in the Republican camp. To win this election, Mr. Rove has said, Republicans will need to turn out roughly four million evangelicals who did not vote in 2000. Mr. Brendle predicted an enormous Christian right turnout -- at least 75 percent among the 11,000 members of the New Life Church.
 ''Our people don't need to be bused to the polls and given a sandwich,'' he said.
 Democrats say Colorado is changing as the number of Republican-leaning California exiles levels off and Hispanics, who make up 17 percent of the population, gain ground. Also, the older suburbs around Denver have been promising new ground for Democrats.
 The burgeoning Hispanic population may be why Mr. Kerry chose Pueblo, in a county in southern Colorado that is nearly 40 percent Hispanic, as the site of his last visit a few days ago. He appeared with the state's Hispanic superstar, Attorney General Ken Salazar, who is in a close race with the Republican candidate, Pete Coors, for the open Senate seat.

Arizona's Hispanic Force
 Hispanics could also hold the key to what happens in Arizona, another formerly safe Republican state, which was rated close enough to be competitive in a recent poll by The Arizona Republic; other surveys give Mr. Bush a slight edge. The state is 25 percent Hispanic and has gained 470,000 new registered voters -- and two electoral votes -- since the 2000 campaign. 
 Though Republicans have a margin of about 100,000 votes in party registration, more than one in five voters in Arizona are independent, a political position where many in the New West park themselves. 
 The Latino vote is complicated: more conservative on social issues, not prone to high turnout. But no one denies its growing influence. There are 3.6 million Hispanics, or nearly one in four residents, in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado and Nevada.
 The other big vote in Arizona is the elderly, and they are more reliable voters than any other group. In Bullhead City, a fast-growing retirement and recreation community in the middle of the Mojave Desert on the banks of the Colorado River, older people were angry this week over the lack of sufficient flu shots. But they were not holding Mr. Bush responsible.
 ''I wasn't able to get my flu shot, and I really need it because I've got the emphysema,'' said Barbara Martinez, a retiree in Bullhead City, eating lunch in a medical facility cafeteria. ''But I don't see how you can blame President Bush for that.''

New Mexico's Indian Issues
 New Mexico, where Spanish-surnamed families trace their roots back centuries and Indians in Acoma have a direct link to the ancient Anasazi, may be the hardest state for the campaigns to figure out.
 Hispanics make up 42 percent of the population -- the highest of any state in the 2000 census -- while non-Hispanic whites are 48 percent. Compared with the national average, New Mexico is poor, and young, and it is growing -- by 20 percent in the last census. 
 American Indians, who make up 9 percent of the population, are only now being courted. Over the last week, John Kerry's sister was here at Acoma, as was Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton.
 Atop the Sky City of Acoma, where people live without electricity on a stone summit nearly 7,000 feet above sea level, some natives said they would not vote, that it meant nothing to them who ran the government in Washington.
 But tribal leaders said they wished the campaigns would pay as much attention to their issues as they do to interest groups like dairy farmers in Wisconsin. Marva Toya said she was worried about the possible closing of an Indian hospital an hour away, in Albuquerque.
 Darrell Felipe, the Acoma tribal operations manager, said: ''If one candidate would just bring up a single Native American issue, they could get the native vote. But they don't talk about us.''
 This year, in the closing hours of the race, the people who live in a town that most historians agree is twice as old as Boston may actually get their wish.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The presidential campaigns may not have addressed issues of concern to New Mexico Indians like Marva Toya, shown at the pueblo of Acoma. (Photo by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)
Debra Pinkerton, an undecided voter in Searchlight, Nev., said pocketbook issues were a big concern. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 ''These neighborhoods are full of evangelicals,'' said Rob Brendle, an assistant pastor of the New Life Church in Colorado Springs. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (54%); BRANDING (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Electoral College

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (78%); BEND, OR, USA (77%); DAYTON, OH, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (93%); MOJAVE DESERT (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Oregon; Nevada; Colorado; Arizona; New Mexico; Western States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



691 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Asia Markets React Calmly To Beijing's Rate Increase

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
Mainland Chinese stock markets dropped less than 2 percent on Friday, while most Asian financial markets reacted with surprising calm to the Chinese central bank's announcement late Thursday of its first increase in interest rates in nine years.
 The People's Bank of China acted on Thursday to slow economic growth and try to curtail inflation, and its slight increase in rates, and the possibility of further moves, are likely to start trimming growth in China's imports. 
 Asian economies have become heavily reliant on trade with China for growth, economists and analysts say. Yet in the first day of trading after the Chinese rate increase, stocks dropped by less than half of a percent in Hong Kong, on the mainland's doorstep, and by three-quarters of a percent in Japan, while rising modestly in South Korea, Malaysia, Australia, Taiwan and the Philippines, five big trading partners of China. 
 The mild response had several roots, experts said. Some kind of rate increase had been expected for many months, though the timing of the decision was a surprise. 
 China began tightening economic policy last spring when it imposed stringent administrative controls on the volume of bank loans and the issuance of zoning and environmental impact approvals. That package of measures caused Chinese stock markets to lose a quarter of their value last April and hurt commodity prices around the world on an expectation of slowing Chinese demand.
 But recently, those measures seemed to have lost some of their effectiveness. Instead of being an additional tightening move, Thursday's rate increase may in effect partly replace the April measures. 
 ''This is a switch of tactics, but it is not the start of a tightening cycle the way a Fed increase marks the start of a tightening cycle in the United States,'' said Donald Hanna, the chief Asian economist at Citigroup.
 As it increased rates Thursday, the People's Bank of China also removed the ceiling it had long imposed on the interest rates that banks may charge. That caused the handful of Chinese bank stocks -- most of the industry is state-owned -- to rise on Friday, and fostered hopes among investors that Beijing is deepening its commitment to a free-market economy, which could help growth and stocks alike in the long term. 
 One immediate benefit from the rate increase was a drop in world commodity prices, from oil to copper. But after falling $1.54 on Thursday in response to the Chinese decision, oil retraced a little over half its lossed on Friday, rising 84 cents, to $51.76. Higher inventories in the United States were also helping hold oil below its high of the week. Oil, in particular, has been a big worry for stock market investors across East Asia, where most countries have scant reserves of their own.
 Many macroeconomic models suggest that when a country becomes the biggest buyer of a commodity, a position that China now holds in goods from cement to steel, its domestic economic policies, including taxes and interest rates, can be used to push prices up or down, to its own benefit or detriment.
 China's low interest rates and breakneck growth have caused it to buy so much of so many commodities lately that it has driven their prices steeply higher, forcing Chinese companies to pay top dollar to their own detriment and to the benefit of exporters elsewhere. Thursday's rate increase could wind up indirectly saving money at companies across Asia that are now bearing the burden of high prices for imported raw materials.
 Another reason for the mild market reaction, economists said, was that the Chinese bank only raised borrowing and lending rates by a little over a quarter of a percentage point. That is too little to have much immediate effect, although further increases are expected. 
 ''It's the Alan Greenspan style -- you increase a quarter point, but maybe you have more to come,'' said Li Kui-wai, the coordinator of an Asian studies center at the City University of Hong Kong. By moving slowly, Beijing may actually set off one last burst of feverish economic activity by causing real estate developers and others to take out more loans and try to finish existing projects before interest rates go even higher, Mr. Li said. 
 The real estate sector's response may be the biggest question mark associated with the central bank's new willingness to use interest rates to slow the economy. Frenzied deal making has pushed apartment prices in big Chinese cities to the equivalent of 10 or more years' income for a typical white-collar worker, compared with less than 4 years' income in many American cities.
 Adjustable-rate mortgages have financed much of the double-digit annual appreciation in Chinese housing prices, and those borrowers will have to start paying more for the roofs over their heads as rates rise.
 ''The heart of China's investment boom is a massive and nationwide property bubble,'' said Andy Xie, an economist with Morgan Stanley, in a research report on Friday afternoon. ''China is experiencing mass speculation in property for the first time in its history.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); BONDS (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Interest Rates; International Trade and World Market; Stocks and Bonds; Credit

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: People's Bank of China

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



692 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Body of Japanese Hostage Believed Found in Iraq
A body believed to be that of Shosei Koda, 24, a Japanese traveler in Iraq who had been seized by militants, was found near Tikrit. He had been held by a group that had threatened to behead him if Japan did not start withdrawing forces. A9

The Pentagon ordered 6,500 soldiers in Iraq to extend their tours. A8

Yasir Arafat Treated in France
The ailing Palestinian leader arrived in France as the guest of the French government and was immediately taken to a military hospital for treatment of a mysterious ailment. A6

Warning From Afghan Captors
A group claiming to have kidnapped three foreign election workers in Afghanistan said it would execute them if the authorities pursued their search for the kidnappers. A9

Russian Overhaul Progressing
Russia's lower house of Parliament took its first step toward adopting President Vladimir V. Putin's overhaul of the country's political system despite signs of popular dissent. A3

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Shuttle to Resume Flights
NASA officials said that the space shuttle Discovery could take off in May or June. A11

NATIONAL A10-16, 20

Osama bin Laden, in Tape, Warns American Citizens
Osama bin Laden said in a videotape that the best way to avoid a repeat of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks was for Americans to stop threatening the security of Muslims. He did not explicitly threaten any new attacks in an excerpt. A1

The tape jolted the presidential campaign, bringing reactions from President Bush, who vowed that Americans ''will not be intimidated or influenced,'' and Senator John Kerry, who said Americans ''are absolutely united in our determination to hunt down and destroy'' terrorists. A1

Rulings by two federal courts made it virtually impossible for Ohio Republicans to continue their challenges of 23,000 new voters registrations before Election Day. A14

Campaign ads in swing states are attacking Democratic supporters of gay rights. A16

Expert Tells of Destroying Arms
An Army demolition expert said that his former unit in Iraq had destroyed tons of ammunition and explosives in a part of the munitions complex at Al Qaqaa in April 2003. A12

Intelligence Overhaul Falters
The lead Congressional negotiators on legislation to overhaul the nation's intelligence agencies gave up on trying to reach an agreement before Election Day. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

2 National Jewish Leaders Assail Bush Advertisement
The leaders of two national Jewish organizations demanded that Republicans in New Jersey stop using their names in fliers that urge Jews to cast their ballots for President Bush. B5

Mayor Endorses Schumer
Mayor Bloomberg crossed party lines to endorse Senator Charles E. Schumer's re-election. B3

Opera Conductor Arrested
Daniel Oren, a visiting conductor at the Metropolitan Opera, was arrested after he missed a court date in a divorce proceeding. B2

The Opera named Peter Gelb, 51, a record company executive, as its next general manager. A1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

ARTS B7-19

OBITUARIES A17

EDUCATION

Recruitment Effort Falls Short
New York City's effort to recruit 40 experienced principals has yielded only one hire. B1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Modest Growth Reported
The economy picked up a little more speed in the period from July through September, expanding at a 3.7 percent annual rate, the government reported. C1

Bush to Consider Petition
The Bush administration agreed to consider a petition from a coalition of textile manufacturers that would limit some imports from China. C1

Business Digest B1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Post-election sticker shock; ''three strikes'' in California; G.O.P. to the poor: don't vote; Lawrence Downes on the Chicago skyline.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B18
Crossword B16
TV Listings B19
Weather B20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (71%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); SPACE SHUTTLE (67%); SPACECRAFT (66%); RELIGION (64%); OPERA (60%); ARRESTS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (53%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JAPAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004



693 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2005 Ford Five Hundred; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Mature Audiences Suggested

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB

 BODY:
FELLOW boomers, can you hear the tick-tick-tick of the biological clock? Are your joints a little creaky when you roll out to greet the morning? Did you clutch your chest when the dreaded AARP card came in the mail?
 Relax. You're not just getting older, you're part of a new demographic. Ford feels your pain and offers ointment in the form of the 2005 Five Hundred, surely the oldest new car to be born in recent years. 
 Tall, spacious and bland, this is the sort of earnestly practical sedan my father would have loved -- and that is surely part of the reason it holds little appeal for me. 
 This is a longstanding aphorism in Detroit: Old men will buy a young man's car, but young men will never buy an old man's car. I suspect this holds true even for young-at-heart dudes approaching the big five-oh, trying to roll back the years with wrinkle cream, Grecian Formula and Viagra. It may be true for young women as well.
 From front to back and top to bottom, the Five Hundred looks, feels and drives like a vehicle to take you softly over the hill. Too bad, Dad, that you're not around to enjoy it.
 While its name evokes fabulous Fords of the company's glory years -- the Fairlane 500 and Galaxie 500 -- the new sedan's upright bearing and simple execution are perhaps more evocative of the seminal 1949 Ford that rescued the company from a financial abyss after World War II. J Mays, Ford's group vice president for design, has described the '49 model as the epitome of traits the Ford brand should stand for, like honesty, simplicity and a heck of a value. 
 Ford's planners tried to instill these qualities in the Five Hundred, and they priced it well: with a base of $22,795 and a typical sticker around $27,000, this is a lot of car for the money, even before the inevitable incentives whittle down the transaction price.
 But here is a chief difference between the Fords of '49 and '05: the older car was a breakthrough design; the new one is highly derivative. Its shape is unmistakably similar to some recent Volkswagens and Audis, particularly the Passat. This may be no coincidence, for Mr. Mays helped to create VW's style in his previous job. And while the arch-roof look is unlikely to offend anyone, it is no longer fresh; that Passat has been on the road since 1997. 
 In size and packaging, the Five Hundred is much like the Toyota Avalon, another large, high-set, roomy sedan -- and one that is also rather beige and conservative.
 Ford calls this ''the year of the car,'' and like its Detroit rivals it is stressing automobiles again after years of hauling in cash from trucks. While the American automakers neglected cars, Japanese companies like Toyota grabbed the initiative.
 A Detroit carmaker can fight back in one of two ways. It can wage the war on its own terms, emphasizing traditional American advantages like bold styling and raw power. This approach seems to be working for Cadillac and Chrysler.
 Or it can challenge the Japanese head-on, offering cars that are just as reliable (and just as bland) at a fair price. Ford has taken this route, building its own Avalon but pricing it like a Camry. Still, this is a tricky business, given the perception that Toyotas are built better.
 While the Five Hundred is nominally a replacement for the Taurus, at least until a smaller midsize car, the Fusion, arrives in a year, it occupies a new slot alongside the antediluvian rear-drive Crown Victoria. (The Taurus soldiers on, primarily for fleet customers.) A wagon version, the Freestyle, is Ford's entry in the booming market for car-based ''crossover'' utility vehicles.
 While the Five Hundred is no breakthrough, like the original Taurus of 1986 or the Chrysler 300 of today, it may hold some appeal for value-conscious mainstream buyers who do not want to make a fashion statement. These are among the reasons such customers may like it:
 It is spacious. With 107 cubic feet of interior volume, the cabin is nearly equal to the foot-longer Crown Victoria.
 Its trunk, at 21 cubic feet, is immense. To drive home this point, Ford rarely misses a chance to demonstrate that it can swallow eight sets of golf clubs. (If your golfing partners routinely bring along two bags apiece, this is the car for you.)
 It is solid. Both the Five Hundred and Freestyle are based on a well-engineered platform from Volvo, a Ford subsidiary. 
 Its visibility is good. The high cabin has deep windows, in contrast to the Chrysler's high beltline and shallow windows. You can rest your arm on the sill, like an old guy.
 It is easy to drive. Controls are clear and straightforward, with no surprises. 
 It is reasonably economical, with a rating of 21 m.p.g. city, 29 highway with front-wheel drive. It won't object to regular gas.
 It offers all-wheel drive, a boon in snowy states, for about $1,700 more. Both the Five Hundred and Freestyle use Volvo's well-regarded Haldex system.
 Still, while the Five Hundred may be a satisfactory transportation device for the mass market, little about it will appeal to people who want a little rancheros with their huevos. There is just one engine, essentially the same 3-liter Duratec V-6 that Ford has used in other cars, including the Taurus. The 203 horsepower is just adequate; gunning the accelerator produces a lot of roar but not so much forward motion.
 Still, the six-speed automatic in my test car -- I also briefly drove a model with the C.V.T. -- made the best of what it had to work with. Shifts were so silky they were scarcely perceptible. Unfortunately, the shifter has only two positions, Drive and Low, so if you like to use the intermediate gears for engine braking on hilly or winding roads, you have to trust the car's brain to do the right thing. In a cost-cutting move seemingly borrowed from General Motors, there is no gear indicator in front of the driver, only one on the console.
 Two things distinguish the interior. The back seat is immense, bordering on the obscene. All the seats are set high -- some four inches higher than in a conventional sedan -- reminding you of bulbous 1940's cars. Automakers call this ''command seating'' and it is said to be a leading reason people buy S.U.V.'s, especially women who want a clear view of the road. Still, when applied to a sedan, the highchair position feels contrived and artificial.
 While the car is certainly spacious, I did not find it particularly comfortable. You sit on top of these seats, not down in them; the bottom cushions are flat and the backrests provide no side support. Up front, your rump feels a gap between the cushions; in back, a bulge between the cushions is even more uncomfortable. 
 Ford claims ''best in class legroom,'' but my legs begged to differ. The designers could have stolen a bit of room from the rear to let the driver's seat slide back farther. Nor is the front floor truly flat -- mechanical protuberances intrude on the space, leaving an impression that the interiors aren't fully thought through. 
 The interior of the test car, a midrange SEL, was a monotone of tan plastic. Upscale trim brings slabs of unconvincing veneer from petrochemical trees. 
 Mercury's own version of the Five Hundred, the Montego, will have slight differences in styling and trim. 
 While Chrysler's sedan has a firm European ride, Ford dialed up the softness in its suspension. The chassis bottomed out terribly on Manhattan potholes, each hit producing a jarring ''thunk.'' On the New York Thruway, expansion strips were heard and felt to an unusual degree.
 The steering is vague with a reluctance to stay on center. Driving north from New York City in moderate crosswinds (courtesy of Hurricane Ivan), it was a chore to keep the car in its lane. But while the sedan showed the usual front-drive understeer -- forging ahead when the wheels are turned -- it handled better on winding roads than first impressions would suggest.
 I had minor complaints as well: the steering wheel felt too close; the high-beam stalk worked in the old-fashioned American way (pull to activate either high or low beams) rather than in the intuitive European manner (push for brights, pull to dim); the radio lacked a tuning knob; and reflections of the dash in the windshield were nearly blinding. 
 After years of financial distress Ford needs a home run, not the automotive equivalent of a bunt with two men out. Why didn't the company swing for the fences? Perhaps the designers overreacted to the poor reception the public gave their radically redesigned Taurus of 1996 -- the one on which oval shapes ran amok.
 Despite its strengths, the Five Hundred cannot match the Chrysler 300 in style or buzz, and it falls short of the Toyota Avalon in quietness and refinement. What's more, an all-new Avalon arrives early next year; as a target, Toyota is always in motion.
 Rather, the Five Hundred covers some well-trod ground. Ford has given its traditional customers a useful car that isn't likely to raise their pulse. With all of us getting older, this may be wise: too much excitement isn't good for the heart.

INSIDE TRACK: Modern maturity.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Five Hundred sedan, like its wagon counterpart, the Freestyle, shares its architecture with Volvos. (pg. 1)
 The Montego is Mercury's Five Hundred. (pg. 4)Chart: ''Three Big New Sedans From Detroit's Big Three'' lists features and specifications for Buick LaCrosse CXS, Chrysler 300 Limited and Ford Five Hundred Limited. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Automobiles; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (58%) Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: James G Cobb

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



694 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Casino Strike in Atlantic City Lingers With No End in Sight

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON; G. Patrick Pawling contributed additional reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
Pete Boruch is a ''Day 1-er,'' a bartender who has been on the job since the first casino opened here in 1978. He believes that he has helped build Atlantic City from the ghost town it was then to the $4.5 billion gambling operation it is now.
 That sense of ownership, he said, explains why he and thousands of other striking casino workers are still out there after nearly a month. Four hours a day, five days a week, they bang on tin cans and empty bleach bottles and yell at motorists to stay away until the city's longest strike is settled on the union's terms. 
 ''When the casinos came here, they promised us middle-class wages and middle-class benefits,'' said Mr. Boruch, 48, a bartender at the Showboat Atlantic City. ''We're not going to let them take that away from us.''
 Workers from seven casinos, including the Showboat, the Hilton and the Tropicana, went out on strike Oct. 1, and there is no sign the labor dispute will be resolved any time soon.
 The strikers described willingly interrupting jobs that paid $500 to $700 a week in wages and tips for the $300 a week that the union, Local 54 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union, pays them for picketing four hours a day, five days a week. 
 It has not been easy, they said. They spoke of their reliance on their spouses to work longer hours, and of their hopes that their children would understand that Christmas might be a bit lean this year. What they did not express was a willingness to give up.
 ''I used to be completely against unions, and I am not completely for them now,'' said Joy Korngut, 31, a cocktail waitress at the Hilton before the strike. ''But now that I've worked for a multimillion-dollar corporation, I can completely understand why food workers and others need these job protections, because without them, what's to stop the owners from saying, 'Hey, goodbye -- we gave your job to someone else'?''
 About 600 union members have already gone back to work, even as union and management remain divided on two significant points. The union wants a three-year contract that would put the Atlantic City and Las Vegas locals on the same negotiation cycle, vastly increasing the union's ability to threaten a national strike, and it wants the casino's high-end restaurants and other attractions, which are subcontractors, to be unionized, at least after current leases expire. The struck casinos, which are negotiating as a bloc, insist on a five-year contract, to avoid giving the union the power to lock up both Las Vegas and Atlantic City, and say they cannot dictate labor terms to subcontractors without losing them. 
 There have been two bargaining sessions, one of about 90 minutes just after the strike began, and a second on Oct. 22 that lasted 45 minutes. No talks are scheduled, and the casinos have been taking out almost daily newspaper ads and radio spots to paint the strike as an exercise in empire-building by the union, at the expense of its members' daily needs.
 The strike is against Bally's Atlantic City, Caesars Atlantic City, Resorts Atlantic City, Harrah's Atlantic City, the Atlantic City Hilton Casino Resort, the Showboat, and Tropicana Casino and Resort. The three Trump properties, the Marina, the Taj Mahal and the Plaza, have been skirting bankruptcy and agreed to the union's demands from the outset. The Sands followed suit, while the union's contract with Borgata, the city's newest casino, does not expire until 2007.
 The struck casinos are still operating, although at a lower level of service, using management staff and the workers who returned. A walk through the Showboat on Wednesday showed a few windows that were not as clean as they should be, and the cocktail servers for the table games were scarce. But most table games were elbow-to-elbow at midday on a weekday, and the slot machines rang loudly with each drop of a coin.
 The fuller impact of the strike will be revealed next month, when the casinos report their October winnings to the Casino Control Commission. But Leo Troy, an economics professor at Rutgers University's Newark campus and an expert on labor-management issues, said he doubted the impact would be great. The union, he said, made a big miscalculation.
 ''The strike has not played to the union's advantage,'' he said. ''I think they made a mistake, but I doubt they'd admit it.''
 The union spokesman, Chris Magoulas, dismissed the criticism. ''I guess some people would rather believe what management tells them,'' he said. He added, ''Ask the people on the picket line.''
 Kirk Townsel, a cook at the Hilton, said he saved $2,000 before the strike, which will have to carry him and his three children until January. But he hopes to be back before Thanksgiving. He would not, though, cross the picket line, he said.
 ''No, sir, not at all,'' said Mr. Townsel, 47. ''We're standing outside to let the management know that we're humans too -- we have to make decisions for ourselves.''
 The union increased its strike pay from $200 to $300 last week to help its members hold on, and there are food banks and social service workers at the union hall to make calls to creditors. Other unions are also contributing money and manpower.
 ''If this was just about the five-year contract, I'd go back tomorrow,'' said Dianna Coco-Tischler, 43, who quit her job as a preschool teacher outside Philadelphia for a waitressing job at the Showboat that paid $600 to $700 a week. ''But the subcontracting is the No. 1 thing, and I'll stay out on strike for that, because those could be our jobs they're giving away.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers picketed last week on the Boardwalk at the Atlantic City Hilton, one of seven casinos where a strike began Oct. 1. The dispute is over the casinos' nonunionized high-end attractions and the length of a contract. (Photo by Joseph J. Delconzo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); GAMING (90%); STRIKES (90%); CASINOS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%) Gambling; Casinos ; Labor

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (82%) Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union

PERSON: Iver Peterson

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



695 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 7616 words

HEADLINE: Faith at Work

BYLINE: By Russell Shorto. 
Russell Shorto is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author, most recently, of ''The Island at the Center of the World.''

 BODY:
Across the Judean desert, over the opal waves of the Mediterranean, along stone-paved roads that scored the plains of Syria and Asia Minor and carried into the heart of Rome, the Word spread 20 centuries ago. And as it did, it transmitted itself less in houses of worship than in the tents of carpet sellers, in wine shops and bakeries and maybe most of all at the tables found in every market town where stacks of coins signaled the indispensable presence of the moneylender. The market was the central place of human interaction. It was where change happened, where ideas lighted from one mind to the next. 
 And so it remains. Chuck Ripka is a moneylender -- that is to say, a mortgage banker -- and his institution, the Riverview Community Bank in Otsego, Minn., is a way station for Christ. When he's not approving mortgages, or rather especially when he is, Ripka lays his hands on customers and colleagues, bows his head and prays: ''Lord, I pray that you will bring Matt and Jaimie the best buyer for their house so that they have the money to purchase the new home they feel called to. And I pray, Lord, that you grant me the wisdom to give them the best advice to meet their financial needs.'' 
 The bank is F.D.I.C. approved. It has a drop ceiling and fluorescent lighting. Current yield on a 30-year mortgage is 5.75 percent. The view out Ripka's office window is of an Embers chain restaurant. Yet for all the modern normalcy, the sensibility that permeates the place comes straight out of the first century A.D., when Christianity was not a churchbound institution but an ecstatic Jewish cult traveling humanity's byways.
 The bank opened 18 months ago as a ''Christian financial institution,'' with a Bible buried in the foundation and the words ''In God We Trust'' engraved in the cornerstone. In that time, deposits have jumped from $5 million to more than $75 million. The phone rings; it's a woman from Minneapolis who has $1.5 million in savings and wants to transfer it here. ''I heard about the Christian bank,'' she tells Ripka, ''and I said, 'That's where I want my money.''' Because of people like her, Riverview is one of the fastest growing start-up banks in the state, and if you ask Ripka, who is a vice president, or his boss, the bank president, Duane Kropuenske, whose office wall features a large color print of two businessmen with Christ, or Gloria Oshima, a teller who prays with customers at the drive-up window, all will explain the bank's success in the same way. Jesus Christ has blessed them because they are obedient to his will. Jesus told them to take his word out of the church and bring it to where people interact: the marketplace. 
 Chuck Ripka says he sometimes slips and says to people, ''Come on over to the church -- I mean the bank.'' He's not literally a man of the cloth, but in the parlance of the initiated, he is a marketplace pastor, one node of a sprawling, vigorous faith-at-work movement. An auto-parts manufacturer in downtown Philadelphia. An advertising agency in Fort Lauderdale. An Ohio prison. A Colorado Springs dental office. A career-counseling firm in Portland, Ore. The Curves chain of fitness centers. American Express. Intel. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The I.R.S. The Pentagon. The White House. Thousands of businesses and other entities, from one-man operations to global corporations to divisions of the federal government, have made room for Christianity on the job, and in some cases have oriented themselves completely around Christian precepts. Well-established Christian groups, including the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association and the Promise Keepers, are putting money and support behind the movement. There are faith-at-work newsletters and blogs and books with titles like ''God@Work,'' ''Believers in Business'' and ''Loving Monday.'' 
 The idea is that Christians have for too long practiced their faith on Sundays and left it behind during the workweek, that there is a moral vacuum in the modern workplace, which leads to backstabbing careerism, empty routines for employees and C.E.O.'s who push for profits at the expense of society, the environment and their fellow human beings. No less a figure than the Rev. Billy Graham has predicted that ''one of the next great moves of God is going to be through believers in the workplace.'' To listen to marketplace pastors, you would think churches were almost passe; for them work is the place, and Jesus is the antidote to both cubicle boredom and Enron-style malfeasance.
 Os Hillman, a former golf professional and advertising executive in Georgia, is an unofficial leader of the movement. ''We teach men and women to see their work as not just where they collect a check, but actually as their calling in life,'' he says. ''We teach them to see what the Bible says about work, to see the spiritual value of their work.'' Through two organizations, the International Coalition of Workplace Ministries and Marketplace Leaders, Hillman and his wife, Angie, offer workshops, publish books and organize conferences. More than 900 ''workplace ministries'' are listed in I.C.W.M.'s member directory, and Hillman's faith-at-work e-mail devotional -- which features stories noting that Jesus and the apostles all had jobs and that most of the parables in the New Testament have workplace settings -- goes out to 80,000 subscribers daily. 
 Of course, Christianity isn't the only spiritual force in the workplace. There is an overarching faith-at-work movement afoot. Some companies are paying for, or at least allowing, workplace meditation sessions and Talmudic-study groups and shamanistic-healing retreats for employees. But this remains an overwhelmingly Christian nation. According to the Gallup polling organization (which itself fits into the subject of this article, as George Gallup Jr. is an evangelical Christian who has called his work ''a kind of ministry''), 42 percent of Americans consider themselves evangelical or born again, and the aggressiveness with which some evangelicals are asserting their faith on the job suggests that the movement's impact, for better or worse, is going to come from them. 
 Most mainline Christian denominations have been slow to embrace the movement. Church leaders either haven't recognized it as significant or have determined that since it takes place outside the walls of their institutions, it is by definition not of concern to them. But some pastors are out in front of their leaders: they have left their churches to become workplace-ministry consultants or have landed jobs as ''corporate chaplains,'' spiritual counselors hired by companies as a perk for employees. Rich Marshall, who is now a consultant, was a pastor in San Jose, Calif., for 25 years. ''I realized what I was preaching in my pulpit wasn't helping people in their work lives,'' he says. ''Now I'm on the road, speaking to businesspeople about integrating faith and work.'' 
 Looked at in light of some recent trends, there is a certain logic in all of this. First came the withering of the mainline Christian denominations and the proliferation of new, breakaway churches. Then consumerism took hold: today, many serious Christians are transient, switching churches and theologies again and again to suit their changing needs. With traditional institutions fragmenting and many people both hungry for spiritual guidance and spending more time at work than ever, it was perhaps inevitable that the job site would become a kind of new church. 
When it comes to writing about religion, objectivity is a false god. In the interest of full disclosure, I would like to state here that my own orientation is secular but that I also believe that all religions have more or less equal dollops of spiritual truth in them, which become corrupted by personal and cultural dross. This puts me at a certain distance from most of the people in this article. For one thing, all the marketplace Christians I encountered were firmly of the belief that Christian truth is the only truth and that part of their duty as Christians is to save the unsaved. 
 My task, then, was to try to understand a phenomenon that has, from my perspective, an inherent conflict in it. One of the movement's objectives is to give Christians an opportunity to ''out'' themselves on the job, to let them express who they are, freely and without feeling persecuted. Few would argue with such a goal: it suits an open society. And if it increases productivity and keeps C.E.O.'s from turning into reptiles, all the better. 
 Then again, the idea of corporations dominated by a particular religious faith has a hint of oppressiveness, a ''Taliban Inc.'' aspect. As it is, Christian holidays are the only official religious holidays in 99 percent of American workplaces surveyed by the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding. Religious-discrimination complaints to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission have increased 84 percent since 1992 and 30 percent since 2000. Georgette Bennett, the director of the Tanenbaum Center, attributes the rise in part to the influx of workers from Asian and African countries and an overall aging of the largely Christian homegrown workforce, leading to a clash of traditions. ''Added to that is the way in which religion has entered the public square and been politicized,'' she says. 
 Some friction may come from the insistence of marketplace Christians on seeing offices and factories as arenas for evangelism. Converting others, after all, is what being an evangelical Christian is all about. One tenet listed in the Riverview Community Bank's first annual report is to ''use the bank's Christian principles to expand Christianity.'' If that wasn't clear enough, Ripka put it in even starker terms for me: ''We use the bank as a front to do full-time ministry.'' Ken Beaudry, a marketplace pastor whose heating-oil company is just down the road from the Riverview bank, takes the same view. ''It's all about understanding that your business has a cause,'' he says. ''It's about recognizing that we exist as a company not just to make profits, but to change society. And our employees are on board with that.''
 On-the-job evangelism extends far beyond Ripka's community. In 2001, Angie Tracey, an employee at the Centers for Disease Control, organized what she calls a ''comprehensive workplace ministry,'' among the first officially sanctioned employee religious groups within the federal government. She says that many colleagues have been ''saved'' at her group's Bible studies and other gatherings on government property, and she describes the federal agency's not-yet-saved employees as ''fertile ground.'' Her program has spread rapidly within the C.D.C., and employees at other divisions of the federal government -- the Census Bureau, the General Services Administration, the Office of Personnel Management -- have contacted her about bringing the Word into their workplaces, too.
 To explore this movement, I felt I needed a guide. Of all the marketplace pastors I spoke with, Ripka stood out at once in the intensity of his faith, his commitment to using his workplace as a vehicle for spreading it and his openness -- his purity, if you will. There was also a modest personal connection between us: we are the same age and both grew up Catholic. After several telephone conversations, we made a kind of pact. He would welcome me into his bank and his home and would open up to me his world so that I might better understand why he and others think the faith-at-work movement is part of the next phase of Christianity. 
 And what would Ripka get in return? ''The Lord told me you would call, Russell,'' he said in our first conversation. Through me, he would get a chance to spread the Word. 
 So, the first thing to know about Chuck Ripka is that he says Jesus talks to him -- actually speaks to him, calling him ''Chuck.'' Ripka is 45, a father of five and grandfather of two who has been married to his high-school sweetheart for 25 years. He has a compact build and pinprick eyes; he talks in a soft, rapid monotone. He once fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, just as Jesus did in the wilderness. He says he has performed more than 60 faith healings in the bank and has ''saved'' another 60 people on bank premises. Knowing him at first only via telephone, and listening to his talk of visions and voices and Satan and ecstatic healings, I began to think of him as potentially unbalanced. Yet on meeting him, I quickly discovered that he is a pillar of his community. The mayor stopped by his office for a chat while I was there. The chief of police and the superintendent of schools see him for prayer. He occasionally gives spiritual counseling to Carl Pohlad, the owner of the Minnesota Twins. Ripka runs a quarterly faith-in-the-workplace lunch, which attracts up to 260 area businesspeople. Many Christian business owners and residents say they consider him to be not only a community leader and an expert in small-business loans but also a conduit of the divine, a genuine holy man. 
 Chuck and Kathi Ripka live in a beautiful log house on nearby Big Lake. When I went there for dinner, their teenage son was playing a video game in the semi-finished basement. Kathi served a nicely prepared dish of chili, accompanied by Italian bread and salad. Since we were all the same age and the two of them met in high school, we talked about that era. Chuck told me how back then, before he found Jesus, he was a longhaired kid who organized keg parties in the woods. ''Even then I had an anointing to bring people together,'' he said. ''I was just using it for the wrong purposes.'' 
 He worked odd jobs after high school and was born again when he was 21, during an Amway meeting. Shortly after, Jesus began talking to him. ''I used to assume that all Christians heard God the way I do,'' he said. ''But I realized over time that a lot of people don't hear, or they don't recognize, his voice. They think, Are these my thoughts or God's?''
 Like many marketplace Christians, the Ripkas have an individualistic theology. Though they currently belong to a Christian and Missionary Alliance church -- an evangelical subdivision that holds, among other things, that the second coming of Jesus Christ is imminent -- they have changed churches often, and for periods of time have belonged to no church. One of Chuck's refrains is that he's no theologian: he can't rattle off scriptural citations to suit every situation. So while quite a few people look to him as a spiritual leader, his own faith is based not on a denomination's core doctrine so much as on inner voices and convictions. 
 An individual reliance on the voice of God is part of the increasingly free-form nature of charismatic and evangelical Christianity in America. It jibes with the tradition's ultimate goal -- a personal relationship with Jesus Christ -- but many evangelical leaders worry that it's dangerously subjective. ''Pat Robertson is the one who uses it most: 'God told it to me,''' says Michael Cromartie, the director of the Evangelicals in Civic Life program of the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a conservative research center. ''I think theologically that's unfounded.'' Nonetheless, it seems fairly common among marketplace pastors. Don Couchman, a dentist in Colorado who has made his dental practice a workplace ministry, related a story not long ago about how in the middle of performing a root canal, the Lord spoke to him and told him to go on a pilgrimage to Argentina. I interrupted to ask how he knew it was the Lord. ''The sheep know the shepherd's voice,'' he said. (Some workplace Bible-study groups, including those at the Riverview bank, feature training in how to distinguish between God's voice and random thoughts.) 
 Ripka had his marketplace epiphany 20 years ago when he was a salesman at Levitz furniture in downtown St. Paul. ''From out of the blue the Lord said to me, 'Chuck, one day you're going to pray with a customer,''' Ripka said. ''Then several months later, I saw a man standing in the store looking at beds, and the Lord said, 'This is the one.' The man started to walk toward me, and I felt nervous and I said, 'Lord, I need your help.' The gentleman started to talk to me, and soon he was telling me he was divorced and his wife had custody of their children. Then he said: 'Why am I telling you this? I came in to buy a mattress.' I told him that three months before, the Lord told me someone would come in and we would pray together. So we did. And then something really important happened. The man bought a mattress. The Lord said, 'Chuck, I wanted to show you how to talk to people about me at work, and I wanted to prove to you that you would be able to do that and prosper.''' 
 It took some time, but when the Lord spoke next on the topic, he was very specific. ''The Lord told me in 2000 that Duane Kropuenske and I were supposed to begin a new bank,'' Ripka said. Ripka worked for Kropuenske and his wife, Patsy, at a bank in the 90's. When the couple were considering opening a new one, they wanted to found it on Christian principles. ''One day Duane came to me and said, 'The Lord told me I should talk to Chuck Ripka,''' Patsy Kropuenske says. When her husband got in touch with Ripka, Ripka was already expecting the call. Plans for Christianizing the bank expanded as they developed the project, with the three principals believing more every day that they were doing God's work. 
 As with all bankers, Ripka and the Kropuenskes care a lot about money, but they see it as a token of God's favor rather than a thing in itself. ''The Lord spoke to me again on the day we opened,'' Ripka said. ''He told me: 'Chuck, if you do all the things I want you to do, I promise I'll take care of the bottom line. I'm going to cause such a rate of growth, the secular world is going to take notice.' And that is happening.''
One of the most striking things about the Riverview Community Bank is its location. This isn't exactly the Bible Belt. We are 30 miles northwest of Minneapolis, that bastion of Minnesota's secular-liberal tradition. The adjoining communities of Otsego and Elk River lie on either shore of a lazy bend in the Mississippi, a smaller mirror image of the Twin Cities to the south. This is big-sky country, a landscape of wide prairies and cornfield sunsets, but change is all around. Much that was farmland just a few years ago is now bustling exurbia, where brand-new Targets and OfficeMaxs and Applebees sit like boxy packages on the horizon. Few residents commute to Minneapolis or St. Paul; few seem even to venture there. They have their own culture, which is fast evolving, and religion is part of the change. The Minnesota stereotype of Garrison Keillor's Lake Wobegon -- the pinched, resourceful, left-leaning Lutheran who eschews emotion -- is becoming less common. There is more charismatic and evangelical expression in the state than ever before. 
 ''I was born and raised here, and of course we were Lutherans,'' Patsy Kropuenske says. ''Confessing your faith vocally -- that wasn't our style. There's been a cultural change, and I feel it's something that's needed, with the way the world is going today. With all the terrorism and fear, people need guidance.'' She and her husband had long been serious about their faith: Duane sends $50 a month to support the televangelist Robert Schuller's ''Hour of Power'' program and has a shelf of American eagle statuettes in his office to show for it. But when Chuck and Kathi Ripka healed Patsy's debilitating back pain in the bank the day before it opened -- laying their hands on her and praying -- the healing demonstrated to her the kind of power Christ would bring to the bank, and she became more open in her faith. 
 As you drive along Route 101, heading here from Minneapolis, the bank is visible from three-quarters of a mile away: a massive temple-like structure of red stone blocks. Step inside, and you are softly assaulted by muted tones, wall-to-wall carpeting and curvilinear faux-wood desks -- standard-issue bank decor. Spend some time, and you begin to soak up an atmosphere of, well, peace. It is a very calm, orderly place, governed by Christian principles from the ground up. Many marketplace pastors say they try to be fair and aboveboard with customers and competitors alike and will even refer business to a competitor they know can do a better job of meeting a client's needs. At the Riverview bank, Ripka says, they make a special point of arranging loans for ''ethnic'' churches in the Twin Cities, which typically have a hard time getting banks to approve them. And when customers are behind on payments, he says, Riverview will ''give more grace'' than the typical bank. 
 The atmosphere of calm extends to the bank's 42 employees, who seem strikingly contented. Most are Christians, meaning not merely that they were raised in a Christian household but that their faith is overt. ''I've been in the banking business for 15 years, but this is my first Christian bank,'' says Shelly Nemerov, the operations officer, and laughs. ''I was a Christian before, but I didn't have a relationship with God. Here, I've gone from saying I'm a Christian to actually being a Christian.'' She handles returned checks and overdrafts, and at some point, under the Riverview influence, she had a Christian epiphany about her work: ''You hear constant problems -- 'I'm out of work,' 'My husband left me' -- and I used to think, Yeah, I've heard it all before. Then it hit me: these people need help. So now I say: 'What can I help you do? Can I teach you how to balance an account or how to manage your money?' And I'll say, 'I think we should pray over this.''' 
 Praying with customers is one thing Riverview has become known for. Gloria Oshima, a teller, was hired because of her previous experience at the nearby First National Bank of Elk River, but her faith, which she describes as ''bold,'' was also apparent in the job interview. ''When Gloria came applying for a job, I had a vision of her praying with customers,'' Ripka says. Referring to the bank's drive-up window, Oshima says: ''The Holy Spirit speaks to me when certain people drive up. A young lady pulled up one day. I looked at her, and she had tears in her eyes. I said: 'Are you O.K.? Would you mind if I prayed for you?' She said O.K. I said, 'Inside the bank, or right here?' She said, 'This is fine here.' So we prayed. I asked the Lord to remove the hurts within her and bless her day. She came again later, into the lobby this time, and she said, 'I'm doing so good, and I just wanted to thank you for your prayers.''' 
 Considering that many bank customers -- those seeking loans, say, or involved in bankruptcy -- are at a vulnerable moment in their lives, some may see this as preying on the weak. But the people at Riverview say they are only doing their jobs -- their real jobs. They seem to have realized that they are in a unique position not only to offer comfort to people who are going through difficult times but also to zoom in on lost souls. Nemerov says that none of the bankrupt or overdrawn customers she has offered to pray with have ever said no, and she is confident she knows why: ''Their hearts are already broken down and ready for it.'' 
Well, all right, this is strange-sounding stuff. To someone unfamiliar with marketplace Christianity, the questions pile up. Is this legal? Aren't there separation-of-church-and-state issues here somewhere? What about discrimination? 
 As it happens, thanks to the value American law places on religious expression, proselytizing on the job is perfectly legal, even in a government workplace, even when it's the boss who is doing the pushing. If the legal aspects of the Christian-workplace phenomenon seem bewildering, it may be because, while the United States has always been a deeply religious nation, until recently it has also been fairly resolute about keeping faith out of the public sphere. Thomas Jefferson's famous metaphor of a wall of separation between church and state has long been a part of the national psyche. The historical reasons for erecting that wall are worth restating. The European experience of the 16th and 17th centuries, the effects of which carried over into the 18th, was of state-sponsored religious warfare, of populations decimated and minorities oppressed in the name of one branch of Christianity or another. Part of the genius and daring of the framers of the American system was in their decision to break with the European tradition of establishing a national church, in their conviction that religion was too combustible a material to be fused with political power.
 You might think that recent religion-inspired violence would result in a renewed conviction to keep religion out of the public sphere, yet just the opposite has been happening. A major response in this country to Islamic terrorism has been a rippling of Christian muscle. In the post-9/11 universe, Christians have become more aggressive in pushing a religious agenda on social issues ranging from gay marriage to stem-cell research. ''The whole war on terror has made evangelicals more politically engaged,'' says Michael Cromartie of the Ethics and Public Policy Center. 
 The workplace-ministry phenomenon, too, seems to have gained momentum since 9/11, but it is also part of the broad trend that began in the 80's with the rise of the Moral Majority and continued at the national political level with the emergence of the Christian Coalition. Many workplace ministries have received legal advice from the public-interest law firm the American Center for Law and Justice, which was founded in 1990 by Pat Robertson ''to undo the damage done by almost a century of liberal thinking and activism.'' In 1990, there were about 50 coalitions of workplace ministries, according to Os Hillman's research; today there are thousands of businesses that, in the words of yet another consortium of workplace ministries, the American Chamber of Christians in Business, have ''Jesus Christ as our chairman of the board.'' And as with the Riverview Community Bank, they aren't restricted to the Bible Belt. Rich Marshall, a marketplace-ministry consultant and the author of ''God@Work,'' crisscrosses the country giving seminars on the topic. The week I spoke to him he was going to be in Los Angeles, El Paso and Rutland, Vt. Two years ago, Don Thomas, a Christian business executive in San Francisco, started looking for like-minded businesses in his famously liberal area with whom his company might ally and says he received ''an overwhelming response.'' There are now 43 organizations in the Bay Area Coalition of Workplace Ministries. 
 The laws governing religion in the workplace are technically fairly clear, but in practice they can be nearly impossible to enforce. While proselytizing is legal, what is forbidden is religious harassment, the creation of a hostile work environment or using religion as a basis for hiring, raises or promotions. Businesses like the Riverview Community Bank are acutely aware of this. Ask Duane Kropuenske about a Christian litmus test for employees, and he practically recites chapter and verse from the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which laid down the law on a wide variety of discrimination. ''I have stressed when I hire people that it's based on their qualifications, and we have no intent to pressure them into any kind of religious experience,'' he says. They might choose to join one of the bank's Bible-study groups or pray with Chuck Ripka, but ''it's not going to have any involvement with their next raise or promotion or that type of thing.'' 
 When I asked Ripka if a Jew or Muslim had ever applied for a job at the bank, his choice of language was a bit odd: ''We don't really have that in our community at this point.'' But his response highlights some of the realities that govern many marketplace ministries. The population of the Otsego-Elk River area is well over 90 percent white and Christian, according to Stephanie Klinzing, the mayor of Elk River (who is herself a charismatic Catholic and an enthusiastic supporter of the bank and other Christian businesses in the community). Besides that, why would a Jew or Muslim or Hindu apply for a job at a business that is known throughout the area to be flamboyantly Christian? So there is a certain self-selecting aspect to a business that wears its faith on its sleeve. 
 Then, too, Ripka added that in its hiring the bank pays no mind to employees' religious backgrounds, and for a reason quite beyond mere legality. ''It doesn't matter where they are in their walk,'' he said. ''In the job interview, I sit down and explain to them that we're doing God's work at our bank. We don't say, 'You have to do this''' -- meaning become as devout as some in the bank are -- ''but we say it's something that will probably happen.'' What you are isn't important, because they hope to make you into something new. 
 It doesn't always work. I spoke with one employee of the bank, who asked that her name not be used, and she told me that while she had been raised Catholic, she did not consider herself part of the bank's Christian culture. ''You will never find me going into Chuck's office to pray,'' she said. On the other hand, she said that the bank was a ''wonderful'' place to work because ''here the people are all nice -- it's a healthy environment.'' Another employee, a young man who until recently worked at a competing bank, also said that while he hasn't given his soul to Jesus, he liked the wholesome atmosphere of Riverview, and that the only downside was having to put up with his former colleagues teasing him about his bosses making him say his prayers before bed. 
 There's a matter of competing rights in all of this. When you apply for a loan, or walk into a grocery store, or take your seat on an airplane, do you have a right to expect a secular atmosphere, uncontaminated by religiosity? Or is the greater right that of the company's owners to express their faith? For a long time, Alaska Airlines has included a prayer card with in-flight meals, a practice that was instituted by a former executive. ''It has received mixed reviews, some people liking it and others writing to tell us they don't appreciate it,'' a spokesman for the airline says. No one has taken the airline to court over it, and in a case of the bottom line trumping all, the prayer cards have largely vanished as in-flight meals have. But the salient point is that under United States law, freedom of religious expression trumps many other rights. 
 A related factor is the surprisingly vague status of the workplace in the eyes of the law. You might think that the establishment clause of the First Amendment forbids religious expression in a federal workplace, but in 1997, President Clinton issued guidelines creating a broad area of religious freedom for federal employees, including the right to evangelize, while forbidding government endorsement of a religion. Curiously, the situation regarding corporations is less clear. Is a bank -- or a restaurant or a factory or a corporate headquarters -- in the public or the private realm? ''The separation of church and state is as firmly established as any doctrine can be, but the separation of corporation and state is not nearly as well defined,'' says Alan Wolfe, director of the Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College. ''An issue like the role of religion in the workplace is fuzzy because we've never defined the public nature of a corporation. And I think many corporations themselves have been confused about how to deal with it.'' 
 Beginning in the 90's, many large corporations were sued by employees who claimed discrimination in hiring and promotions because of race, gender or sexual orientation. In the aftermath, as a vehicle for handling diversity issues, some corporations formed or formalized employee ''affinity groups'' -- complete with bylaws and objectives -- that could meet on company property, often during the lunch hour, and would be given a small budget from the corporation. Some companies included religious groups in their roster of affinity groups; others balked -- apparently confused about how to deal with religion.
 ''Employers thought if they allowed religious expression in the workplace, they would get in trouble legally,'' says Jay Sekulow, the chief counsel for the American Center for Law and Justice. ''It was a knee-jerk response. But the tide has turned, and it's a much more receptive environment today.'' Not everyone is on board, though. General Motors is involved in a lawsuit right now brought by an employee who has demanded the right to form a Christian group under G.M.'s affinity-group program. Coca-Cola, as part of the settlement of a $192 million racial-discrimination suit brought by employees, agreed to establish affinity groups, but religious groups are not among them. There is a Christian group operating within the company, which the workplace-ministry leader Os Hillman points out as an example of the acceptance the movement has won at big corporations, but Coca-Cola begs to differ. ''The Christian group here is almost an underground group, and they're certainly not company sanctioned,'' says Racquel White, a Coca-Cola spokeswoman. ''We don't sanction political or religious groups. What happened was, a number of employee groups popped up after our discrimination suit. They're not supposed to be doing it. Our preference is to stay out of these types of stories. Frankly, we'd rather not even talk to you about it.''
 That kind of corporate thinking seems to be on the way out, however. ''The large corporations tend to be agnostic, not only with respect to religion but everything,'' Alan Wolfe says. ''They don't want to offend anybody who is a potential market. They tend to think of themselves as in the public sphere and to institute policies according to their perception of political correctness.''
Which brings us to the Pacific Northwest. We are in a gray conference room at one of the Oregon campuses of Intel, the world's biggest maker of computer chips. Sixteen engineers and programmers sit around a table during lunch hour, eating pizza and sandwiches from the company cafeteria and discussing the Book of Ruth. William McSpadden, a 43-year-old design engineer, father of five and hardcore weekend soccer coach, leads the Bible study. He describes the 200 or so local participants in the Intel Bible-Based Christian Network as ''about half conservative Christians, even fundamentalists, with the rest being Presbyterians, Methodists, Catholics and the like.'' 
 Intel was in the forefront of public corporations that brought religion into the mix of their employee groups, thanks in part to the fact that one of its corporate heads, Patrick Gelsinger, its chief technology officer, is an evangelical Christian who has written a book on faith and work. The Bible network became an authorized company affinity group in 1997. There are four Bible-study sessions per week here at the Jones Farm campus, where 4,700 of the company's 15,000 employees work, plus special events and a monthly faith-at-work community-outreach gathering at a local Borders. ''When I started at Intel in 1983, we had an informal Bible-study group,'' McSpadden says after the Bible-study meeting as he erases the whiteboard and his colleagues head back to work. ''The company probably didn't even know it was going on. Its being formalized basically makes life easier. It means I can book a conference room without feeling I'm going against company wishes.'' 
 An hour later, in a smaller conference room in which a prayer rug lies angled toward Mecca, 12 men -- members of the Intel Muslim Employee Group -- stream in in ones and twos, go through the ritual motions of prayer, chat with one another for a few minutes, then head back to work. Like the company's 17 other diversity groups, the Muslims get a budget of about $2,300 a year from Intel and a designated space. Mostafa Arifin, a 29-year-old computer engineer from Bangladesh wearing a scruffy beard and an Eddie Bauer T-shirt, says there are about 100 participants in the Muslim group at the Jones Farm campus, nearly all of them men from overseas. Mostly they meet to pray, but occasionally they hold events. After 9/11, they discovered they had a public-education role to play, and they held sessions on Islam in the cafeteria. 
 So this is sort of a best-case scenario of how religion in the workplace is playing out at large companies. Religious groups at Intel are on equal footing with the Parents Group, the Recent College Graduates Group, the Latino Network and the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Group. Yet there remains a slight difference between the Christians and the other religious groups. David Nash, of the Jewish employee group, says his members wouldn't dream of trying to attract other Intel employees to Judaism, and the Muslims say much the same thing. 
 McSpadden says he worried at first that the company would disallow proselytizing: ''We were a little concerned. One of the key tenets of Christianity is evangelism, and if they said Bible study couldn't involve evangelism, that would be difficult for us.'' This is the sort of thing that gives diversity-training professionals headaches. ''There are traps all around this issue,'' says Mauricio Velasquez, C.E.O. of the Diversity Training Group, a consulting agency in Virginia. ''A boss says, 'I was only proselytizing.' And the employee says, 'No, you're excluding me from opportunities because I'm not a Christian.' How do you prove it?'' 
 According to McSpadden, this isn't a problem at Intel. The company allows the Christian group to proselytize, provided it's within the confines of their meetings. And that seems to keep it tidy -- and marginalized. Bernie Dehler, another participant in the Intel Bible-Based Christian Network, notes that the results of their evangelizing efforts are puny. When I was at Intel, bulletin boards in the hallways featured designs advertising an ice cream social sponsored by the Bible network. ''Thousands of people see those signs, and we'll get maybe 30 at the ice cream social,'' Dehler said. And he added cheerfully, ''We're weird, and we know it.'' 
Back in Minnesota, as Chuck Ripka and I were leaving the bank to go to a meeting of local business leaders, a small encounter took place that was treated as so commonplace by everyone involved that I failed to see its significance at first. A couple -- a man in a track suit and a very pregnant woman -- showed up at the bank asking to see Ripka. He greeted them warmly. They looked distressed but hopeful. 
 They were having all sorts of problems. She was about to have her fifth child, and they were short of money: they needed $80,000 right away. The man was in the ministry -- he works with children whose parents are incarcerated -- and the couple's church, which caters to recent immigrants, was on the brink of financial collapse. They weren't coming to Ripka for a loan, however, but for spiritual guidance. They were feeling lost and overwhelmed by all their problems. ''The Lord put it in my mind to come and pray with Chuck today,'' the woman told me, so on the spot they drove the 40 miles to the bank. Ripka prayed with them, asking Christ to give them peace and strength, and the couple were visibly overjoyed by the experience. 
 So there you have a sort of representative, topsy-turvy vignette for this story: a minister and his wife seeking out a mortgage banker for spiritual guidance and gratefully receiving his prayers in the bank parking lot. 
 Ripka then asked the couple to come with us to the meeting we were going to attend. The four of us drove a mile down the road, crossing the Mississippi into the city of Elk River. At a room in the public library, we found 25 men -- they were all men, as it happened -- sitting in a circle on metal chairs and taking turns praying. When Ripka introduced the couple, they were given chairs in the center of the circle, and the men prayed for them and their ministry and family. Then began a series of prayers for the well-being of the community, prayers so intense that some of the men had tears in their eyes. 
 Later I met several of the men for lunch at the Olde Main Eatery downtown. One owns the local fitness center; another runs a heating-oil business. As they talked, their ideas and objectives expanded. It turned out that their group -- Pray Elk River -- is part of a network of municipal officials, ministers and small-business owners across the country that has the goal of winning whole towns over to Christ. One component of that is organizing ''intercessory prayer'' teams. It is the belief of many Christians that targeted, concentrated prayer aimed at a problem can work like a laser to destroy it. Stephanie Klinzing, the mayor, who is part of the group, told me that the purpose of Pray Elk River is to bring together church, government and marketplace leaders to help the community. ''We have a group of intercessors who pray for the town council, for the city, for me as mayor,'' she said. Ripka is part of this. ''When she has difficulties as mayor,'' he said, ''she'll call me and some others and ask us to pray over it.'' It turns out that even before the Riverview Community Bank was built, intercessors were praying over the bare ground where the building would be erected. 
 Rick Heeren -- a businessman and the author of ''Thank God It's Monday!'' -- is the Midwest representative for the national umbrella organization, which is called Harvest Evangelism. He told me that Harvest Evangelism had chosen Elk River as a ''detonator city'' through which, ultimately, the nation will be turned to Jesus Christ. (Other detonator cities include Honolulu and San Jose.) The Pray Elk River group has organized prayer sessions at businesses, in the schools, over the local radio station and at a public ''prayer fair.'' Harvest Evangelism also links small businesses around the country to aid third-world communities in a combined spiritual and economic revival. 
 As Heeren talked, I began to situate Ripka and his bank in a larger picture. At the mega-corporate level, places like Intel and American Express deal with the unwieldy phenomenon of marketplace Christianity by squeezing it into neat, politically correct clothing, but the Riverview Community Banks of the world don't feel the need to conform to a dress code. A lot of people in communities around the country are hungry for the message of Christ's blessing, and small-business leaders are ready to serve their constituencies in this new way, to bring the product to market.
 But as Christianity moves into a broader arena, directly confronting some of the social mores that an open, secular society is built on, it presents a new challenge. A question that will probably be asked as the movement grows is, This is legal, but is it right? Protecting religion and religious expression is one hallmark of American society. Another is protecting minorities. And there is probably no more insidious form of bullying than religion. 
 It's possible, though, that the point will become moot. While marketplace Christianity has the law on its side -- as well as America's deep and historic regard for religious faith -- other forces may work against it. Alan Wolfe says he thinks the phenomenon has a natural limit. Evangelicals and other Christians who are charged to spread the Word in secular society, he argues, face becoming contaminated by that society. Unlike fundamentalists, who withdraw from the secular culture, they engage it, using pop music, books, television and now the workplace to spread their message. But as you do that, the message becomes swamped by the might of the broader culture. Wolfe points to the Coors beer company as an example. ''They used to be known as an evangelical company -- never mind the fact that they were selling beer in the first place, a product that used to be considered a sin -- but as they grew, that spiritual purity changed. Today their television advertisements are almost pornographic.'' The challenge, Wolfe says, is for the workplace ministries to keep their faith pure as they expand. As if on cue, the same day I spoke to Wolfe, Chuck Ripka called to tell me that the Riverview bank was expanding, adding its first branch in the town of Anoka, 10 miles away. 
 There are certainly no signs of Ripka's faith becoming diluted, however. When I first visited the bank, I discovered that besides the chance to spread the Word via this magazine, there was one other thing Ripka wanted from me in exchange for his participation in the article: my soul. He had invited two other marketplace pastors -- a dentist and the owner of a dental laboratory -- to join us in his office. Shortly after we sat down, they began to pray. 
 They prayed for me, for my family, for this article, for the Lord to guide my pen, for The New York Times, for the media in general, for secular society. Then they pulled out a vial and began anointing me with oil -- a practice from early Judaism and Christianity that some Christians today have revived -- and prayed for me all over again. As a result, I can report that having people pray over you feels just fine, like getting praise and a shoulder massage and an offer of help all in one. And as a small personal reflection on the central issue of this article, I'm also prepared to impart how it feels to have a banker, a dentist and a businessman pray for your immortal soul in a bank. It feels weird. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chuck Ripka, a mortgage banker, asking the Lord to help Matt and Jaimie Deboer get a good price for their home.
At Intel, the Muslim, Jewish and Christian groups (left to right) receive the same resources as the Parents Group and the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Group.
 Riverview Community Bank's Tuesday-night Bible-study group: because it's important to keep Jesus in mind when the weekend is over. (Photographs by Alec Soth/Magnum, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CULTS & SECTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); RESTAURANTS (71%) Labor; Christians and Christianity; Church-State Relations; Banks and Banking; Labor

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FAITH AT WORK (84%) Riverview Community Bank (Otsego, Minn)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (54%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Russell Shorto; Billy (Rev) Graham; Os Hillman

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%) SYRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (73%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



696 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: When We Were Wooed

BYLINE: By JOHN FERLING. 
John Ferling is the author of ''Adams vs. Jefferson: The Tumultuous Election of 1800.''

 BODY:
With the presidential election hanging on the outcome of the vote in eight or so swing states, we're approaching America's quadrennial obsession with the Electoral College. New Yorkers often complain that the Electoral College disenfranchises them because nobody bothers to campaign hard in our reliably blue state. 
 Once, however, New York was a swing state. In the most bitterly contested election of American history -- no, it wasn't in 2000, but in 1800, when Thomas Jefferson ran against the incumbent, John Adams -- New York State, particularly New York City, was the battleground that decided the election. 
 Many of the hallmarks of this year's election were present in 1800. The mudslinging and negative campaigning, for example, included attacks on Adams's foreign policy and Jefferson's war record -- his comfortable lifestyle at Monticello during much of the Revolutionary War and his alleged failure as a wartime governor of Virginia. But there were also significant differences between then and now -- perhaps none more important than that in most states, including New York, presidential electors were chosen by the state legislators rather than by direct popular voting. What's more, each elector cast two votes -- for separate candidates. At the time, the Constitution stipulated that the candidate with the most votes, if those constituted a majority, was to be president. The runner-up became vice president. 
 From the outset in the 1800 election, it was widely presumed that New York's vote would be decisive. With 12 electors, New York had a level of clout that was surpassed only by that of Massachusetts (which was certain to give its votes to Adams) and of two Jeffersonian strongholds -- Virginia and Pennsylvania. Adams had carried New York in 1796 en route to winning the presidency by a scant three electoral votes. His re-election depended on winning the state once again.
 Adams's Federalist Party expected to retain its control of the New York State Legislature -- and, thus, its electoral votes -- in the state elections set for April 1800. Indeed, the Republicans, Jefferson's faction, were so despairing of winning a legislative majority that early in the year they proposed that New York change its method of selecting presidential electors. They sought to have the outcome of the popular vote in each district determine the elector for that district, a device through which the Republicans might pick up one or two of the state's electoral votes. But confident of winning control of the Legislature, the Federalists rejected the proposal. 
 This Federalist Party decision to spurn the popular election of electors was one of the great blunders in the history of presidential campaigns. With New York City providing the decisive vote, the Republicans pulled off a stunning upset that gave them a hairsbreadth majority in the State Legislature. 
 In the race for the State Legislature, two things above all else accounted for the Republican victory in New York City. Aaron Burr -- a New Yorker who had been a United States senator and a state assemblyman -- understood the political system better than most of his contemporaries. He sensed that the city's workers, who historically supported the Federalists, were disillusioned and ripe for a change of loyalty. 
 Burr built a well-oiled party apparatus, one of the first in America. He spoke at street rallies, provided food and lodging for party workers who labored around the clock, and selected a slate of celebrity candidates. On Election Day, he sent party activists into the wards to get voters to the polls -- dispatching German-speakers to neighborhoods inhabited by German immigrants, for instance. The Federalists, led by Alexander Hamilton, did not bother with any of these tactics. 
 Burr, who later joined Jefferson on the Republican slate, was correct about the workers' disenchantment. Many had come to see the Federalists as elitists who refused to shake hands with artisans and who looked down on self-made men. To them, the Federalist Party had become the bastion of conservatives who abhorred participatory politics, upheld social traditionalism and were committed to an economy that favored the wealthy -- a party, in short, committed to blocking the changes that middle- and lower-class Americans had hoped would be realized through the American Revolution.
 In April, the Republicans captured all 12 of New York City's seats in the State Legislature, scoring overwhelming victories in the working-class wards of what were then the upper reaches of Manhattan. Their triumph in the city gave them control of the State Legislature. 
 The first lady, Abigail Adams, wrote to her sons that the Republicans had won because they had ''laid their plans with more skill than their opponents.'' She added that ''N York would be the balance'' in the fall's presidential election. She was right. New York's 12 electors cast all their votes for Jefferson and Burr. Of the votes cast by the 138 electors nationwide, 73 went to Jefferson and 73 to Burr. Adams came in third, with 65. All but one of the remaining votes went to Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, the other Federalist candidate. The outcome -- Jefferson as president, Burr as vice president -- was determined by the House of Representatives. 
 For the first time, a sitting president was turned out of office. For the first time, too, a presidential election turned on artful modern politicking -- in a swing state. As Burr explained to his vanquished opponents: ''We have beat you by superior management.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 1800

PERSON: John (1735-1826) Adams; Thomas (1743-1826) Jefferson; John Ferling

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



697 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: No Pay as You Go

 BODY:
The bottom line on mass transit anywhere is that the masses cannot really pay for it. Government subsidies are necessary to keep buses, trains and subways running -- and it's more than worth it, considering the congestion, air pollution and disruptions to the economy that would come if cars became the only method of getting around.
 All that is especially true in the metropolitan New York area. Riders foot more of the costs here than almost anywhere else in the nation. But if the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is required to pay too much of its own way, commuting by rail or express bus will become too expensive for many riders. Drivers will suffer as well, as the competition for parking and highway space increases and the authority raises its bridge tolls through the roof. 
 Washington, Albany, City Hall and the suburbs will have to pay a fairer share of the costs of getting eight million people to work and back. The authority has been sounding warnings about a $436 million deficit next year, and alerting commuters to service cutbacks and fare increases. That deficit could eventually grow to $1 billion or, according to State Comptroller Alan Hevesi, maybe $2 billion.
 The reason for this deep hole is not hard to figure out. Over the last 25 years, the authority has borrowed lots of money to make the subways and trains cleaner and more efficient -- including, most disturbingly, a monster 2000 bond issue to help finance a $17 billion capital maintenance and expansion program. That New Yorkers now enjoy better mass transit is good for everybody. But the authority borrowed more than it could pay back on its own, and the bill is coming due.
 Officials at the authority are already planning to make sure suburban commuters and city straphangers pay their share -- or more -- of the additional costs. Commuter rail ticket prices could go up by about 5 percent, and so could the prices for E-ZPasses, the tolls on bridges and the costs of daily and monthly MetroCards. At the same time, the authority's leadership is talking about cutting or not replacing thousands of workers, mostly on subway and bus lines, including over 350 employees working on the Long Island Rail Road and almost 200 working for Metro-North. 
 So far, however, there have been few helpful offers from President Bush, Gov. George Pataki, Mayor Michael Bloomberg or the State Legislature. That's unacceptable, given the importance of mass transit to the state and regional economy. 
 For starters, the city must increase its contribution to the authority. Mayor David Dinkins, facing financial problems, began cutting the city's contribution, and Rudolph Giuliani and Mr. Bloomberg followed suit. Today's city contribution is one-third of what it was 20 years ago. The suburbs should chip in more for maintenance and other improvements, as should the federal government, not least because of the additional burden the system must bear as a prime terrorist target. Washington requires the authority to have bomb-sniffing dogs , shoulder bigger liability insurance premiums and take other measures. The estimated cost is $500 million, and Washington should pay it.
 Then there's the state. Republicans tend to resist offering more money; Democrats tend to resist making the system more efficient. The parties should switch roles. The Legislature, including suburban lawmakers who oppose consolidating rail lines, must help the authority restructure itself and streamline commuter bus lines. 
 Then there's Mr. Pataki. The governor's appointees, who essentially control the authority, have been willing to let the state off the hook. Mr. Pataki likes to be there when there is good news, like a long stretch without fare increases. Now he is arguing that a fare increase should not be necessary -- without, however, taking steps to solve the problems. That won't work. Unless the state provides more help with mass transit's growing debt, any fare increase will land on the governor's watch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (84%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); BOND ISSUES (64%); BONDS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AIR POLLUTION (57%) Transit Systems; Subways ; Buses; Finances; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Railroads; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



698 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2378 words

HEADLINE: Take My Life, Please

BYLINE: By JAY DIXIT. 
Jay Dixit writes for Rolling Stone, The Washington Post and The Village Voice.

 BODY:
IT'S comedy night at the Parkside Lounge, a dark dive on the Lower East Side, but nobody is laughing.
 The first person to stand up is a dark-haired man wearing a beleaguered expression. He talks about his time in prison and his struggles with manic-depressive illness. ''Depression is so horrible, I only have one word for it: Kevorkian,'' he says. ''Depression is so bad it makes you appreciate pain.''
 A woman with a cherubic face and tight red curls takes her turn. ''I had a bad year last year,'' she says. ''I was totally suicidal, and the worst thing was, I had nobody to address the note to. I was like, 'Dear Everybody Who Hates Me: You win, I'm dead.''' 
 Then a pretty African-American woman stands in front of the group. ''I just got out of an abusive relationship last week,'' she says. ''They said I was fat, worthless, hated my guts, and wanted me to leave. And I was like: 'Look, Mom, I'm 23. You can't abort me now.'''
 It's an open-mike night for stand-up comedians, but it might as well be group therapy or an A.A. meeting. It's the aptly named Tuesday Night Train Wreck at the Parkside Lounge, where aspiring comics show up every week, and, for $7, get to drop their names into an empty beer pitcher. The two M.C.'s draw names, and, one by one, the comics get up on the tiny stage in a dimly lit back room for their hard-won five minutes of stand-up. Most are honing their act or trying out new material. But some are just here for catharsis.
 New York is the world capital of stand-up comedy. Most of the country's top comedians started here, and people still flock from all over the country hoping that comedy will catapult them into sitcom and movie stardom. That makes the city the natural choice for next week's New York Comedy Festival, starting Nov. 9 and featuring comedic heavyweights like Roseanne Barr, Denis Leary and Drew Carey. 
 But of course most aspiring comics don't make it. Many get stuck on the open-mike circuit and never graduate into paid gigs. On some level, comedians know their chances for success are slim. ''They talk about their aspirations, getting a sitcom and making it in show business,'' said Joey Gay, a co-host of the five-year-old Train Wreck. ''But they know it will never come to fruition. They talk about it like they might talk about heaven.''
 The sense of personal failure is rubbed in by the financial structure of an open mike, the funhouse-mirror version of a real comedy club: comedians pay for the privilege of performing while audience members watch without charge. No wonder, then, that New York comedy hinges on self-deprecation, especially at open mikes like these. Many of the comics here talk about race, poverty and porn; almost all talk about drugs, sex and dysfunctional relationships with parents. 
 Comedians often say their jokes come from putting a wisecracking veneer atop tragedy. As Mark Twain observed: ''The secret source of humor itself is not joy but sorrow. There is no humor in heaven.'' But this? This is sorrow without the veneer.

Tuesdays With Maury
 It was almost 8 p.m. when Maury Fogel showed up at Yello, a sleek bar deep in Chinatown that attracts would-be comics from across the city every Tuesday night when it converts its karaoke basement into an open mike.
 The regular M.C. was on vacation, and by 8:30, only five comics were waiting to take their place on a portable wooden stage hauled out of a supply closet. As usual, there was no audience, and the energy level in the room was low. One comedian had just quit his job as a host at Applebee's on Staten Island. The substitute M.C. worked at an office in New Jersey. Another comedian was a student at New York University; this was only his second open mike ever. As they ordered drinks, the comics wondered whether more people would show up. ''What do you think, Maury, should we start?'' one asked.
 The M.C. got up and did a set. Then another comic went up. Mr. Fogel ordered a tea. Finally, he bounded onto the stage. Dressed in black cargo pants, sneakers and a rust-colored fleece, Mr. Fogel looked like an overgrown kid, an effect his salt-and-pepper hair did little to counteract. 
 ''I'm just Maury, that's all I am,'' he began. Then, with a burst of energy, he went on: ''So are you having a good time? Are you happy? Yeah, you're happy, because you're not me!''
 In a New York accent that suggests the nice Jewish boy from Queens that he is, he described the pathos of his life with a strange mix of misery and energy. ''I try to relate to people my age,'' he said. ''They have a house with a mortgage? I have a house with a mother.''
 The punch line was greeted by silence. Mr. Fogel plowed on, undaunted. ''I try to fit in with the kids these days. But I just can't. I try to be hip-hop, but I'm more IHOP.'' He patted his ample paunch. More silence.
 Shuffling back and forth on the four-foot-square stage, he shifted his gaze from person to person. ''I try to be like Puff Daddy, but I'm more like puff pastry.'' Still no response from the crowd. Mr. Fogel was bombing.
 ''O.K., I'll be here all week; try the duck,'' he said miserably, hoping to win sympathy by acknowledging that the crowd was not responding. But the crowd gave him nothing in return.
 ''I just don't fit in,'' he continued. ''I went to a wedding. Somebody thought I was the best man. I told him, I'm not the best man, I'm the worst man. My name is Maury, I'm 43 years old, I live with my mother, I don't have a job, I'm 30 pounds overweight, I'm lactose-intolerant, and I haven't had sex in five years.''
 This was his big climax, his signature line, but it got barely any response.
 Finally, Mr. Fogel plunged into a routine about deciding to throw himself into a volcano because living with his mother was driving him crazy. But by this point he was just going through the motions. His speech became garbled, and he began skipping words. Finally he gave up. 
 ''Oh-kee,'' he sighed, turning to the M.C. ''Come up here and get me out of this.''

'Be Happy You're Not Me'
 As it turns out, Mr. Fogel is just as down on himself in person as he is in his act. His puppy-dog earnestness and his habit of putting himself down suggest that his stage persona is simply an extension of low self-esteem in general.
 He has been doing comedy for 16 years. It's the only thing he does, aside from looking for a day job. Besides traditional open mikes, he has performed at coffee shops, pizza joints, private apartments and rock concerts. Whenever he can afford to, he attends classes at the Comics Studio. Like his open-mike brethren, he nurses the hope of one day becoming a full-time working comedian.
 The material for Mr. Fogel's routines consists entirely of his personal failures. The refrain he repeats between every bit: ''Be happy you're not me, folks.'' 
 Rather than practicing the knowing, ironic comedy made popular by David Letterman and carried on today by the likes of Jon Stewart and Conan O'Brien, Mr. Fogel fuses the borscht-belt sensibility of Henny Youngman with the I-don't-get-no-respect shtick of the late Rodney Dangerfield. ''My act is I make fun of myself,'' he explained one recent afternoon, as he waited in the cold to be let into an open mike in the West Village. ''I came to it because I figured, everybody makes fun of me, I might as well make fun of myself and cut out the middleman.''
 Almost all of what Mr. Fogel says in his act is true. He really doesn't have a job. He really does live with his mother. He really is 30 pounds overweight. He really is lactose-intolerant.
 It's also true that he hasn't had sex in five years. ''I'm not Mr. G.Q.,'' he said. ''I want to get my own place, be my own person, have a girlfriend. But I can't do that now; girls won't go out with me. Besides, I can't bring anyone home with my mom in the next room.''
 Mr. Fogel is a true New Yorker. Aside from summer camp and vacations, he has always lived at home. After John Bowne High School, he went to the DeVry Technical Institute in Woodbridge, N.J., and trained to become an electronics technician. After failing the same three classes twice in a row, he flunked out. He eventually landed a job as a telex operator at Bear Stearns, where he worked for 10 years. But as fax machines and e-mail replaced telexes, there was less and less for him to do. Two years ago, he was laid off, and since then, he has been unemployed.

Their So-Called Lives
 New York is unique for the dozens of comedy classes and open-mike shows available to those willing to pay for them. Most cities have one or two clubs that actually book traveling comedians, but in New York, aspiring comedians can easily do several open-mike shows a night.
 The open-mike circuit is a grind. There's a lot of standing, walking and waiting around. Mr. Fogel goes to open mikes six hours a day, four days a week, spending about $40 a week to make his appearances. He spends two hours a day commuting to and from his home in Flushing, getting to the first club as early as 2:30 p.m. to sign up, and staying out as late as 10. That is in addition to the time he spends writing, practicing his material in front of a mirror, taking classes, and doing speech exercises to improve his diction.
 It's a regimen that occupies as many hours as a full-time job, and one that means giving up any semblance of a normal social life. Aspiring comedians can't go out in the evenings because that's when they're performing. If they work day jobs, they have very little free time. ''I've had no social life, and I forgo tons of money to get on stage for 10 minutes,'' said Deke Haylon, an aspiring stand-up who works part time as a chef for Donald Trump's brother. ''You go over to your friends' house for dinner, and you're like: 'Oh, my God! They have matching glasses!'''
 Taking pain and alchemizing it into something amusing lies at the very heart of comedy. For some comics, it seems as if the worse their lives get, the richer the material becomes.
 ''If I'm happy, and work is going well, and things are going well with my family, then I think, what am I going to talk about?'' said Susan Prekel, a university fund-raiser from Murray Hill who is a regular at the Tuesday Night Train Wreck. ''But that never lasts very long. Things always fall apart soon enough.''
 But sometimes when a comic gets on stage, a curious thing happens. After a spell of tossing out one-liners about drugs or bad breakups, he slips almost unconsciously into a sort of confessional mode.
 That's when the open mike becomes a group therapy session, and the purpose of standing up in front of the group is no longer to practice your material but to share your pain. ''Sometimes you see horribly emotionally wounded people get up and do stuff that does not even resemble stand-up,'' said Mr. Gay of the Train Wreck. ''Some open mikes are like support groups for the black sheep of every family. It's like the Island of the Misfit Toys. Everybody's got something wrong with them, so that becomes their second family.''
 That same therapeutic aspect can get in the way of the putative goal of an open mike: to practice comedy and eventually move on. ''I've seen some pretty fantastic stuff at open mikes,'' Mr. Gay said. ''I once saw a guy go up on stage and put a loaded gun to his head.''
 One woman at the Train Wreck talked about her three-year battle with cocaine addiction without making a single joke. A man handed out pages from his diary. A psychotherapist got on stage and complained at length about how much she hated listening to other people's complaining.

Where Everybody Knows His Name
 Sometimes, Mr. Fogel sets a whole room smiling.
 Twice a month, he is the host of a comedy show that takes place in an unlikely setting -- Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He started the program 11 years ago after a friend encouraged him to sign up for a self-improvement course called ''Self-Expression and Leadership,'' hoping it would help him become more positive about life. The final assignment was to do a project for the community. Mr. Fogel decided to organize a show at a hospital. Sloan-Kettering was the first place he called.
 High on the 15th floor overlooking the Upper East Side, the hospital's recreation room is clean, bright and well appointed, with paintings, a pool table and a foosball table as well as an arts and crafts area, comfortable chairs and plants everywhere.
 Mr. Fogel is looking sharp tonight, dressed up in a gray shirt, a colorful tie, a blazer, pleated pants and black leather sneakers. Also present are five other comedians -- aspiring stand-ups he has met through the open-mike circuit or in classes -- whom he has booked for this event. The stage is just an open area on the green carpet in front of a grand piano, but there's a spotlight and a real microphone.
 ''Hi, folks,'' Mr. Fogel says by way of introduction. ''I want to let you know about a few rules for the comedy show. There's no cover charge, but there's a two-I.V. minimum.''
 The crowd laughs.
 It's a sparse gathering: two middle-aged women in the front row, a pretty young volunteer, a bearded man in a hospital robe in a wheelchair who is here with his wife, and a woman in a gown who is hooked up to an actual I.V.
 ''We're going to make you happy, make you forget about the place,'' Mr. Fogel says. Then he turns the stage over to his colleagues. 
 A comedian named Mark Hertzberg does a routine in which he reveals that his head of hair is a toupee and then makes the toupee talk like a puppet. Then he and Mr. Fogel do a routine in which Mr. Hertzberg sings questions and Mr. Fogel answers in a falsetto. The patients love it.
 After a few more comedians take their turns, Mr. Fogel closes the show by singing a song to the tune of ''That's Amore.'' 
 ''When the girls say no to you, like they always do, that's a-Maury.
 ''When you live with your mother and you're feeling smothered, that's a-Maury.''
 As the patients trickle out, they express their appreciation. ''That was awesome; it really was,'' a patient's husband says. A recreation therapist chimes in: ''The patients really like it. If they're laughing, it really changes them physiologically, and it can have a lasting effect.''
 ''That's why we have this guy,'' Mr. Hertzberg says. ''So the patients can say, I may be really sick, but at least I'm not Maury.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: SHARING THE PAIN -- Maury Fogel, a 16-year veteran of stand-up, during an open-mike session at Yello, in Chinatown. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
TEARS AND BEERS -- Maury Fogel, above right, watching a colleague at a Greenwich Village club
the scene outside the Parkside Lounge on East Houston Street, top, site of the Tuesday Night Train Wreck
and, above, right and far right, the many faces of the open-mike scene. ''Some open mikes are like support groups for the black sheep of every family,'' said Joey Gay, a host of the Train Wreck. ''It's like the Island of the Misfit Toys.''
 Mr. Fogel performing at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. ''No cover charge, but there's a two-I.V. minimum.'' (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPRESSION (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); CELEBRITIES (67%); FESTIVALS (63%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (60%) Comedy and Humor

ORGANIZATION: Parkside Lounge (Nyc)

PERSON: Jay Dixit

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



699 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: OUTLOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1836 words

HEADLINE: In Iraq, U.S. Officials Cite Obstacles to Victory

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Senior American military commanders and civilian officials in Iraq are speaking more candidly about the hurdles that could jeopardize their plans to defeat an adaptive and tenacious insurgency and hold elections in January. 
 Outwardly, they give an upbeat assessment that the counterinsurgency is winnable. But in interviews with 15 of the top American generals, admirals and embassy officials conducted in Iraq in late October, many described risks that could worsen the security situation and derail the political process that they are counting on to help quell the insurgency. 
 Commanders voiced fears that many of Iraq's expanding security forces, soon to be led by largely untested generals, have been penetrated by spies for the insurgents. Reconstruction aid is finally flowing into formerly rebel-held cities like Samarra and other areas, but some officers fear that bureaucratic delays could undermine the aid's calming effects. They also spoke of new American intelligence assessments that show that the insurgents have significantly more fighters -- 8,000 to 12,000 hard-core militants -- and far greater financial resources than previously estimated. 
 Perhaps most disturbing, they said, is the militants' campaign of intimidation to silence thousands of Iraqis and undermine the government through assassinations, kidnappings, beheadings and car bombings. New gangs specializing in hostage-taking are entering Iraq, intelligence reports indicate. 
 ''If we can't stop the intimidation factor, we can't win,'' said Lt. Gen. John F. Sattler, the commander of nearly 40,000 marines and soldiers in western and south-central Iraq, who is drawing up battle plans for a possible showdown with more than 3,000 guerrillas in Falluja and Ramadi, with the hope of destroying the leadership of the national insurgency.
 In some cases, senior officers say, their goals could inadvertently act at cross purposes. For example, Iraq cannot hold meaningful national elections if militants still control major Sunni cities like Falluja. Negotiations there have broken down and many officers predict a military offensive. But hard-line Sunni clerics say they will call for an election boycott if American troops use force to put down the insurrection. 
 ''Getting Sunnis involved in the political process to me is the biggest thing that has to happen to help the security situation,'' said one senior commander. ''If a good portion of Sunnis don't participate, then that may give life to a larger Sunni insurgency. That's worrisome.'' 
 Some pivotal political decisions, including those shaping the election process and setting a time to attack militants in Falluja, rest with Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and his government, leaving American officials in the position, at best, of just trying to influence their outcome. Despite these obstacles, these officers and officials still express optimism that their detailed campaign plan and its military, political and economic elements have provided the blueprint for retaking rebel-held cities and navigating a tumultuous period when violence will undoubtedly intensify as insurgents seek to delay or scuttle the elections. That plan, adopted in August, is refined every two weeks by top American and Iraqi generals.
 ''I'm guardedly optimistic,'' said Brig. Gen. John DeFreitas III, the military's chief intelligence officer in Iraq. ''If you look at Najaf, Tal Afar and Samarra, I think we are having good effects.'' 
 For the first time, military officers also disclosed that the United States could begin withdrawing its 138,000 troops from Iraq in July, if Iraqi security forces have established control and the threats plaguing Iraq now have lessened. ''It's a mark on the wall,'' said one senior officer. 

The Military Answer
 But when pressed in interviews and informal conversations -- mostly not for attribution, because of fear that their more candid remarks could be used as campaign fodder back home -- senior commanders and civilian officials voiced misgivings about how their plans could go awry, reflecting the unpredictability of events in Iraq.
 ''It's a very complex country, and there are many things to worry about,'' said one senior officer. ''But we're trying to work through all the unforeseen results of an insurgency that becomes more robust.'' 
 Senior military officers say they are under no illusion that military might alone will resolve Iraq's problems. At best, using force to retake rebel-held cities will help establish an environment secure enough to allow political and economic programs that will ultimately defeat the insurgency, they say. 
 Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, compares the priorities in Iraq to two giant locomotive engines, one generating new Iraqi security forces, the other producing reconstruction gains, aides say. The two are intended to generate ''irreversible momentum'' that demonstrates to Iraqis and to the American public that steady progress, even if sometimes halting is being made. 
 Each morning General Casey's command briefing includes a slide called ''Drumbeat,'' a detailed compilation of progress made in security, governance and the economy. No accomplishment is too minor for mention, from the opening of a new hospital to the signing of contracts for water projects. General Casey presses his commanders to show that reconstruction projects are under way and ''turning dirt,'' and not just on the books. Right now there are about 700 such projects, with 1,800 scheduled to be under way by year's end, officers said. 
 Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the head of training and equipping Iraqi security forces, has a more colorful analogy. Succeeding in Iraq, he says, is like a cattle drive from Texas to Wyoming in the Old West: the cattle are the myriad tasks that need to be done in Iraq, and American and Iraqi trail bosses are battling insurgent rustlers, treacherous conditions and daunting logistical problems to keep the herd moving. ''I don't think it's too late to succeed, but it's not going to be easy,'' he said. ''The bottom line is, you just have to keep it going.'' 
 The broader context, senior officers and embassy officials say, is for the United States to stay the course and be patient, with the aim of restoring local control to Iraqis and helping to rebuild the security forces and the economy.
 ''We can't lose this one,'' said Maj. Gen. Henry W. Stratman, who as deputy chief of staff for political, military and economic affairs is the military's main liaison with the United States Embassy and Iraqi ministries.

Confronting Intimidation
 The military is measuring its progress against a 43-page document, prosaically titled ''Multinational Force Iraq Campaign Plan: Operation Iraqi Freedom.'' Under this plan, the military uses up to 215 measurements to gauge progress in 15 pivotal cities and 7 smaller towns that must be brought under control before nationwide elections can be held. 
 The measurements are reviewed weekly by senior officials, including 25 military planners nicknamed the Brainiacs, who are responsible for anticipating worst-case situations and proposing possible solutions. Every other week, General Casey and his top aides adjust the measurements to reflect changing dynamics on the ground. 
 ''I see indications to believe the security environment will be sufficient for Iraq to have legitimate elections in January,'' said Maj. Gen. Stephen T. Sargeant, the plan's main author. 
 Officials say General Casey and John D. Negroponte, the United States ambassador in Baghdad, have a close and cordial working relationship, unlike that of their predecessors, Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez and L. Paul Bremer III. ''It's like night and day,'' one senior officer said.
 But senior officers also say there are formidable hurdles ahead. 
 The recent massacre of 49 newly trained Iraqi soldiers in eastern Iraq illustrates the lengths that the insurgents, including former Baathist security forces and followers of the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, will go to terrorize Iraqis who work with the Americans or take part in the new government. 
 Military intelligence in recent weeks has reported the discovery of numerous suicide-bomber vests bound for Baghdad and new kidnapping gangs crossing the border into Iraq. Since the start of the holy month of Ramadan two weeks ago, daily attacks have increased by 30 percent. 
 A job-training program conducted by Navy Seabees near Falluja to teach construction skills to young Iraqis shut down earlier this month when the 30 students stopped coming to work, fearing retaliation. 
 Another casualty of the intimidation campaign is the flow of information from ordinary Iraqis to the military about the location of militants and their arms, including roadside bombs. As rebel-held cities are retaken, commanders say, tips from residents have picked up, but more information is needed. ''Intelligence is still a weakness,'' a senior embassy official said.

The Economic Issues
 Despite the bombings aimed at Iraqi security forces, American commanders say, there is no shortage of fresh recruits, a reflection of the desperate economic straits most Iraqis face. There are now about 100,000 Iraqi security forces trained and equipped, with 45,000 more scheduled to report by the end of the year. 
 Some Iraqi units have performed well in recent fighting, especially some elite Iraqi commando units. Earlier this month, 2,000 Iraqi troops helped American forces retake Samarra. But one Iraqi battalion reported that 300 of its 750 soldiers abandoned the unit before the offensive began Oct. 1.
 American commanders fear that many Iraqi units are penetrated by informants. They are also grappling with cultural differences. With no formal national banking system in place, recruits and other troops need to bring their paychecks home to their families. ''If you have four infantry companies, one is always on leave,'' a senior American officer said. 
 The Americans have ambitious goals. ''By next July, I hope enough of the Iraqi security forces will be trained and equipped that they'll be able to conduct independent counterinsurgency operations, with some support,'' one senior commander said. ''There will still be an insurgency; it's not going to go away. But we're trying to get it down to a lower level, where the Iraqi security forces can deal with it.'' 
 Once militants are driven out of their enclaves, the aim is to rush in economic aid, in large part to win over the civilian population. ''We need to take Iraqis off the streets and give them meaningful jobs so they're holding shovels and hammers, not AK-47's,'' said Charles Hess, director of the Army's Iraq Project and Contracting Office, which oversees $12.6 billion in reconstruction programs. 
 In Samarra, Maj. Gen. John R. Batiste, commander of the Army's First Infantry Division, had a blunt warning for his superiors recently: ''We've got to get these unemployed folks back to work. We have a very small window of opportunity to make this work.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cadets training at the Baghdad Police Academy. Despite intimidation by insurgents, Iraqis are enlisting. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)
Gen. George W. Casey Jr., above, and Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus say security and reconstruction must proceed hand in hand to allow elections in January. (Photo by Christopher Berkey/Associated Press)
 (Pool photo by Nikola Solic)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (94%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (87%); CIVIL WAR (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BOYCOTTS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Elections; Bombs and Explosives; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Terrorism; Kidnapping; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%) Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



700 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2204 words

HEADLINE: Want to Invest? Join the Club.

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
AS a mortgage broker, Richard Banach helped many investors finance real estate deals over the years, but when it came to his own money, he stayed mostly with stocks, a strategy he has grown to regret. ''I've seen people with marginal credit and modest means making big money in real estate,'' he said, while he has watched his technology-heavy portfolio swell, then shrivel. 
 Now ''totally out of stocks,'' Mr. Banach, 46, who lives in Glen Head, N.Y., said he will focus on real estate. While he has the advantage of knowing something about buying property, he realizes that finding good deals won't be easy in a still-rising market crammed with other stock market refugees. So last year he joined the Long Island Investors Group, a club that serves both as an informal repository of information about properties for sale and as a support group. 
 The nonprofit club offers him the chance to network with other members at social events or at the monthly meetings at the Marriott Hotel in Melville, attend workshops on ''ugly houses,'' or even go on field trips. The group doesn't invest collectively, as stock investment clubs do, though it does encourage independent partnerships. 
 Already, he has made some valuable connections. ''I have a couple of possibilities in the pipeline,'' said Mr. Banach, who is looking to use his professional expertise to buy individual homes and finance larger residential projects. 
 Real estate groups have been around in one form or another for years, though interest in them has shot up recently, in response to the volatility on Wall Street as well as the rising home prices on Main Street. There are at least a dozen clubs in the tristate region alone, and many of them, like the Garden State Real Estate Investors Association, the Greater Westchester Real Estate Investors Association and the Connecticut Real Estate Investors Association, were created in just the last three years. 
 By contrast, stock investment club membership has dwindled, with the number of clubs declining 43 percent since 1998, a peak year, according to the National Association of Investors Corporation in Madison Heights, Mich.
 ''People are looking for another way to invest, and real estate remains a hot topic,'' said Rebecca McLean, the executive director of the National Real Estate Investors Association in Covington, Ky., which promotes a code of ethics for investors and provides services to clubs like product discounts and newsletters. There are 157 nonprofit clubs, with 20,000 members, affiliated with the professional group, up from 88 clubs, and 14,000 members, a year ago, although Ms. McLean is quick to point out that they represent only about a quarter of all the real estate investment clubs in existence. 
 ''What our clubs try to do,'' she said, ''is help people make informed decisions about investing. Some do become millionaires, but it doesn't happen overnight.''
 Those starting out must first learn the ropes and understand the risks, and that takes time -- usually 6 to 18 months, on average, before most people absorb enough information to feel comfortable initiating their first deals, said Dan Schwartz, the vice president for the 300-member Metropolitan Real Estate Investors Association in Kenilworth, N.J., which has been around for 22 years. The club guides new members along in the process through ''mentoring breakfasts'' and speaker meetings that cover the basics. ''Our program is a get-rich-slow program,'' he said. 
 Newcomers accustomed to investing in stocks, in fact, will have to get used to a more hands-on approach to investing -- not to mention learn a whole new vernacular. 
 While investing in stocks involves some work -- you may scour a company's income report or research the price-to-earnings ratio -- there's little else to do once shares are bought except decide when to sell. Investing in real estate, on the other hand, may mean walking around neighborhoods in search of ''motivated'' sellers with ''junkers'' (in other words, people eager to dump properties that are in bad shape) in order to ''rehab'' and ''flip'' them (fix them up and sell them quickly for a profit). Then there are opportunities to ''bird dog'' (or let other investors know about specific properties and collect a finder's fee on their deals). Looking for ''positive cash flow''? There are multifamily rental homes to invest in. For the more passive investor, tax-lien certificates sold at auction might work (that's when you buy the right to repossess other people's homes if they don't pay their property taxes). 
 Some investors will rely mainly on real estate brokers to help them find properties, especially those outside their communities, while others prefer to look for deals themselves.
 On a recent field trip to Jersey City and Ridgefield Park, N.J., about 50 members of the Garden State Real Estate Investors Association got some firsthand lessons in rehabbing. Traveling by chartered bus, the group spent nearly six hours touring investment properties, all owned by other club members and in various stages of repair, then returned to the club's headquarters in Maplewood for some classroom lessons. 
 ''We've been careful about maintaining the original moldings and design,'' said Marcia O'Connor, 43, owner of the three-bedroom, one-bath house in Jersey City that was one of the stops on the tour. ''We used to do a lot of the renovations ourselves in the beginning, and now we can afford to hire people to do the work.'' 
 Mrs. O'Connor said that she and her husband, Michael, 41, with whom she invests in real estate full time, expect to spend about $40,000 to fix up the kitchen and bathroom and install exterior aluminum siding and a new roof. The couple paid $135,000 for the 50-year-old house in July -- ''We purchased it from another investor, who bought it at a foreclosure sale and pocketed about $30,000,'' she said -- and expect to put it on the market before the end of the year for around $250,000. 
 One of the best things about being in a club, said Mrs. O'Connor, who lives in Secaucus, is the access it provides to reliable contractors, suppliers and other skilled people. Some professionals, like lawyers, accountants and contractors, a few of whom may be members themselves, offer club or group discounts. (Mr. Banach, the mortgage broker, has even gotten some extra business.) ''We do share contractors,'' Ms. O'Connor said, ''and we'll warn each other, too.'' 
 It is this camaraderie that is the cornerstone of a successful club. Investing ''can be an isolating experience,'' said Barbara A. Karnes, who is executive director and co-founder of the Long Island Investors Group, which started more than four years ago and now has 450 members. While club newcomers get support and guidance from the more experienced members -- like, say, tips on setting up a limited liability company to protect personal assets or even leads on available properties -- the experienced investors, in turn, get future business partners, or in some cases, buyers for the coaching services they might be offering independently. 
 Many clubs provide access to these products on their Web sites or through the real estate ''gurus'' invited to speak at meetings, but most don't aggressively promote them. John T. Reed, publisher of the Real Estate Investor's Monthly newsletter in Alamo, Calif., warns newcomers to be wary of the clubs that do. ''In the early 80's a bunch of bogus gurus used to own clubs -- like the 'nothing down' club -- and their motives were solely to promote their own businesses,'' he said. ''There are still some clubs that are run by people whose motives are selfish.'' But, he added, ''most are good people.''
 Wesley Barney, the president and founder of the Ultimate Investors Real Estate Club of Flushing, Queens, said his main goal right now is to help the club's 275 members find affordable properties. ''The real estate market in New York City has appreciated so much that many people just can't afford it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Barney, a former New York City Fire Department inspector who became a full-time investor five years ago, said he sees opportunities in up-and-coming areas like Kansas City, Mo., Biloxi, Miss., and upstate New York. He recently found a six-family rental building for $66,000 in a Syracuse neighborhood that he said is turning around. 
 At the club's Oct. 7 meeting, held at the New Yorker Hotel, at Eighth Avenue and 34th Street, Mr. Barney invited two real estate brokers, Fred and Betty Danbach of Syracuse, to talk about buying in their hometown. 
 ''Syracuse has been a well-kept secret for years,'' Mr. Danbach told a diverse audience of 70, whose dress ranged from business attire to blue jeans. ''It's very undervalued. But the market is changing dramatically, and after the first of the year, it's going to explode.''
 Mr. Danbach said Syracuse's economy, which lost manufacturing jobs over the years, is poised to rebound, thanks, in part, to major development plans for the city. 
 Myrna Ortiz, 38, a technical support specialist from Ozone Park, Queens, is banking on this turnaround. She said she recently bought a newly renovated seven-family brick building in Syracuse, for $240,000, and now is looking for more investment property there, which was why she was at the meeting. (After her mortgage and other expenses are paid, she expects to clear about $1,000 a month.) ''I'm looking to create positive cash flow and the highest rate of return,'' she said. ''I want to improve my lifestyle -- I don't want to work in the rat race for the rest of my life.''
 Seated up front, Joe Guilfu, 44, a transportation analyst from Park Slope, Brooklyn, seemed a bit more tentative about investing. ''There's probably more opportunity in real estate'' than in stocks, he said, though he admitted that he doesn't own any property yet, not even his personal residence.
 Some club members may never take the plunge, largely out of fear of losing money. In the Long Island Investors Group, ''60 percent of the members are active seasoned investors,'' Ms. Karnes said. ''Twenty percent have never done a deal, and they probably never will.'' By several accounts, membership turnover rates run around 5 percent to 30 percent per club each year. 
 ''I've seen a lot of people have a bad experience, but oftentimes it's because of their failure to educate themselves about the industry,'' said Tony Reaves, a co-founder of the Garden State Real Estate Investors Association, who invests full time with his wife, Patricia, the group's president.
 Mr. Barney, who admits to taking a few ''hits'' himself when he started out about 20 years ago, agreed. ''Contrary to what you may hear about real estate, there are risks,'' he said. ''You must invest in education, or it could financially ruin you.''
 He said the clubs help to teach members all the basics: how to find properties, how to fix them up and estimate renovation costs, how to sell them or turn them into rental units, and how to understand some of the laws and tax regulations that affect property owners. 
 Mr. Banach, the mortgage broker from Long Island, seems to be finding these things out on his own. Although he hasn't lost any money, he says he has run across some potential problems in his quest to find the right deal. ''I was in one contract, a foreclosure in the Bronx, but it fell through,'' he said. ''Another deal was presented to me, but I was suspicious about a signature that did not match.'' But he isn't giving up. ''I think there are a lot of interesting opportunities out there,'' he said, explaining that he may join with a builder he knows to buy seven houses in Freeport for $1.5 million, tear them down and build higher-end homes and sell them for a profit.
 Finding opportunities gets easier with time and experience, said JoAnne Brissette, the founder and executive director of the 1,000-member Connecticut Real Estate Investors Association. She advises new club members to attend at least one meeting a month and pick up at least one new idea that they can store away for future use -- and to keep an open mind.
 ''I myself see things differently now,'' she said. ''When I drive home and see a cute little home with an uncut lawn that is not being cared for, I see a potential opportunity.''

Choosing the Right Investment Group
 ANNUAL dues for real estate clubs range from about $75 to $250; some have discounts for couples. 
 Here are some tips for finding the best one:
 The National Association of Real Estate Investors keeps a list of affiliated clubs on its Web site,nationalreia.com. Click on ''groups,'' then the appropriate state.
 Check out each group's Web site. They will usually contain information about the group's mission, as well as its history, size and calendar of events. Some also have chat rooms or property listings.
 Sit in on a few meetings and talk to club members -- you'll get a sense about a group's philosophy and goals. Many clubs allow nonmembers to attend monthly meetings, subgroups or workshops for a guest fee, usually around $25. 
 Ask about mentoring programs. These are important ways to network with the more seasoned investor who can show you the ropes. 
 Avoid clubs that aggressively promote products, courses and services.


GRAPHIC: Photos: TEACHING AND LEARNING -- Glenn Gallucci, above, shows a ''before'' photo of one of his investment properties in Jersey City to members of the GSRE Investors Association, which was touring properties. Top, Ritchie Bevans, left, and Wallen Kessler of the Long Island Investors Group. (Photos by top, Kirk Condyles for The New York Times
above, Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
ALWAYS ON THE LOOKOUT -- Tony Reaves, left, talked to Amerood Ali, right, about potentially buying this multifamily house in Jersey City.
THE NITTY GRITTY -- Paulette Benjamin, above left, and Michael Jesser look over a house being renovated in Jersey City. Left, Myrna Ortiz asks a question during the Ultimate Investors Real Estate Club meeting in New York. (Photographs by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ETHICS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); HOME PRICES (66%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (58%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ethics; Housing

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: National Real Estate Investors Assn

TICKER: RLE (LSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (82%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (82%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (82%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (82%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



701 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Artists at Play, Debunking Sexual and Cultural Stereotypes

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
SOMETIMES, tracking contemporary art across north Connecticut can be just as stimulating as, say, doing the rounds of Chelsea art galleries on New York's west side. Right now, dedicated viewers can make a trail from Laura Carton's downloaded domestic pleasure-domes at Real Art Ways in Hartford, to Olu Oguibe's mini-retrospective at the Contemporary Art Galleries at the University of Connecticut in Storrs. This is full-strength stuff.
 Ms. Carton, 36, downloads onto her computer pornographic images from the Internet, removes the writhing bodies, and then digitally reconstructs the backgrounds. Outputted as glossy photographs, the images depict standard pornographic cliches (the convent, the school, the public toilet) and a few specialty fantasy sites (the abandoned building, the graveyard). But shorn of buffed, blow-dried actors, they lose their practical function and become open-ended. Your imagination does the rest. 
 Ms. Carton is not the only contemporary artist to fall under porn's sway. But unlike her mostly male peers, who often show graphic sexual activity, Ms. Carton believes the suggestion of sex can be more titillating than depictions of the real thing. Her eerie photographs only hint at erotic activity. 
 Each of the photographs is titled after the Web site from which the image was lifted. Although few read as obviously pornographic, many contain subliminal sexual messages. Note, for instance, a gentleman's hat on the floor of a picture of a men's public urinal, or a golf ball ambling toward a flagless hole on a miniature golf course green. This last image arrives courtesy of an explicit gay male Web site, best limited to a knowing few. No prizes for guessing the symbolism there.
 What's particularly alluring about these images is the way they implicate the viewer in the missing action. Writing about the photographs, the curator of the show, Steven Holmes, notes that ''in order to complete the experience of looking at these images, the viewer has to replace what Carton removed.'' This can be an unnerving experience, especially when confronted with some of the more unusual backgrounds -- a barbershop, a graveyard or, rather more frighteningly, a handsome white steed in a beachside paddock. Yikes. 
 One problem with Ms. Carton's photographs is the image quality. Because she lifts her pictures directly off the Internet, she has no control over their size and density, giving her little latitude to alter or blow them up without significant image degradation. The result is often blurry, slightly pixilated photographs, which I'm guessing would be even more captivating and creepy if we could see them with the kind of precision and clarity that is often found on the Internet. This is a genuine formal challenge. 
 While Ms. Carton trades in sexual cliches, Mr. Oguibe deals with racial and cultural stereotypes. Born in Nigeria in 1964, he moved to London as a political refugee in 1989 before decamping for New York in 1995. Now based in Storrs, where he teaches at the university, his work is largely socially driven with a core interest in popular depictions of Africa, Africans and African-Americans. He also carries on a parallel practice as a writer, poet and art historian, and has written several books.
 Viewers addicted to sound bites and overnight polls may have trouble mustering the patience Mr. Oguibe's artworks require. Simply put, they take some reading. But for those with the time, a conceptual bent, a commitment to social justice and greater economic fairness among nations, then this exhibition has much to offer. It is also a tidy summation of Mr. Oguibe's artistic activities over the past few years, ranging from ceramics, painting and photography to sculpture and installation.
 Among the more accessible pieces is ''Ethnographia 2.1'' (2000), a witty wall installation of 22 drawings with text supposedly produced by a character traveling in late 19th-century America. The material, concocted by the artist, details encounters with various ethnic and religious groups -- Quakers, Irish -- along with the traveler's surprise at American social mores and local customs. It's all about the opacity of cultural difference and how misunderstanding can lead to skewed representations of others.
 Ideas of misunderstanding, place, voice, social justice and loss recur throughout these works. A nearby installation consists of a Bible with a page torn out, rewritten and then replaced to reflect African history and contemporary aspirations, while another mocks the G8 group of industrialized nations as a self-serving club mindlessly directing the fate of millions in impoverished nations.
 Unsettling as all this might seem, the bark of these slick, aesthetic-minded works is far bigger than their bite.
 ''Laura Carton'' is at Real Art Ways, 56 Arbor Street, Hartford, through Nov. 15. Information: (860)232-1006 or www.realartways.org. ''Olu Oguibe, An Introspective'' is at the Contemporary Art Galleries, UConn, 30 Bolton Road, Storrs, through Nov. 12. Information: (860)486-1511.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Olu Oguibe's print ''Bridge(Triptych)'' is on display at the University of Connecticut in Storrs. Mr. Oguibe teaches at the university.
 Real Art Ways in Hartford is featuring photographs by Laura Carton. She downloads pornographic images and removes the writhing bodies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); GOLF (69%); RACE & RACISM (60%) Photography; Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%) University of Connecticut; Real Art Ways (Hartford, Conn)

PERSON: Benjamin Genocchio; Laura Carton; Olu Oguibe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



702 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Need for Draft Is Dismissed By Officials At Pentagon

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Rumors of a secret plan to reinstate the draft are churning across the Internet, worrying some in Congress and even coloring the presidential campaign, but senior Pentagon personnel officials and Army officers insist that there is no need for a draft -- and that they do not want one, either. 
 To counter public fears that conscription is returning, these officials produced internal studies to illustrate the economic and demographic reasons why a draft is not necessary, and why it would be a step backward for the quality of the current all-volunteer force.
 Army and Pentagon officials hope that efforts under way to reorganize the service to form at least 43 combat brigades from today's 33 will create additional deployable units and alleviate the stress on the Army. And as both the Air Force and Navy shrink their personnel rosters, some of those departing personnel are being courted by the Army in a program that also serves as antidote to the draft. 
 If a decision is made that the American military should grow, then the Pentagon could ask Congress to finance a permanent expansion in personnel, including enough money to attract recruits and retain those in uniform without undercutting accounts for operations and weapons systems.
 Officials note that Congressional proposals for expanding the military, mostly in the range of 30,000 to 40,000 more troops, would hardly require a new draft to force conscripts from across the approximately two-million-strong cohort of current 18-year-old Americans.
 In fact, the demographics of America are cited by Pentagon officials as a major reason why the draft makes no sense today.
 The Pentagon's top personnel officer, David S.C. Chu, said the size of today's military -- 1.4 million in the active component, and 1.2 million in the National Guard and Reserve -- is a much smaller percentage of a much larger pool of possible recruits than the United States faced during World War II and into the 1950's.
 And since the military could not possibly absorb all the 18-year-olds in the population should a draft be reinstated, there is little doubt that a system of deferrals would be established that, just as in the Vietnam era, could create a caste-like system separating the privileged of America from the others.
 ''What do you do when not all need to be called and only a few are chosen?'' said Mr. Chu, who is under secretary of defense for personnel and readiness. ''It becomes a question of fairness.''
 Today's high-technology military also benefits from personnel who are committed to staying in the service for several years, allowing the armed services to reap full benefit from their costly training. During the draft, soldiers were required to stay in the service for only two years. But Pentagon studies show that current recruits need one to three years to reach full competency in combat or support skills.
 A study by Mr. Chu's office makes that point in arguing against reinstating a draft that was allowed to lapse on July 1, 1973.
 ''Draftees quit early; volunteers stay -- so today's midgrade and senior noncommissioned officers are well experienced,'' said the study, written by Bill Carr, deputy under secretary for military personnel policy.
 ''During the most recent draft, 90 percent of conscripts quit after their initial two-year hitch, whereas retention of volunteers is five times better -- about half remain after their initial (normally four-year) military service obligation,'' said the study, which was published in the spring 2004 edition of ''World Defense Systems,'' a military journal.
 Those statistics may not be persuasive to those who believe the United States is poised for a broader array of offensive military operations against other adversaries that would require a draft, nor to those who feel that a program of required national service would benefit the nation and America's 18-year-olds.
 But senior officers stress that the all-volunteer military is also more competent, better educated and more disciplined than in the final years of the draft.
 ''I served in the draftee Army,'' said Gen. Richard A. Cody, who is now vice chief of staff for the Army, the service most under stress from worldwide deployments.
 ''Those soldiers were just as loyal as today,'' he said. ''But it was like Forrest Gump. You know, 'Life is like a box of chocolates.' With conscripts, you never know what you're going to get.''
 General Cody said the strain to meet current global commitments cannot be minimized -- nor the strain to meet recruiting goals. But he said the young men and women who signed up today were of a higher quality than any he had seen in 29 years of command.
 ''I don't have rose-colored glasses on,'' General Cody said. ''But we don't need the draft and we don't want the draft. There are plenty of Americans who still want to be in the military.''
 Perhaps the most often-cited reason for opposition to a draft is the motivation of the all-volunteer force.
 ''The most important thing about a draft is that the people you draft, by definition, don't all want to be there,'' Mr. Chu said. ''The great strength of the volunteer force is the ranks of people who all made a positive, voluntary decision that this is what they want to do.''
 The current American military ''is also smarter than the general population'' from which conscripts would be drawn, according to the study by Mr. Chu's office. ''Over 90 percent of new recruits have a high school diploma, while only 75 percent of the American youth do; 67 percent score in the upper half of the enlistment (math/verbal aptitude) test,'' it stated.
 ''These attributes translate to lower attrition, faster training and higher performance,'' it concluded. 
 Mr. Chu said that studies of the military also showed that the all-volunteer force had fewer disciplinary problems than a draftee service.
 ''All that comes together in the performance of the force in the field, which is the ultimate test,'' Mr. Chu said. ''How does this force fight? How well does it carry out the nation's objectives? How disciplined is it in the face of challenges? I don't think anyone can look at the events of the three-plus years since 9/11 and not see the payoff in the volunteer force.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: With the military struggling to meet recruiting numbers, Gen. Richard Cody of the Army spoke to recruits in Times Square this month. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); AIR FORCES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Reserves (Military); Draft and Recruitment (Military); Volunteers; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%) Defense Department; National Guard (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



703 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: For Teenagers, Talk of a Draft Is Chilling

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
AT dinner tables, in Boy Scout meetings, on chat rooms, in e-mail messages and on the phone, teenagers around the state are talking about a topic that hasn't been seriously discussed in Connecticut homes for more than 30 years. It is forced military conscription, otherwise known as the draft.
 In Suffield, Sean McGuinness, 17, talked it over with other Boy Scouts weeks ago, to get a sense of what his friends would do if drafted. At the private Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Vaughan Read, 17, started an online chat room in the spring on the topic. And in East Windsor, Alex Grant, 15, who is related to Ulysses S. Grant, must think about the draft from a perspective like none of his peers.
 ''If I were to be drafted, I would probably do other things than battle,'' said Alex, a sophomore at East Windsor High School. ''I would go for conscientious objector status. U.S. Grant is a relative of mine, but it doesn't mean I'm for war because he was a military man.'' 
 At ages when teenagers are commonly concentrating on school, flirting, thinking about college and following the World Series, the draft is a grownup concern that they are sharing with their teachers, their parents and each other. And with teenagers, talk breeds more talk.
 They dissect comments made by Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense, wondering if he is hinting about restarting the draft. They tell stories about Army Reserve units that are serving longer in Iraq than originally planned, telling each other that proves that the military doesn't have enough soldiers and that a draft could be coming. Many students even knew the status and the names (H.R. 163 and S. 89) of Congressional bills that would reinstate the draft. 
 ''After that vote, the draft, which had been a concern, became almost a moot point with the students,'' said Michael Harrigan, the chairman of East Windsor's social studies department, referring to the defeat of the House bill. ''They said, 'Hey, the House of Representatives voted it down overwhelmingly,' and they obviously felt relief. But then the skeptics said, 'Well, it's 30 days before an election, so who is going to vote for that?' So the students realized the timing of the vote did not give a true picture of how our politicians may feel. I have found students are more skeptical these days.''
 The Horatio Alger Association of Distinguished Americans, a national nonprofit educational group in Virginia, asked more than 1,000 students this year whether they thought they would have to serve in the military. About 55 percent said yes.
 ''It's been a topic that most of my buddies have talked about,'' said Sean McGuinness, a Boy Scout who is a senior at Suffield High School. ''Economically and diplomatically, the way things are going right now, the odds of having a draft will be increased.'' 
 Rebecca Brown, 15, a sophomore at East Windsor, said her father is a veteran.
 ''My father served in Korea during the Vietnam War,'' she said. ''He had horrific stories. Now I'm worried about my brother, who spent four years in the Coast Guard, getting a call. He's 23, and he's living at home now.'' 
 At the Hotchkiss School, an online chat room, the Hotchkiss View, became a popular outlet for student's draft-related opinions. Vaughan Read, a senior, decided to create the Internet forum after students began discussing the issue in the cafeteria.
 ''My dad and his friends compared draft numbers during the Vietnam era the way my friends and I compare SAT scores,'' Vaughan said. ''I don't know if kids are taking it that seriously. But I kind of think a draft would make us as Americans more serious about what conflicts we choose to join. If you knew it would be your life or your son's or daughter's life that would be sacrificed, it might change your view.''
 Liz Paonessa, 16, a junior in the Civics and Law class taught by Leslie Traver at Lyme-Old Lyme High School, said she could not imagine going to war.
 ''None of my friends were at all interested in a draft, and I would definitely freak out if I were drafted,'' she said. ''I could just never see myself fighting in any way.''
 Other students said that, barring a deferment, they would go to war. ''I'd do it if I had to,'' said Meg Carley, 17, a senior at Darien High School. ''I'd only do it because it's the honorable thing to do.'' 
 Standing in the hall across from the guidance office at East Windsor High, David Hastings, the senior class president, said he had been discussing a draft with friends and teachers for some time.
 ''I hate the notion of going to war,'' he said. ''But if I was forced to go, I'd go. My friends said they'd go, too.''
 In other schools, like North Haven High School, the topic has hardly come up, said Lou Preziosi, an assistant principal. He is a volunteer registrar with the Selective Service. There are 116 volunteer registrars working in Connecticut schools, from administrators to teachers and guidance counselors. Mr. Preziosi and the school's career resource director, Robert Iverson, hung informational posters about Selective Service requirements at the school. They informed students at the annual senior assembly that they must register with the Selective Service. (Males are required to do so within 30 days of turning 18.) They delivered announcements over the school's intercom to remind students.
 ''I don't think it has hit home that the draft is even a possibility here, while the students are under the umbrella and safety of the high school,'' Mr. Preziosi said. ''They are hearing that candidates are saying there will not be a draft; maybe they are believing it.''
 Since 1973 and the elimination of the draft, the armed forces have relied on recruitment. Five high schools in Connecticut have centers for the Junior Reserved Officers Training Corps in their buildings: Bloomfield High, Crosby High in Waterbury, James Hillhouse High in New Haven, Westhill High in Stamford, and New Britain High. The number of recruits for the active Army, as opposed to the Army Reserve, from Connecticut for the past four years has averaged about 585, according to the United States Army Recruiting Command. The average for the Army Reserve is about 265.
 ''We met our fiscal year 2004 recruiting mission, so we're good to go,'' Doug Smith, a spokesman for the command, said about national recruitment. 
 United States Representative John Larson, a Democrat from East Hartford who is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, and 41 other members of the House, sent a letter recently to the Government Accountability Office asking for a study of recruiting and retention efforts in the armed forces. The letter mentioned that the National Guard had fallen short in its recruiting goals and pressed the point that it was looking like the armed forces were short on manpower. 
 ''Congressman Larson has always said he is opposed to a draft, and there is no official draft,'' said Michael Kirk, a spokesman for Mr. Larson. ''The president and the administration have taken steps to keep a lot of people in the military -- stop-loss orders, calling back members of the reserves who are retired military -- and these are measures that underscore the fact that our military is stretched very thin. So the legislators are trying to get to the root of the problem.'' 
 David Greenberg, an assistant professor of journalism, media studies and history at Rutgers University in New Jersey, has studied the historical opposition to the draft and said Americans rarely have embraced one.
 ''I don't think there will be a draft this time because it is politically unpopular,'' he said. ''For most of American history, we have not had a draft. Popular objections carried the day.'' 
 If Mr. Greenberg is right, the letters and e-mail messages that have been delivered to legislators may hold some sway. About 300 of them had arrived at the offices of United States Representative Rob Simmons by Oct. 21, about 300 at Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's Washington office, about 200 to Mr. Larson. Many of the letters were from teenagers.
 Rosa DeLauro, the representative for the Third District, said in an e-mail message, ''Rumors of the draft spread through my district, prompting many teenagers, their parents and loved ones to contact me with their fears.'' 
 At the McGuinness house in Suffield, emotions were varied. Vikki McGuinness, Sean McGuinness's mother, saw friends leave for Vietnam when she was a teenager.
 ''I remember the riots on TV and all the protests,'' Mrs. McGuinness said. ''It is scary to think my son might have to sign up for a draft.''
 Sean said he knows his parents are concerned for his safety. ''My father doesn't want me to go into it, neither does my mother, and personally, I don't know if I'm comfortable with a draft,'' he said. ''But if it happened, I would go, as long as my parents don't send me to Canada first.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The war in Iraq is prompting teenagers to talk about the draft. Alex Grant, 15, who is related to Ulysses S. Grant, said he would go for conscientious objector status if he were drafted. (Photo by M.J. Fiedler for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Michael Harrigan of East Windsor High School leading a discussion of the draft in his social studies class. (Photo by M.J. Fiedler for The New York Times)
 Meg Carley, 17, a senior at Darien High School, said she'd go to war if called. ''I'd only do it because it's the honorable thing to do,'' she said. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHAT ROOMS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARMIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); POLITICS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



704 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: When We Were Wooed

BYLINE: By JOHN FERLING. 
John Ferling is the author of ''Adams vs. Jefferson: The Tumultuous Election of 1800.''

 BODY:
With the presidential election hanging on the outcome of the vote in eight or so swing states, we're approaching America's quadrennial obsession with the Electoral College. New Yorkers often complain that the Electoral College disenfranchises them because nobody bothers to campaign hard in our reliably blue state. 
 Once, however, New York was a swing state. In the most bitterly contested election of American history -- no, it wasn't in 2000, but in 1800, when Thomas Jefferson ran against the incumbent, John Adams -- New York State, particularly New York City, was the battleground that decided the election. 
 Many of the hallmarks of this year's election were present in 1800. The mudslinging and negative campaigning, for example, included attacks on Adams's foreign policy and Jefferson's war record -- his comfortable lifestyle at Monticello during much of the Revolutionary War and his alleged failure as a wartime governor of Virginia. But there were also significant differences between then and now -- perhaps none more important than that in most states, including New York, presidential electors were chosen by the state legislators rather than by direct popular voting. What's more, each elector cast two votes -- for separate candidates. At the time, the Constitution stipulated that the candidate with the most votes, if those constituted a majority, was to be president. The runner-up became vice president. 
 From the outset in the 1800 election, it was widely presumed that New York's vote would be decisive. With 12 electors, New York had a level of clout that was surpassed only by that of Massachusetts (which was certain to give its votes to Adams) and of two Jeffersonian strongholds -- Virginia and Pennsylvania. Adams had carried New York in 1796 en route to winning the presidency by a scant three electoral votes. His re-election depended on winning the state once again.
 Adams's Federalist Party expected to retain its control of the New York State Legislature -- and, thus, its electoral votes -- in the state elections set for April 1800. Indeed, the Republicans, Jefferson's faction, were so despairing of winning a legislative majority that early in the year they proposed that New York change its method of selecting presidential electors. They sought to have the outcome of the popular vote in each district determine the elector for that district, a device through which the Republicans might pick up one or two of the state's electoral votes. But confident of winning control of the Legislature -- a victory that would enable them to name all 12 electors -- the Federalists rejected the proposal. 
 This Federalist Party decision to spurn the popular election of electors was one of the great blunders in the history of presidential campaigns. With New York City providing the decisive vote, the Republicans pulled off a stunning upset that gave them a hairsbreadth majority in the State Legislature. 
 In the race for the State Legislature, two things above all else accounted for the Republican victory in New York City. Aaron Burr -- a New Yorker who had been a United States senator and a state assemblyman -- understood the political system better than most of his contemporaries. He sensed that the city's workers, who historically supported the Federalists, were disillusioned and ripe for a change of loyalty. 
 Burr built a well-oiled party apparatus, one of the first in America. He spoke at street rallies, provided food and lodging for party workers who labored around the clock, and selected a slate of celebrity candidates. On Election Day, he sent party activists into the wards to get voters to the polls -- dispatching German-speakers to neighborhoods inhabited by German immigrants, for instance. The Federalists, led by Alexander Hamilton, did not bother with any of these tactics. 
 Burr, who later joined Jefferson on the Republican slate,was correct about the workers' disenchantment. Many had come to see the Federalists as elitists who refused to shake hands with artisans and who looked down on self-made men. To them, the Federalist Party had become the bastion of conservatives who abhorred participatory politics, upheld social traditionalism and were committed to an economy that favored the wealthy -- a party, in short, committed to blocking the changes that middle- and lower-class Americans had hoped would be realized through the American Revolution.
 In April, the Republicans captured all 12 of New York City's seats in the State Legislature, scoring overwhelming victories in the working-class wards of what were then the upper reaches of Manhattan. Their triumph in the city gave them control of the State Legislature. 
 The first lady, Abigail Adams, wrote to her sons that the Republicans had won because they had ''laid their plans with more skill than their opponents.'' She added that ''N York would be the balance'' in the fall's presidential election. She was right. New York's 12 electors cast all their votes for Jefferson and Burr. Of the votes cast by the 138 electors nationwide, 73 went to Jefferson and 73 to Burr. Adams came in third, with 65. All but one of the remaining votes went to Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, the other Federalist candidate. The outcome -- Jefferson as president, Burr as vice president -- was determined by the House of Representatives. 
 For the first time, a sitting president was turned out of office. For the first time, too, a presidential election turned on artful modern politicking -- in a swing state. As Burr explained to his vanquished opponents: ''We have beat you by superior management.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 1800; Electoral College

PERSON: John (1735-1826) Adams; Thomas (1743-1826) Jefferson; John Ferling

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



705 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: The Fellowship of the Reel

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS J. GILLISON

 BODY:
SHUCKING bait clams under a sliver of moon early on a recent Saturday, Tino Hernandez, a retired construction worker, rediscovered his friend of 25 years aboard the Pilot, their favorite fishing boat in Sheepshead Bay. 
 It had been 10 years since Mr. Hernandez, 65, had seen Mino Riviera, a 75-year-old retired X-ray technician. He happened upon Mr. Riviera, who has fished on the boat for almost 40 years, only by chance. ''It is good to be among friends,'' was all Mr. Riviera could say, for bashfulness. 
 Friendships -- old, new and revived -- are strong themes aboard the party fishing boats of Sheepshead Bay, which ply local waters so their customers can catch porgies, bluefish, sea bass, weakfish, tuna, mackerel, blackfish and more. The friendships sometimes constitute something of a second family, even though the anglers come from sharply different walks of life.
 Aboard the Pilot that Saturday morning, the party heading out into the dramatic blue and red sunrise included a Manhattan real estate developer, a tailor, a set designer from Williamsburg, some construction workers, a wholesale importer and a caretaker for the New York City Housing Authority. All had paid $39 for a chance to land some porgies.
 ''I could easily go out to Long Island,'' said Ray, a 53-year-old construction worker from Queens. ''But here it's like a family friend.''
 Social distinctions typically disappear when customers climb aboard. ''Whether they make a lot of money or whether they make less than an average income is really of no avail out here,'' said the captain, Thomas Marconi, who has been operating the Pilot for 40 of his 58 years. ''They're all equal when they come on my boat.'' 
 But these warm feelings are tinged with the bittersweet. Although Brooklyn officials are seeking to help the industry -- State Senator Carl Kruger, for example, has proposed turning some empty land nearby into a parking lot and providing jitney service to the marina -- the party boats of Sheepshead Bay have been on the decline for years.
 George Richford, the owner and operator of a party boat called the Pastime Princess, said that when he started working in the marina as a teenager in 1956, more than 40 fishing boats plied these waters, captains and crews earned a decent living, and both the industry's future and his own seemed secure. But on a recent visit only about 15 fishing boats were operating. Mr. Richford said he hadn't turned a profit in three years and even the last 10 had been a disappointment. ''You can't earn a living anymore,'' he said. ''This year is a total disaster. I'm down 60 percent.''
 Boat captains say several problems, including a slow economy, strict regulations on allowable catches and a serious lack of parking space brought on by the building of condominiums and other developments, are forcing them to relocate or leave the business altogether.
 One boat pilot said he once saw a customer spend nearly two hours searching for a parking spot one morning before giving up. And Robert Sapanara, captain of the 149-passenger Brooklyn, added, ''I've probably left at least a half a dozen people per night on the docks because we can't wait any longer.''
 An upturn of the industry may be possible, but the feeling of sunset at Sheepshead Bay is strong. At 10 a.m. aboard the Pilot that Saturday, the captain announced that a customer feared he was having a heart attack. The elderly man, a 25-year veteran of the boat, sat hunched in a corner of the cabin and complained of chest pains and leg cramps. The Coast Guard escorted the Pilot to Sandy Hook station, so the passenger could get medical attention. ''All of our clientele seem to be getting older,'' said Tom Dzurenko, a deckhand.
 But for the moment at least, people still gather in friendly clusters on the party boats, and social boundaries are easily crossed. 
 ''There's a lot of greeting and hugging and kissing in the mornings,'' said Sheila Madoo, a Trinidadian nurse from Harlem. ''It's like family.'' Ms. Madoo, for example, prepares special spices for Frank Brooks, who sells sausages and sodas on the Pilot on weekends. And the entire boat seems to know that Mr. Brooks's son, Frank, became a pitcher for the Pittsburgh Pirates in August. 
 FISHING next to Ms. Madoo was Michael Rosenberg, a 49-year-old lawyer. ''I met a retired police detective, I met a guy who sells shampoo to beauty salons -- you name it,'' he said of his previous fishing trips. ''People are very generous. Not like in normal society.'' 
 Also nearby was Henry Johnson, now retired from his job as a safety officer at an asylum for the criminally insane on Wards Island, who said he had encountered all types on the boat, including some former patients. ''I was kind of surprised myself,'' he admitted.
 Steve Orlando, a deckhand aboard the Pastime Princess, claims he met both his wives on Sheepshead Bay fishing boats, though he is currently a bachelor. ''You get to know people,'' he said. 
 But friendliness cannot stave off economic reality. ''If things stay the way they are, I don't give it five years,'' said Mr. Richford, the owner of the Pastime Princess. He isn't waiting to see if the industry will survive, however. At the end of the season, he intends to take his boat to Florida to start his business anew. ''If everything goes well,'' he said, ''I should be out of here by November.'' 
 Mr. Sapanara is equally pessimistic, saying he expects to cease operations sometime in the next five years. He inherited the family business from his father but now also works as a deckhand on the Staten Island Ferry to supplement his income. ''There's nothing left to pass on,'' he said. ''I have two sons, but there's nowhere for them to go.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CAMARADERIE REIGNS -- Clockwise, from left: in the twinkle of daybreak, waiting for the Pilot to set sail
preparing the day's bait
 an impromptu game of poker in the ship's cabin, and a father-and-son moment. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for the New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport; Boats and Boating

PERSON: Douglas J Gillison; Thomas (Capt) Marconi; George (Capt) Richford

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Sheepshead Bay (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



706 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; THE GOODS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Wolverines for the Other 364 Days

BYLINE: By BRENDAN I. KOERNER

 BODY:
THIS weekend is the zenith of the costume industry's year, as last-minute shoppers rush to buy wolf masks and witch hats. Come tomorrow, many of those guises will be in the clearance bins, as shop owners and costume manufacturers begin the long countdown to Halloween 2005.
 There is one group of companies, though, for which Oct. 31 is just another day: the makers of corporate- and school-mascot costumes. ''It used to be that summer was the slow time, but sales are pretty steady now,'' said Alan St. George, the president of one such business, Facemakers Inc. in Savanna, Ill. 
 When Mr. St. George founded Facemakers 32 years ago, costumes for mascots -- like Tony the Tiger for Kellogg's Frosted Flakes or the bear of Central Valley High School in Spokane, Wash. -- were scarcely even a cottage industry. ''There was only one other major firm,'' he said. ''All of their things were made of papier mache, which was kind of the old-fashioned way of doing it.'' 
 Facemakers broke from that tradition by using fiberglass, which is lighter and easier to produce from stock molds.
 The company has built a collection of more than 1,000 costume molds, from generics like wildcats to the Cool Llama, which comes with sunglasses and a fedora and costs $1,048. Dozens of animals are offered, often in differing styles. Mr. St. George has discovered that his clients fall into two camps. 
 ''There are those schools that like a ferocious, realistic type, then there are those that want something fun,'' he said. Thus Facemakers has five wolverine costumes, from a cuddly friendly wolverine for $699 to a giant ferocious one for $1,099; adding menacing clawed feet to the mean version will run a school an extra $229.
 Mr. St. George estimates that Facemakers sells more than 1,000 costumes a year, with prices for custom work peaking at around $5,000. Most costumes cost about $800, though a client rarely buys one without requesting at least a few alterations -- for example, lengthening an alligator's snout, or making the friendly wolverine's smile a bit broader. The rule of thumb is that costumes end up costing about twice the list price, after tweaks are made.
 Advertising has always been Facemakers' biggest challenge, given the small pool of people with the money, authority and desire to buy a Pixie Possum get-up for $1,298. In the early years, the company sent direct-mail appeals to high school athletic departments, with limited success. Word of mouth was the only real winning strategy, so Facemakers started sewing its address inside the mascots' heads -- at eye level. ''The person wearing the head is looking right at the address,'' Mr. St. George said. 
 The Internet has revolutionized the industry, letting regional players like Street Characters Inc. of Calgary, Alberta, and Alinco Costumes of Murray, Utah, reach customers across North America. Street Characters, which sells its products through Mascots.com, says it designs costumes under its own 12-step ''mascots ergonomic system,'' which is intended to make the fur more pliable and breathable.
 The competition has spurred Facemakers to offer a line of ''economy costumes,'' made in Mexico and costing as little as $399. The company's staff of 20 has also focused on making costumes more durable, so that schools short on cash needn't buy one more than once or twice a decade. 
 MOST characters, for example, now come with crepe rubber soles on their feet, after Facemakers found that the leather soles on its Smokey Bear costumes were deteriorating too fast.
 Facemakers adds to its revenue stream by offering accessories like stylized paw covers or cooling systems -- Dura-Kold vests and battery-powered exhaust fans inside the costumes. Whether it's Halloween or the Fourth of July, it can get mighty hot tramping around as a giant wolverine.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Facemakers, which makes costumes for corporate or school mascots, can design a wolverine, for example, to look happy or menacing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (64%) Costumes, Theatrical; Industry Profiles; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Facemakers Inc

TICKER: K (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: Brendan I Koerner

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



707 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2508 words

HEADLINE: Is Kaiser The Future Of American Health Care?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
AFTER 18 years in private practice, Dr. Victor Silvestre was exhausted from his lonely battle, day after day, with a health care system that seemed to be working against him. A general practitioner, Dr. Silvestre found it increasingly difficult to get his patients appointments with specialists, who tended to focus on lucrative procedures instead of routine care. Paperwork and haggling with insurance companies, he said, took more and more time. ''There just had to be a better way,'' he recalled.
 For Dr. Silvestre, the better way was not across the border in Canada, or in some affluent nearby suburb, but in his own backyard, in Oakland. Two years ago, he joined Kaiser Permanente, the huge health maintenance organization based here. ''So many of the solutions, the ingredients of a more rational system for delivering health care, were there,'' he said.
 It may seem unlikely, given Kaiser's past image as a ham-handed H.M.O., but plenty of others are reaching the same conclusion. High-level visitors from across the political spectrum -- the Bush administration and National Health Service of Britain, for example -- are coming to California these days to look at Kaiser as an institution that is actually doing some of the things needed to improve health care. 
 Obviously, there is no single model for revamping the nation's costly, disjointed health care system, and Kaiser certainly has its share of problems. But according to economists and medical experts, Kaiser is a leader in the drive both to increase the quality of care and to spend health dollars more wisely, using technology and incentives tailored to those goals. ''Quality health care in America will never be cheap, but Kaiser probably does it better than anywhere else,'' said Uwe E. Reinhardt, an economist at Princeton who specializes in health issues.
 HEALTH care systems in most industrialized countries are in crises of one form or another. But the American system is characterized by both feast and famine: it leads the world in delivering high-tech medical miracles but leaves 45 million people uninsured. The United States spends more on health care than any other country -- $6,167 a person a year -- yet it is a laggard among wealthy nations under basic health measures like life expectancy. In a nutshell, America's health care system, according to many experts, is a nonsystem. ''It's like the worst market system you could devise, just a mess,'' said Neelam Sekhri, a health policy specialist at the World Health Organization in Geneva.
 In this political season, the health care debate has been mostly about who will pay the bill. President Bush talks about tax credits and health savings accounts that are intended to give people more control over their care but would also mean that they would pay more out of their own pockets. Senator John Kerry wants the government to pay more, and he has proposed a major, and costly, program to cover the uninsured. 
 The favored solution of many liberals -- and of no small number of health care experts -- is a single-payer system of health insurance, covering the entire population and underwritten by the government. For the foreseeable future, that is considered politically off-limits, which was the message Washington absorbed from the abandoned effort to fashion a national health program in the Clinton administration. 
 How to finance health care is only one side of the problem. The other is how to deliver the care more intelligently, and that is where the Kaiser experience holds lessons. Given the demands of an aging population and steady advances in medical technology, national health spending will continue to climb. Yet by all accounts, there is plenty of waste -- estimates range up to 30 percent or more of total spending -- from unnecessary clinical tests, hospital stays and prescriptions, and the bedeviling sea of paper used to handle bills, claims and patient records. 
 ''We're not going to spend less, but figuring out how to get the most value out of our health spending is going to be the big issue of the future,'' said David Cutler, a health care economist at Harvard.
 But Kaiser as a model? Wasn't Kaiser, an H.M.O., part of the ''managed care'' movement that faltered in the 1990's amid protests from doctors and patients? In fact, Kaiser, with its origins in the 1930's and 1940's, when the industrialist Henry J. Kaiser provided health care for his construction and shipyard workers, has always been a hybrid. The managed care concept of the 1990's was about having an outside bean counter, usually an insurance company, looking over the shoulder of the doctor -- managing costs instead of managing care.
 Kaiser has a different setup with different incentives. It emphasizes preventive care and managing chronic diseases like heart disease and diabetes to keep people healthier. And that saves money because healthier people require less costly care like hospitalization. 
 The country's largest private-sector provider of health care, Kaiser employs more than 11,000 physicians and 135,000 other workers, owns 30 hospitals and hundreds of clinics and serves more than eight million members in nine states and the District of Columbia. Seventy percent are in California. Kaiser is both insurer and provider; employers typically pay fixed yearly fees for each member, no matter how much care is provided. 
 Clearly, Kaiser has its limits as a model for others. It is unlike many mainstream health plans in that it is a not-for-profit company -- though one with annual revenue of more than $25 billion and operating margins of 5 percent. Its facilities tend to be large, and it has a lingering reputation for practicing an impersonal, regimented style of medicine that limits patient choice, despite recent efforts like the creation of physicians' personal Web pages and e-mail communication with patients. 
 Still, most health care experts who have studied Kaiser are impressed. ''Kaiser has a model that consciously manages both quality and costs in a way that has been very effective,'' said Margaret O'Kane, president of the National Committee for Quality Assurance, an independent group that monitors health plans.
 Kaiser's approach is best illustrated in two ways: its management of chronic illnesses like heart disease and diabetes, and its $3 billion initiative to use information technology to improve clinical care and streamline operations. 
 Across the country, health costs are skewed. In any given year, 90 percent of spending provides care for 30 percent of the population, and more than half of total spending goes to 5 percent of the population. Much of it is spent on people with chronic illnesses like heart disease and diabetes. So helping people with those ailments stay as healthy as possible offers much opportunity for cutting costs -- and for improving lives. 
 In Northern California, Kaiser has sharply reduced the death rate for its three million members there in recent years by monitoring and controlling blood pressure and cholesterol levels and by promoting the use of aspirin and beta blockers (to reduce the risk of heart attacks) and statins (to lower cholesterol). The death rate from heart disease among the Kaiser members is 30 percent lower than it is in the rest of the Northern California population, adjusted for age and gender.
 Four months ago, Jose Flores, 44, a postal worker in San Francisco, had double-bypass heart surgery. While still in the hospital, he was enrolled in a program of education and treatment, which is run by nurses and lasts a year. Patients receive instruction on diet, exercise and cholesterol management; smokers are placed in a course to help them quit. 
 Mr. Flores says he is on a drug regimen that includes beta blockers and Lovastatin, a generic cholesterol-lowering statin. He takes large doses of niacin, a vitamin that raises the level of high-density lipoprotein, the ''good'' cholesterol that protects against heart attacks. He walks for an hour, five days a week. His eating habits have been transformed, too: fried foods were once a staple of his diet, but no more. Blacklisted, too, are sour cream, cheese and corn chips. ''Now, I try to avoid all that,'' Mr. Flores said. 
 IN Northern California alone, Kaiser spends $55 million a year on chronic-care management programs. ''But what's really expensive is if we don't take care of these people and manage their chronic conditions,'' said Dr. Robert Mithun, chief of internal medicine at Kaiser's medical center in San Francisco.
 Dr. Mithun's comment may seem like no more than common sense, but it does not reflect the typical logic of the dominant fee-for-service model of health care. Most doctors and hospitals get a fee from insurers for each patient visit, clinical test, surgical procedure or day a patient spends in a hospital. In practice, the fee-for-service system is often an invitation to do more of everything -- more visits, more tests, more surgery. What gets done is what gets paid for, and insurers usually do not pay for preventive care or chronic care management provided by nurses or in group classes, like the ones at Kaiser. 
 In the fee-for-service medical economy, doctors and hospitals routinely strike different deals at different fees with many different insurers. The results are complexity, inefficiency and a constant bureaucratic tug-of-war between health care providers and insurers over claims.
 The Kaiser economy seems a world apart. ''What works at Kaiser is the integration of the financing and delivery of care, and the aligned incentives that allow you to make more rational decisions about health care for members,'' said Ms. Sekhri, the policy expert at the World Health Organization, who has studied Kaiser.
 Ms. Sekhri was a co-author of a 2002 report that compared Kaiser in California with the National Health Service of Britain. The report found that for comparable spending, the Kaiser system in California did a better job of keeping people with chronic conditions out of hospitals. And when Kaiser patients were admitted to hospitals, their stays were generally shorter. Recently, Britain sent groups of primary care physicians and hospital administrators to California to learn from Kaiser.
 The Labor government in Britain may look to Kaiser as an efficient model for its health service, which is run by the government. But the Bush administration is more interested in Kaiser as a model for the efficiencies and integration that can be achieved through information technology.
 In May, the Bush administration appointed Dr. David J. Brailer to the new post of national coordinator of health information technology. His mandate is to prod the nation's health care system into the computer age. Bringing patient records and prescriptions out of the pen-and-ink era promises to save both dollars and lives. The automation of an electronic system could sharply reduce medical errors, which are estimated to be responsible for 45,000 to 98,000 deaths a year, according to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences. 
 Kaiser has been investing heavily in information technology for years. Its clinical information system includes electronic records with a patient's history, prescriptions and preventive health recommendations. A doctor can call up a patient's X-ray or magnetic resonance image on a desktop personal computer. Electronic prescribing -- a goal in the government plan -- is routine at Kaiser.
 Yet Kaiser is in the midst of a several-year, $3 billion program, called KP HealthConnect, to drastically improve and integrate its clinical and administrative systems and Web-based services for members. Once it is in place, Kaiser clinicians will be able to tap into a vast but flexible storehouse of data that uses intelligent software to automatically flag potentially harmful drug combinations for a patient or to suggest what treatments have been most effective for other people who are of the same sex, age group and -- eventually -- genetic profile.
 DR. BRAILER, for one, checks in regularly on the progress of HealthConnect. George Halvorson, Kaiser's chief executive, said, ''Policy makers are looking to us as the cutting edge of how health care can be supported electronically.''
 Kaiser has had setbacks in the program. Last year, it abandoned I.B.M. as its main partner on the project and chose to go with specialized health care software provided by Epic Systems, a private company in Madison, Wis. Despite the switch, HealthConnect is scheduled to be rolled out during the next couple of years across Kaiser's operations. 
 The conversion of inefficient paperwork to a digital network also opens the door to fostering more efficient markets in health care. Markets rely on information, yet the health care economy is one in which information on patients, treatments and outcomes is trapped on paper and isolated in clinics, hospitals and insurance offices -- instead of being shared, analyzed and compared, while still insuring privacy.
 The fee-for-service model exists because patient visits, clinical tests and surgical procedures can be measured. They are inputs, in economic terms. Whether those inputs are effective is another matter. 
 In recent years, there have been efforts to focus on the quality of health care. The National Committee for Quality Assurance conducts annual reports based on a health plan's use of practices shown to improve patients' health, from timely prenatal care to cholesterol management. Kaiser plans consistently earn excellent ratings in the group's reports, and, this year, it had four of the five top-rated plans in the Pacific region, its stronghold. 
 Dr. Francis J. Crosson, the executive director of the physicians' side of Kaiser, said, ''Our future has to be to compete on quality, offering people demonstrably better care and better value.''
 And the Kaiser system delivers quality while controlling total costs. A recent survey of health care costs in 15 metropolitan areas by Hewitt Associates, the human resources consulting firm, found that the cost for care per employee last year was lowest in the San Francisco area, where Kaiser members were about 35 percent of the insured population, at $5,515, and was highest in regions where Kaiser did not operate -- led by New York, at $6,818 a worker. 
 Quality yardsticks are helpful, but they still measure inputs -- ones associated with better health -- instead of tracking how patients fare. The longer-term goal is for health plans to use technology more, as leading companies in the rest of the economy do. For the health plans, that may mean constantly tracking patients, treatments and results. ''To have a real market for quality in health care, you need a product,'' Mr. Halvorson said. ''And that means reliable, timely information about outcomes, clinical-trial sorts of databases that show things like, for example, 50-year-olds in our system have fewer heart attacks.
 ''With the right informationand the right incentives,'' he added, ''capitalism creates very good solutions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Victor Silvestre, a general practitioner, renounced the headaches of private practice after 18 years and joined Kaiser Permanente two years ago. (Photo by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Dr. Francis J. Crosson, executive director of Kaiser's physicians, says the company's future has to be ''offering people demonstrably better care.''
 George Halvorson, the chief executive, is overseeing an effort to create a powerful digital network. (Photographs by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); INSURANCE (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Company and Organization Profiles; Computers and the Internet; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (91%); AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Kaiser Permanente

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%)

PERSON: Victor (Dr) Silvestre; Steve Lohr; Francis J (Dr) Crosson; George Halvorson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (50%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



708 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Home Front; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Can't Read, Can't Write, Can Hide It

BYLINE: By Leslie Kaufman. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LITERACY experts say that 20 percent of the population of the United States cannot read or write English proficiently. In New York City alone there are more than one million adults who are so lacking in skills that they cannot fill out application forms or read basic contracts, according to Literacy Partners Inc., a nonprofit group that instructs such people.
 While Literacy Partners says such a handicap keeps many from becoming employed, there are also hundreds of thousands who are underemployed and tens of thousands who are hiding their lack of basic skills from an employer.
 They are people like Vanessa, a 38-year-old from the Bronx who works for a private agency that contracts with the Board of Education to provide therapy for disabled schoolchildren -- her clients are afflicted with illnesses from asthma to bone disease. 
 Vanessa asked to be referred to only by her middle name because she feared that her bosses might find out she cannot read. She has never told them and has amorphous fears about exactly what would happen if she did. ''To tell you the truth I don't honestly know what they'd do,'' she said, ''but for me it is a dark secret and embarrassing. I am not comfortable with it and I will keep it confidential until I am.''
 Susan McLean, executive director of Literacy Partners, said that hiding illiteracy from a boss is common among the students she serves. ''I've been doing this for 20 years and never had a student volunteer to a boss that they were illiterate,'' she said. Her tutors even know not to call students at work, she says, unless explicitly told that they can.
 As a child, Vanessa says, she was found to have a learning disability and placed in special education. Although she completed 12th grade, Vanessa only learned enough in school to bluff her way through situations that demanded reading comprehension. ''They would teach us basic skills to survive,'' she said, ''but no one really worked with us on learning.''
 Still, Vanessa says that since she was 15 she has held jobs from hospital candy striper to payroll office employee to day care worker. For most of her life, when she needed help with a form or a contract she would take it home to her mother or sister, who would decode it for her.
 Her aunt, who knows her condition but also understood her passion and talent for working with special-needs children, helped her get her current job. Vanessa says she loves her work, but admits that even talent has not stopped her from feeling trapped at times.
 ''There will be times when someone asks me to fill out a medical form for a child or to review some papers and I'll have to make excuses,'' she says. When the job needs to be done right away she will tell people that she has to rush a child to therapy or is too busy for some other reason. If the job can wait she brings the paperwork home and has her daughter, age 7, read it to her.
 Her daughter, she says, has no learning disability. ''She is a B student,'' Vanessa said. ''She is good.''
 But it was her daughter who finally made her tackle the problem. ''We were watching TV together and the ad for Literacy Partners came on and I thought, 'I am going finally do this; I am tired of living in the dark,''' Vanessa recalled. ''This has prevented me from making more money and getting better jobs and I thought I can make a better life for my daughter.''
 SO about a year ago, Vanessa joined a group of a dozen people who meet on Monday and Wednesday nights from 5:30 to 8:30 to develop reading skills -- though Vanessa always gets there at 5 o'clock just to be sure.
 ''They teach us to sound out words and to understand what we are reading,'' she said.
 For example, this summer she was out of work for three months and needed to file for unemployment benefits. Her teacher helped her read the form and understand what she was signing.
 Vanessa says she sees improvement, but it is a day-to-day process. She adds that her group is full of other people who are in her situation -- going to work and hiding their secret from their bosses. 
 ''We have conversations about this all the time,'' she said. ''That is why I like going.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ILLITERACY FEARS -- More than one million adults in New York City lack the skills to read or write English, and experts say many of them keep their problem a secret at work. (Photo illustration by Yoni Brook/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERACY & ILLITERACY (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (76%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%) Reading and Writing Skills; Labor; English Language

ORGANIZATION: Literacy Partners

PERSON: Leslie Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



709 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Belatedly, Africa Is Converting to Lead-Free Gasoline

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
When Kenyans go to the gas pump, they have several options -- regular, super, premium, diesel and, increasingly, a choice that has many local motorists scratching their heads, unleaded.
 Lead-free gasoline may be the fuel of choice in most of the world but sub-Saharan Africa lags years behind when it comes to converting to cleaner-burning gasoline. On this continent, gas is sold at slick, modern stations and at roadside stands, where vendors use their mouths to help siphon fuel from plastic jugs. Many motorists mistakenly regard unleaded gas as suitable only for the latest model cars. 
 ''I don't use it,'' said Avtar Singh, who pulled his 1990 Nissan into a Nairobi gas station the other day. ''I'd have problems with my engine with the unleaded.''
 Ninety percent of the gas used worldwide is lead free, specialists say, with the use of leaded fuel concentrated in developing countries. But now, prompted by the United Nations, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and others, a movement is sweeping through Africa to phase out leaded gasoline. Concerned about the damage to people's health caused by lead, many countries from Senegal to South Africa have set a target date of 2005 for phasing out leaded gas.
 In the United States, the Clean Air Act, passed in 1970, began the gradual removal of lead from gasoline. It was finally outlawed in 1995, reducing lead levels in the air by an estimated 98 percent.
 In 2000, Sudan became the first country in sub-Saharan Africa to switch to unleaded gas, a decision based as much on economic concerns as on environmental concerns. Sudan had built a refinery, north of Khartoum, which provides gasoline for domestic consumption and an export market that demands unleaded.
 Switching to unleaded alone does not bring clean air, to which anyone who has spent time in Sudan's congested capital can attest. Decades-old taxis with fumes seeping into their interiors compete with belching buses on the streets. 
 Still, the reduction of lead levels has been shown to save lives. A conference on leaded gasoline that the United Nations Environment Program held in Dakar, Senegal, in June 2001 prompted many other African countries to follow Sudan.
 Conference delegates expressed alarm at data showing that lead reduces the brain function of children and increases the risk of heart attacks and strokes in adults. Governments have begun teaching motorists about the risks. 
 ''When inhaled, lead causes very serious health problems,'' Ratemo W. Michieka, director of Kenya's National Environmental Management Authority, said in a recent notice published in local newspapers.
 One of the few studies of the health effects of lead in Africa, conducted in Egypt in 1995 and updated since, found that the I.Q. of children was lowered by slightly more than four points as a result of lead, and adults exposed to lead had significantly higher levels of strokes, heart attacks and other ailments. Egypt switched to unleaded gas in 1999.
 The poor suffer most from leaded gas, health specialists say. They are most likely to live, work and walk on busy, polluted highways. A recent survey in Kenya found the highest lead levels in urban areas, but elevated levels were also detected countrywide in corn, water and milk.
 African governments now say that unleaded gas will soon be the fuel of choice. South Africa, the continent's economic powerhouse, has said it will no longer use leaded fuel by 2006 affecting smaller countries nearby.
 Similarly, in West Africa, many smaller countries say they will change when larger neighbors do so. Cameroon, which exports to Central African Republic, Chad and Equatorial Guinea, says it will stop distributing leaded gas in November 2005. 
 Environmental activists, while thrilled with these moves, consider the change a first step in cleaning Africa's air. Countries must also begin replacing jalopies with newer cars with more efficient engines. Then there is the question of sulfur, an additive in diesel fuel that causes widespread damage to health. In switching to unleaded gasoline, African countries face a variety of challenges, and those that refine their own fuel face the greatest difficulty.
 In Ethiopia, where the government controls fuel imports, the conversion was swift. Government officials stopped importing leaded gasoline in January 2004 and replaced it with unleaded fuel with little public participation, or even knowledge. 
 But countries like Kenya face a more complicated task. With both fuels now available, government officials must first battle the widespread belief among motorists that leaded gas is required for older cars. 
 Oil companies began adding lead to gas in the 1920's as a cost-effective way to increase fuel octane and thus control engine knock. But specialists commissioned by the United Nations say that even older cars without catalytic converters, the bulk of the vehicles on African roads, can run on unleaded fuel.
 ''Leaded gasoline is the worst fuel one could imagine for any engine, including those designed for leaded gasoline,'' said one of the specialists, John J. Mooney, an inventor of the catalytic converter.
 In one effort to change public opinion, Jane Akumu, a United Nations program officer, has been holding seminars for gas station attendants throughout Kenya to teach them about the health hazards of leaded gas. By the end of the sessions, she said, most vow to encourage their customers to use a safer fuel.
 Stations in Kenya typically charge the same price for unleaded gasoline as for leaded, unlike those in some other countries. Specialists also say that the unleaded variety can eventually save money for consumers by reducing damage to exhaust valves, exhaust pipes and spark plugs.
 However, the switch has financial ramifications for the government. Most of the gasoline available in the country is processed on the coast in Mombasa at a refinery that is jointly owned by the government and by Caltex Oil Corporation, Kenya Shell and British Petroleum. Built in the 1960's, it is not equipped to handle unleaded fuel.
 A recent change in regulations requires that all imported gasoline, about 30 percent of the total, be unleaded. But what to do with the refinery, which also provides 144 jobs and another 1,500 related to its operation, remains a difficult issue.
 An outside consultant has estimated that it will cost more than $161 million to alter the Mombasa refinery to process unleaded fuel. Another option, at $88 million, would turn the refinery into a storage facility for imported fuel. A third option would be to close it.
 While the owners ponder the tough choices, Kenyan officials say they are committed to phasing out leaded gasoline by the end of 2005. 
 At Parklands Service Station, one of Nairobi's busiest, Ramesh C. Bhalla is not so sure. He offers only leaded and diesel fuel and is in no rush to offer unleaded. Only a tiny percentage of people who pull up to his pumps ask for lead-free gas.
 ''Our customers have always used leaded petrol and are still learning about this unleaded,'' Mr. Bhalla said. ''It's a new thing for us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leaded gasoline is the fuel of choice at a station in Ndenderu, a suburb of Nairobi, and throughout Kenya.
Lead has been shown to reduce brain function in children, putting students in Nairobi, Kenya, above, at risk. (Photographs by Guillaume Bonn for The New York Times)
 From Senegal to South Africa, countries plan to join those that have phased out leaded gas.Chart/Map: ''Taking the Lead Out''Nine African countries have already phased out leaded gasoline.Map of Africa highlighting the following countries:MauritaniaEritreaEthiopiaRwandaMauritiusGhanaNigeriaCape Verde

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEAD (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); GASOLINE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (87%); AIR QUALITY (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); CHILDREN (87%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE FUELS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); CONSUMPTION (68%); BUDGETS (68%); STROKES (66%); HEART DISEASE (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); BRAIN (60%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (55%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Air Pollution; Lead; Third World and Developing Countries; Finances; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%) United Nations; Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (55%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (54%) KENYA (98%); AFRICA (97%); SUDAN (94%); SENEGAL (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (79%) Africa; Kenya; Mombasa (Kenya)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



710 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Swing Time

BYLINE: By Walter Kirn

 BODY:

VILLAGES
By John Updike.
321 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
 SEX scenes in fiction are a problem. Whether they're rendered crudely and directly, through graphic close-ups and blunt four-letter words, or delivered elegantly and obliquely, through misty impressions and lofty euphemisms, most displays of literary lovemaking tend to make the reader's flesh crawl. They feel like overcooked pornography, undercooked lyric poetry or -- worst of all -- some odd, jarring combination of the two. Only the juvenile and the information-starved actively seek out such passages; the mature and the experienced regard them as unavoidable ordeals.
 Though the young John Updike must have known all this (he seemed to know everything about his medium, almost from the start) he nevertheless resolved about four decades ago to make the big, detailed, extended sex scene a hallmark of his art. In ''Rabbit, Run,'' ''Couples'' and other novels and story collections from the 1960's and 70's, the supernaturally fluent chronicler of somewhat-moneyed North-eastern domesticity perfected a new, arresting approach to what bookish sophomores call ''the good parts,'' gaining for himself a reputation as possibly America's most eloquent and most gynecologically thorough dirty mind. In early and middle Updike, every set of human genitals had its own distinctive physicality, often presented with clinical precision, as well as a soulful individuality. What Henry James did with clothing and furniture -- turned them into characters -- Updike did with the reproductive organs and with their behavior when aroused.
 ''Villages,'' Updike's 21st novel, recaptures and concentrates the erotic essence of the earlier books but adds a mellow, retrospective tone. It's a remembrance of copulations past, and of the Edenic post-pill, pre-AIDS moment that made the more casual of those hook-ups possible. In its period, settings and cast of characters, the story also overlaps consistently with Updike's own biography, tempting one to read it as a confession. In the end, the book gratifies in every way -- as an exhibition of educated prurience, an elegy for an era and an inquiry into the morals of a striving upper-middle-class white male.+
 His name is Owen Mackenzie, though he might as well be called ''Anonymous.'' Between his small-town Pennsylvania youth, his heady college years at M.I.T. and his affluent Connecticut middle age, Owen comes off as a heraldic figure, a broad generational composite, whose hypothetical coat of arms might feature a set of golf clubs, a leather-bound appointment calendar and a station wagon. The man in the gray flannel suit? Not quite, but close. He's individual enough to win our animal sympathies and representative enough to stimulate our intellects. Owen's story might not be yours, but Updike suggests that it's a lot of people's, including, maybe, his own.
 The novel's tidy, full-circle timetable begins with a typical day in Owen's life, then doubles back to show the life itself. At 70, as he wakes up in the bedroom that he shares with his early-rising second wife, Julia, Owen is financially secure, emotionally stable, physically normal and spiritually average. Though he's on his way out of this world, he's going slowly, consoled by a poetic appreciation for the great, stately cycles of the cosmos. Of birds, he's capable of thinking this (in concert with Updike, his authorial shadow, who sometimes speaks through him and sometimes for him): ''We are mere dots beneath their wings, our cities foul and barren interruptions in the discourse of predator and prey.'' A handsome home, a loving wife and a broad perspective worthy of Thoreau -- the retired computer software engineer lacks for nothing except time.
 The account of how Owen spent the time he once had proceeds in the usual Updike manner: straight ahead, from A to B, without gimmicky chronological distortions but with frequent intermissions for reverie and meditation. Though Updike has dabbled in experimental fiction in much the same way that his frisky New England husbands dabble in adultery, he's at heart a solid artistic conformist who succeeds by embracing conventions, not spurning them, and embracing them so avidly and strenuously that they yield surprising new juice. Time is a river -- he accepts the truism. But he also sees that this river is full of whirlpools where emotion and awareness spin in place, creating little images of eternity.
 In ''Villages,'' it's sexual energy that whirls these vortexes. On the playground equipment shed of his elementary school, the young Owen finds a crude, archetypal piece of graffiti that permanently affects his vision of the female body: ''Close by, an older, more knowing hand had incised in a pencil that gouged its lines deep into the yellow-painted wood what looked like a swollen letter M but, on examination, was a naked woman, legs bent at the knee and spread to reveal between them a slit, a pumpkin-seed shape, curls of hair around and above it, and below it a dot that Owen could not name even to himself, in the silence of his head, it was so shameful.'' Truly definitive descriptions of familiar human artifacts are profoundly rare in fiction, but certainly this is one of them.
 For everyboy Owen to leave his sheltered small town and crash the great cocktail party of the world, Updike must do his authorial duty and assign him a plausible, suitable career. As long as it pays enough to situate Owen in the neighborhood where Updike wants him to live, and as long as it suits Owen's pre-established temperament (practical-minded, a little shy), any of dozens of occupations might do. Writers are control freaks, though, and they don't like to settle such open matters with coin flips, although it might be better if they did, since the overly thought-out choices they finally do make usually feel slightly rigged. They remind us -- sometimes joltingly -- whom the protagonist really works for, and it's not the reader or himself.
 Updike forces Owen to write software chiefly because the rise of the computer industry traces much the same historical arc as the sexual revolution. The early, postwar machines were slow and awkward, as were the early, postwar swingers, but by the 70's both were fast and smooth. Having done himself this convenience, Updike seeks to portray it as somehow essential and profound by filling in the inevitable gaps between Owen's libidinous adventures with plenty of well-researched, brainy talk about binary logic, printed circuits and so on. Reading these sections, one senses -- quite correctly -- that it's unnecessary to read them.
 Not so for the good parts, which are brave and excellent, even when they're vaguely nauseating. Because Updike seldom blinks when viewing human nakedness (or lets his couples turn off the bedroom lights) his sex scenes are an acquired taste, just as sex itself is, he reminds us. Owen's transformation from a sensitive schoolboy who's sickened and transfixed by filthy pencil drawings into a prowling middle-aged libertine who has sex with a young employee during office hours does not proceed seamlessly. It moves by fits and starts, through pangs of revulsion and flashes of revelation. As he consummates his first illicit liaison, Owen notes, in classic Updike fashion, the difference between his lover's vaginal textures and his wife's. The lover's organ is ''smoother, somehow simpler, its wetness less thick, less of a sauce, more of a glaze.''
 Such erotic gourmandism feels dated now, but it accurately reflects the mind-set of Owen and his peers, who made Playboy magazine an institution and books such as ''The Sensuous Man'' best sellers. In those days and for those men, sex was a sort of winery tour. A new lover was rolled around inside the goblet first, then sniffed and tasted, sipped and savored. The process was all very conscious and humane and behind it lay a philosophy of pleasure that Updike, near the end of ''Villages,'' touchingly resurrects for those of us who recall its existence but are foggy on its particulars. Call it the Hefner Creed. ''The unfaithful man and woman meet for a plain purpose, dangerous and scandalous, with the blood pressure up and the pupils enlarged and the love-flush already reddening the skin: is there not a praiseworthy economy in this, as opposed to sex spread thin through the interminable mutual exposure of a marriage?''
 The era that spawned such thinking has passed, but some of the rascals who were present at its dawn -- including Updike's Owen and Owen's Updike -- are still alive and possessed of functioning memories. ''Villages'' reads like their collective farewell. Good night, you precious darlings, we have to go.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Henrik Drescher)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); POETRY (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Walter Kirn; John Updike

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



711 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: No Pay as You Go

 BODY:
The bottom line on mass transit anywhere is that the masses cannot really pay for it. Government subsidies are necessary to keep buses, trains and subways running -- and it's more than worth it, considering the congestion, air pollution and disruptions to the economy that would come if cars became the only method of getting around.
 All that is especially true in the metropolitan New York area. Riders foot more of the costs here than almost anywhere else in the nation. But if the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is required to pay too much of its own way, commuting by rail or express bus will become too expensive for many riders. Drivers will suffer as well, as the competition for parking and highway space increases and the authority raises its bridge tolls through the roof. 
 Washington, Albany, City Hall and the suburbs will have to pay a fairer share of the costs of getting eight million people to work and back. The authority has been sounding warnings about a $436 million deficit next year, and alerting commuters to service cutbacks and fare increases. That deficit could eventually grow to $1 billion or, according to State Comptroller Alan Hevesi, maybe $2 billion.
 The reason for this deep hole is not hard to figure out. Over the last 25 years, the authority has borrowed lots of money to make the subways and trains cleaner and more efficient -- including, most disturbingly, a monster 2000 bond issue to help finance a $17 billion capital maintenance and expansion program. That New Yorkers now enjoy better mass transit is good for everybody. But the authority borrowed more than it could pay back on its own, and the bill is coming due.
 Officials at the authority are already planning to make sure suburban commuters and city straphangers pay their share -- or more -- of the additional costs. Commuter rail ticket prices could go up by about 5 percent, and so could the prices for E-ZPasses, the tolls on bridges and the costs of daily and monthly MetroCards. At the same time, the authority's leadership is talking about cutting or not replacing thousands of workers, mostly on subway and bus lines, including over 350 employees working on the Long Island Rail Road and almost 200 working for Metro-North. 
 So far, however, there have been few helpful offers from President Bush, Gov. George Pataki, Mayor Michael Bloomberg or the State Legislature. That's unacceptable, given the of mass transit to the state and regional economy. 
 For starters, the city must increase its contribution to the authority. Mayor David Dinkins, facing financial problems, began cutting the city's contribution, and Rudolph Giuliani and Mr. Bloomberg followed suit. Today's city contribution is one-third of what it was 20 years ago. The suburbs should chip in more for maintenance and other improvements, as should the federal government, not least because of the additional burden the system must bear as a prime terrorist target. Washington requires the authority to have bomb-sniffing dogs , shoulder bigger liability insurance premiums and take other measures. The estimated cost is $500 million, and Washington should pay it.
 Then there's the state. Republicans tend to resist offering more money; Democrats tend to resist making the system more efficient. The parties should switch roles. The Legislature, including suburban lawmakers who oppose consolidating rail lines, must help the authority restructure itself and streamline commuter bus lines. 
 Then there's Mr. Pataki. The governor's appointees, who essentially control the authority, have been willing to let the state off the hook. Mr. Pataki likes to be there when there is good news, like a long stretch without fare increases. Now he is arguing that a fare increase should not be necessary -- without, however, taking steps to solve the problems. That won't work. Unless the state provides more help with mass transit's growing debt, any fare increase will land on the governor's watch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (84%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); BOND ISSUES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AIR POLLUTION (57%); BONDS (50%) Transit Systems; Finances; Editorials; Railroads; Subways; Buses

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



712 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; AT LUNCH WITH -- RICHARD KARLGAARD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Yes, You Can Follow Your Bliss to Anytown, U.S.A.

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
EVERYONE knows the downside of living in or near big cities: sky-high mortgages, nightmare commutes, endless bustle, nonstop work. But tunnel vision? Isn't that the purview of laid-back small towns?
 No. At least not in Richard Karlgaard's view. The way he sees it, the denizens of Silicon Valley (he is one of them), or of Manhattan (ouch! -- the only place this reporter has ever lived) or of other high-energy, success-oriented places are so busy listening to one another that they often miss the point.
 How else to explain why Mr. Karlgaard, a former trade magazine editor who is now publisher of Forbes magazine and writes its ''Digital Rules'' column, was caught short when the Internet bubble burst? How else to explain why he wrote what he now calls ''gush'' about Global Crossing to the very end? 
 ''I lived among people who were all drinking the same Kool-Aid,'' he said. 
 The humbling self-knowledge didn't make him move to the heartland. But it did make him think. How many people, he wondered, would do better, and be happier, if they lived in smaller, quieter places? 
 For Mr. Karlgaard, 50, the question was not rhetorical. By vocation, he is a seeker of proof. By avocation, he is a newly trained pilot with a newcomer's zeal for the air.
 So, over the summers of 2002 and 2003, he took to the sky in a single-engine plane and visited scores of relocated urbanites to ask how they liked their new homes. 
 He discovered that, yes, the lower cost of living was a joy. But the psychic pluses and minuses were eye-opening, too.
 He lays it all out in ''Life 2.0: How People Across America Are Transforming Their Lives by Finding the Where of Their Happiness'' (Crown Business, July 2004). And during a recent lunch at a Forbes-owned town house in Greenwich Village, Mr. Karlgaard -- his oh-so-New York black garb seemingly clashing with his insistence that he's ''more at home in Albuquerque than at the St. Regis'' -- elaborated on why even the most devoted urbanite could live happily elsewhere. 
 Do you thrive on theaters, museums and four-star restaurants? Air fares are low enough to make frequent trips back to the big city possible. Do you work for a big ad agency or newspaper? The Internet lets you do that from anywhere. Do you crave the aura of Fifth Avenue or Rodeo Drive and the intellectual stimulation of urban centers? Small towns are actually pretty with-it these days. 
 ''The Internet, multiplexes, 24-hour fitness centers, high-tech clothing that guards against cold -- all of them have made it a lot less stultifying to live in hick towns,'' he said. 
 Mr. Karlgaard is not from a big city. He was born in Bismarck, N.D. His mom stayed home with four children. His father was a high school physical education teacher who later became athletic director for all of Bismarck's public schools.
 Throughout high school, and even as he studied political science at Stanford, Mr. Karlgaard's main passion was track and field. His first job was as an editorial assistant at Runner's World magazine, and he wrote a book called ''The Last Word on Running.'' It came out soon after ''The Complete Book of Running,'' Jim Fixx's best seller. As a result, Mr. Karlgaard said, ''we sold maybe 1,500 copies'' even though the book received good reviews. 
 Chastened, Mr. Karlgaard drifted for a time, taking jobs as a security guard and as a dishwasher. He finally realized, after reading H.L. Mencken, Saul Bellow and others, that he, too, wanted to ''do lively things with the English language.''
 He took various technical writing and advertising jobs and eventually started his own business writing and producing brochures. 
 Along the way he married Marji Unsoeld, whom he met on a blind date. They have two children and live in a big house in Los Altos, Calif., five miles from Palo Alto.
 The brochure business was lucrative but not satisfying. So in 1985 he and Anthony B. Perkins, a friend and banker, founded the Churchill Club, a commercial forum to discuss political ideas. Three years later they started Upside, a technology magazine. It was long on information and satirical caricatures of industry honchos, but short on profit. They sold it in 1992; Mr. Perkins went on to found the magazine Red Herring, and Forbes chose Mr. Karlgaard to found and edit Forbes ASAP, a supplement chronicling the disruptive impact of technology. 
 Six years later, when the publisher of Forbes quit, Steve Forbes, the editor in chief, offered the job to him. He took it -- with the proviso that he could stay in California and write a column on technology and that other Forbes executives would do most of the financial heavy lifting.
 ''I'm more of an editor at large, really,'' he said. 
 These days, he is more of a chronicler of the mobile society. He is full of advice for people who contemplate leaving the urban rat race. Herewith, some tips gleaned during lunch:
 Realize that pulling your children out of fancy urban schools will help, not hurt, their college chances. ''It's easier to get into Harvard from a Sioux Falls public school than from a New York private school,'' Mr. Karlgaard said. To explain, he quotes a friend, the dean of admissions at an Ivy League college: ''The applications from kids who have 'traveled extensively,' who have Stanley Kaplan-enhanced SAT's, they all look the same. The kid who was on the rodeo team stands out -- and can add diversity to the student body.''
 Review your track record for impulsive decisions. If you've done well by following your gut, then move if your instincts point that way. If you've regretted acting on impulse, he said, ''think 10 times'' and test your financial assumptions with a calculator and legal pad. ''It's a good way to add rationality to the process,'' he said. 
 Be honest with yourself about your career. If you are a rising star at a Wall Street firm, you still need the face time. But telecommuting can work if your career has peaked. ''To move successfully, you must feel you have nothing to lose,'' Mr. Karlgaard said.
 Recognize that some careers are better pursued in smaller places. A physicist who wants to lead a weapons development program may belong in Washington, but one who really wants to figure out cold fusion may do better at Cornell. And it is often easier to shine in smaller towns. ''My dad would never have become the athletic director for the New York City school system,'' Mr. Karlgaard said. 
 Focus on what you are running to, not from. Questionnaires on Web sites likefindyourspot.com can help you determine how much stock you put in an area's climate, public schools, museums or prevalent religions -- and can point you toward places most likely to make you happy. And don't fall prey to outmoded stereotypes: yes, there are thriving Jewish communities in Texas. 
 Be realistic about what you are leaving behind. Do you really go to the theater or the shore more than three times a year? How often do you really see your best friends? ''If you no longer are carrying the mortgage on a million-dollar apartment, you can afford to go to the city or the beach whenever you want,'' Mr. Karlgaard said.
 Don't think that moving will make a bad life idyllic. Granted, it is easier to deal with problems if your bills are modest and you are not trying to cram a family of five into 950 square feet. But an incompatible marriage in Metropolis will still be incompatible in Anytown. And weigh the psychic cost of not moving. ''If you think your problems could be solved by moving, even if they can't, you'll never forgive yourself for not trying,'' he said. 
 Test drive the move. Take a vacation to the spot you're considering. If you likeit, rent out your urban home and rent a place in the new location. ''If it turns out you're miserable,'' he said, ''you can always return.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Internet has made it easier for many people to leave big cities for the quiet of small towns, says Richard Karlgaard, the publisher of Forbes magazine. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITIES (78%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); LITERATURE (69%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (69%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (66%); TRENDS (65%); COST OF LIVING (63%); RESTAURANTS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Labor; Computers and the Internet; Relocation of Personnel; Relocation of Business; Social Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Working at Home; Books and Literature; Labor; Urban Areas; Rural Areas 

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch; Richard Karlgaard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



713 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: For Economy, Jobs May Be Tie Breaker

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE presidential election -- and whether it will be decided by Wednesday -- is this week's market focus.
 But the jobs report due on Friday -- as well as some other data coming out this week -- will help determine whether the economy has the legs its needs to keep running at an annual growth rate of 3.5 percent to 4 percent.
 While recent economic data has been generally positive, there have been some unexpected signs of weakness. 
 The Commerce Department said Friday that the economy grew at a 3.7 percent annual rate in the third quarter, slower than the 4.3 percent consensus forecast gathered by Bloomberg News. The University of Michigan index of consumer confidence for October fell, but much less than expected, and the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index last month jumped to its highest level since 1988. 
 Industrial production came in at a weaker-than-expected 0.1 percent in September. The forecast was for growth of 0.3 percent. But September retail sales rose a robust 1.5 percent, twice Wall Street's expectation. 
 Orders for durable goods, which include cars, appliances and airplanes, were up 0.2 percent in September, less than half the forecast. But without transportation, orders surged by 1.7 percent in September, almost six times the forecast of 0.3 percent growth. 
 David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said, ''The economy is still on a pretty solid growth projection.''
 But he added that ''the signals of late have been a little mixed, reflecting the impact of high oil prices and, perhaps, some election uncertainty.''
 ''The key to sustaining strong economic growth is going to be job growth,'' he said, ''and that is why the jobs report this week is so important.''
 Wall Street analysts are predicting that 175,000 new nonfarm jobs were created in October. That is above both the 170,222 monthly average for this year and the monthly average of 136,769 since job growth resumed in September 2003.
 If the jobs forecast is on the mark, which it rarely is, there will still have been a net loss of 646,000 nonfarm jobs since January 2001, the month when President Bush took office.
 Without government jobs, that net loss would be 1.6 million through September.

MANUFACTURING GAUGE -- Another important indicator will come in tomorrow's report from the Institute of Supply Management, which measures the health of the manufacturing sector. That gauge is expected to be at 58 in October, down slightly from 58.5 in September. A reading of 50 or more means that the manufacturing sector is growing. The index has slipped from a two-decade high of 63.6 in January.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks change in nonfarm payrolls for 2003 and 2004. (portion of 2004 is estimated.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); STATISTICS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAIL SALES (52%) United States Economy; Labor

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



714 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 3496 words

HEADLINE: The Hope of Charity, Reflected in 3 Working Families Who Found Help

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Around the corner from a multimillion-dollar housing construction site at 105th Street and Central Park West, a couple in a subsidized apartment care for an ailing son. They are worried about how to pay an escalating electric bill. If their service is suspended, the machine pumping nutrient-rich milk into their son's stomach will stop.
 In Brooklyn, a woman takes custody of her teenage brother, adding to personal strains that include her grandmother's death, a divorce, and the difficulty of raising her daughter alone. 
 And in Yonkers, another single mother is trying to rebuild her life and provide shelter for her six children after a fire destroyed their home. 
 For these people, and many others among the working poor, every day is a struggle. They work hard in jobs that are the backbone of New York City -- building superintendents, police dispatchers, health aides, service industry employees. But for all their toil, their resources are all but exhausted by family needs, rent, and mounting bills. They can't seem to get by, let alone get ahead. 
 According to recent reports, the hardships of the working poor persist despite signs of economic recovery. The statistics, from the Community Service Society, a New York agency that assists low-income families, say that one-fifth of residents live below the poverty line, defined by the federal government as an income of $18,392 for a family of four. Of those residents, two-thirds are members of working families, whose wages are too low to pay for basic needs like housing and food.
 The problem is echoed on a national scale, according to a recent study by the Working Poor Families Project, a nonprofit group that assists low-income families. The group found that more than 9.2 million working families were low-income, with 2.5 million of those officially in poverty. 
 For the working poor -- many of whom are trying to survive without safety nets like savings, job security or health insurance -- even a little help can make a huge difference.
 For more than nine decades, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been providing that help to thousands of New Yorkers.
 Today, the Neediest Cases begins its 93rd annual fund-raising campaign, which will run through Jan. 31. The fund has been aiding and comforting New York's homeless, gravely ill and poverty-stricken since 1912. They draw hope and strength from the fund, through the services of seven New York charities that are its beneficiaries.
 ''From our partnerships with the seven Neediest Cases agencies, we know how skilled they are in helping people who are hungry, hurt, confused or in turmoil beyond their control,'' said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation. The foundation underwrites all the administrative costs, so all donations go directly to those in need. 
 Those contributions cover an array of services: life-saving medicine and medical equipment, utilities, rents, even hot meals. The elderly can find companionship and purpose through volunteer programs financed with Neediest Cases money. The young can find the resources they need to help them excel at school and enter the work force.
 The working poor are among those who benefit the most from the Neediest Cases. At present, workers in New York from the ages of 18 to 64 who are below the poverty level average $6.77 an hour, according to the Economic Policy Institute. In comparison, in 2003 the average wage per hour in New York City was $19.03. 
 At such a level, even working extra hours or a second job is unlikely to make a meaningful difference. The Neediest Cases tries to fill the gap.
 ''The New York Times Neediest Cases is both window and mirror for its readers,'' said John Ruskay, executive vice president and chief executive of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven charities supported by the fund. ''It is a window into another New York, one that is far away, even if it so close. It is a mirror that provokes all of us who read it to look at our own lives and see what kind of responsibility we have to help our neighbors.''

In the Beginning
 The Neediest Cases tradition began almost a century ago, on a frigid Christmas Day in 1911, when, according to accounts, the New York Times publisher, Adolph S. Ochs, encountered a shabbily dressed beggar.
 Stirred by the homeless man's plight, Mr. Ochs established the Neediest Cases, and the newspaper first sought contributions in 1912. In the beginning, The Times printed 100 short profiles of the city's most disadvantaged people. Today, daily articles tell the stories of New Yorkers who are at their lowest point, but finding help and hope through the Neediest Cases.
 Contributions range from just a few dollars to $1 million from organizations like the Starr Foundation. Since its inception, the fund has raised close to $207 million for New Yorkers in crisis and despair, including those affected by the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Over the last three years, the Neediest Cases raised nearly $27 million. (The Neediest Cases invests contributions from trusts and estates of more than $50,000 in an endowment. The income, recently more than $1 million a year, goes into the next year's campaign.)
 The 2003-2004 campaign, which raised $8.3 million, was the third most successful in the fund's history. An unsteady economy translated into fewer donors than in the previous year, though donors on average gave more generously, according to Mr. Rosenthal. A new survey by Community Service Society, one of the fund's seven beneficiary charities, paints another challenging picture for this year's campaign. 
 The society surveyed 1,300 New York City residents, including 1,000 low-income and 300 upper-income New Yorkers. Among the findings: 9 out of 10 lower-income residents say that their family finances have not improved over last year; 36 percent say they are worse off. The biggest problem facing New Yorkers, both groups of respondents say, is finding and keeping a job. 
 For Ana and Manuel Acevedo, the worries run even deeper.

A Rare Disease
 In their apartment on West 104th Street in Manhattan, the sound of coughing echoes down the stark hallway. The sound rouses Ana, 47, her husband, Manuel, 52, and their 13-year-old daughter, Stephanie. They nearly collide rushing to the bedroom to assist the Acevedos' son, Jose, 21. 
 Although he lies at a 45-degree angle to keep saliva from his lungs, it often pools in his throat. The first person through the door grabs the suction tube and gently puts it inside his mouth.
 His throat cleared, Jose rests on his pillow. His family relaxes, for an all-too-brief moment. 
 Depending on the day, Mr. Acevedo and Stephanie will go back to their rooms, but Ms. Acevedo will remain and sleep on a futon. She is careful not to disturb a feeding machine pumping nutrient-rich milk through a tube to her son's stomach.
 Jose suffers from an obscure degenerative disease resembling adrenoleukodystrophy, a rare deterioration of the fatty myelin sheath around the nerve fibers in his brain.
 To the Acevedos, it seems not so long ago that Jose ran and played with other children. 
 ''He was completely healthy,'' his mother said as she opened a photo album chronicling her son's transition from active boy to severely disabled adult.
 ''It started at 3 with urinary incontinence,'' she said. Then his speech and balance began to falter. At the time, the family lived in the Dominican Republic.
 There, the medical tests were inconclusive. The doctors advised the Acevedos to seek help in the United States; to do so, they gave up careers as engineers.
 Settling in New York City, they confronted new obstacles -- a language barrier, diminishing savings and a search for work. Mr. Acevedo was hired by a construction company in Albany, while his wife stayed in the city to navigate a complex medical system. 
 For Jose there were more tests, but few answers. ''Even 15 years later they don't know what he has,'' his mother said.
 Jose's abilities degenerated. He can no longer walk or speak. 
 ''It became too much to take,'' Mrs. Acevedo said of managing her troubled family with her husband so far away. 
 He returned to New York City, where he took a series of menial jobs before finding the superintendent's position he has held for the past 10 years, earning $300 a week.
 His employer provides their apartment, but their resources are meager. Medical bills and a medical attendant are paid by Medicaid. But there is much Medicaid does not cover. They spend $2,000 a year for diapers alone. 
 After 9/11 their situation became more complicated when Mrs. Acevedo lost her $25,000-a-year administrative position. In the last three years, Jose has had four bouts of pneumonia, keeping him out of special education classes at Public School 79. He stopped taking food by mouth in the last year to reduce the probability of more pneumonia. Recently he spent a month in the hospital recovering from a back operation to straighten a progressive curvature of his spine related to his illness. 
 Besides the feeding machine, Jose relies on several other devices. He lies on a warm electric pad to improve his circulation. He can't regulate his body temperature, so an air conditioner and heater cool and warm his room as needed.
 The various machines have increased the family's utility bill drastically. Consolidated Edison worked out a payment plan. But the family still could not keep up, and in July they owed $2,528.79. 
 ''We had no way to pay,'' said Mrs. Acevedo. ''There was nothing left to sell.'' She had sold her jewelry, including her wedding ring, long ago.
 But she found help on July 26, 2004, when her St. Mary's Hospital caseworker contacted the office of Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, in St. Cecilia's Parish. The archdiocese is another of the seven agencies supported by the Neediest Cases.
 ''When I heard her case, and the situation with the son, we knew it was an emergency,'' said Arlex Cardona, a case manager at St. Cecilia's Parish Services. Mr. Cardona drew on the Neediest Cases to pay the Con Edison bill. 
 ''It feels good to trust in humanity,'' said Mrs. Acevedo ''It is so surprising, when you have nothing and you are helped by other people.''
 Recently the family encountered another setback. Mr. Acevedo lost his job after an elderly resident's complaint. They will be allowed to stay in their subsidized apartment -- if they find work. "If you asked me if I change something, I would say no,'' said Ms. Acevedo, clutching the photo album. 
 ''I would do the same,'' she continued. ''Until the day we can't offer him the proper care, we will do everything we can for him.'' Her eyes welled. ''He knows how much we love him; he is happy.''

Poor and Single
 The Acevedos, married 25 years, have found strength in each other -- but many of the working poor are singles who do not have the same sort of family support in a crisis. 
 Single mothers head 24 percent of the families in New York City, compared with 14.8 percent in the rest of the nation, according to the Community Social Service survey.
 Nicole Patrick, 33, lives in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and works from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. Thursday through Monday as a police dispatcher. She earns about $14 an hour. 
 Two years ago, she had to make a life-altering decision.
 Her grandmother, Evelyn Randle, a powerful surrogate mother to Ms. Patrick, was dying of cancer at age 83. The situation was especially dire because Ms. Randle was the foster mother of Ms. Patrick's teenage half brother, Jason Washington. 
 Ms. Patrick barely knew Jason, who is now 15, but knew his hardships all too well. Before her grandmother was granted custody, he was in foster care because of their mother's drug dependency. 
 ''She spoke with me about taking him in, but my marriage was rocky at the time. We were divorcing,'' Ms. Patrick said. 
 Despite her personal strain and the responsibilities of caring for a daughter, Felicia, now 7, Ms. Patrick became Jason's legal guardian in 2002. 
 Ms. Patrick and her daughter moved into a government-subsidized apartment in a project building in Crown Heights. She took on her new challenges: Jason's well-being, $502.71 in rent, and other bills.
 Her relationship with Jason began unsteadily. When she was at work, it was easy for him to break her rules, and to find trouble. ''He was fighting, coming home late, and missing classes,'' Ms. Patrick said.
 Feeling alone and powerless, she went to the family court office seeking disciplinary help. 
 ''I wanted to send him to strict boot camp,'' she said. Family Court referred her to the Bedford-Stuyvesant Family Center, which is supported by the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, another beneficiary agency of the Neediest Cases. 
 ''They were adjusting to their new roles, from sibling to guardian,'' said the family's social worker, Kimberly Sandwall. ''We focused on developmental needs and parenting skills.''
 Together, they established a schedule of individual and joint counseling to forge communication and respect. 
 Jason was initially reluctant. He had found counseling unhelpful in the past. But this time was different.
 ''I could talk more,'' he said. ''They listened to me.'' Through his dedication to the program, which includes attending peer groups and career awareness classes, his outlook has changed. 
 ''Now he has a different understanding of the family,'' Ms. Patrick said. ''I have toned down. We don't argue as much.'' 
 And when money was tightest, the center provided Jason with a MetroCard for traveling to his meetings. For the family, there was access to a food pantry.
 Resources were tested again when Jason needed school clothes. Clothing competed against another need: unexpected travel costs. During the Republican National Convention, Ms. Patrick's hours at the call center were extended. So Felicia went to her father's, and Jason joined relatives in Pittsburgh. Giving Jason a getaway for two weeks was a good thing, but paying for it was a different story. 
 ''Paying the fare, I couldn't buy him clothes he needed for school,'' said Ms. Patrick. Ms. Sandwall came up with solution. 
 ''She said there was a fund that could help; it was such a relief,'' Ms. Patrick said. She and Jason were given $255 from the Neediest Cases for an itemized shopping list that included four shirts, five pairs of jeans, sneakers, and two belts. 
 The support of the center and the fund have helped Ms. Patrick feel less alone. As for life at home, ''it's gotten better,'' she said, smiling at Jason. ''It's gotten better.''

Starting Over
 Among the growing ranks of the working poor, many, like Desiree Marrow, 37, discover that poverty is not necessarily the result of one event, but of many. 
 At various points in Ms. Marrow's life, circumstances seemed to conspire against her. After her parents divorced when she was a child in Mount Vernon, N.Y., her working mother left her care to her aunts and a grandmother, she said. 
 ''They were always out,'' Ms. Marrow said during an interview at her Yonkers apartment. ''It was up to me to make my own decisions.''
 At 16 she had a child, Ksawn Collymore-bey, now 21; two years later came Makeba Marrow, now 19. Ms. Marrow's relationship with the father ended after four years. 
 She continued into two more relationships and had four more children, Jennara Marrow, 15, Karizma Marrow, 11, Irvin Campbell Jr., 8 and Dominique Campbell, 7.
 Men, it seemed, were full of empty promises. She recited the offenses -- they were abusive, they used drugs, they were in and out of jail. 
 She developed her own problem with drugs, and began selling them. Each night, her sleep was restless. She feared the police knocking at her door. A drug arrest could mean jail, or even the loss of her children. 
 ''I had to get myself together,'' she said. ''My kids had seen my down, now they had to see my ups.'' 
 Two years ago she enrolled in an outpatient rehab program. Clean and sober, she was ready to work. Her job search began when she read about a training program offered by Westchester Jewish Community Services, funded by UJA-Federation of New York, an agency supported by the Neediest Cases. 
 ''We wanted to help her stay on track,'' said Joan Thomas, her caseworker, recalling their first session. 
 With agency support, Ms. Marrow earned a certificate in home aid. She works 30 hours a week, for two clients, earning $214 a week.
 ''I like giving back and taking care of people,'' she said.
 Celebrating a job and a drug-free year, Ms. Marrow was hit with a setback that can devastate a paycheck-to-paycheck family. A fire caused by faulty wiring nearly destroyed her family's apartment. ''I literally had to start over,'' she said. 
 In two weeks, she found another apartment on the same block. To cover the rent of $1,250 and other living expenses, she receives $500 from the Human Resources Administration, and uses her weekly salary as a home assistant. She doesn't receive any child support. Her daughter Makeba contributes $200 a month from her sales position at Old Navy, and the family gets food stamps.
 Apart from the few things salvaged from her old place -- her bedroom set and a few dressers -- the apartment was unfurnished.
 ''I was asking everybody I knew for anything they could donate,'' she said. Some friends gave her thin mattresses for the children, who use them to sleep on the floor. Her father gave her a television.
 Ms. Marrow's living room would have remained bare, but Ms. Thomas, her caseworker, used the Neediest Cases fund to provide $800 for a couch, two chairs, an ottoman and two tables with two lamps. 
 The furniture helped restore her sense of dignity, and now she has another goal: a nursing degree. ''I am trying to improve myself for kids,'' she said. ''They are all I have.''

A Contribution to Build On
 The Starr Foundation, a private charitable group established by Cornelius Vander Starr, founder of the insurer American International Group, has donated $1 million in stock to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund for the fifth consecutive year. 
 ''Few institutions do more for distressed New Yorkers, both with its extensive direct grants and with monumental gifts like this for the Neediest,'' said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Foundation, which administers the Neediest Cases. ''And once again, by making its gift at the start of the campaign, the Starr Foundation creates for others what we hope is motivating momentum.''
 Its reach is broad, but the Starr Foundation's biggest areas of giving, according to Florence A. Davis, president of the Starr Foundation, include education, health care and other needs such as food programs for the poor, job training, and literacy programs. 
 ''The fact of the matter is that the solutions to poverty are very difficult and necessarily long term,'' Ms. Davis said. ''And in the meantime, we have to sustain a human level of existence for people in our city. That's what has attracted us to the Neediest Cases Fund, because the funds are really intended for families who need help now -- families who will otherwise become homeless, or families coming out of homelessness that need that extra help paying the heating bill.''
 Since its creation in 1955, the Starr Foundation has given $1.5 billion in grants. The group -- one of the largest private philanthropies in the United States, began its involvement with the Neediest Cases Fund in 1980, when it donated $33,500. This year's gift brings the Starr Foundation's cumulative donations to the Neediest Cases to about $8.4 million.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Manuel and Ana Acevedo caring for Jose, 21, their son who has an undiagnosed degenerative illness. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
Nicole Patrick and Jason Washington, her half brother for whom she became legal guardian in 2002 after their grandmother's death. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 Desiree Marrow and her children, from left, Jennara, Irvin Campbell, Karizma, Ksawn Collymore-bey, Dominique Campbell and Makeba. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CHARITIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CHILDREN (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); PHILANTHROPY (64%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Philanthropy; New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Starr Foundation

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: Kari Haskell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



715 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Wasteland in Sudan, Empathy in Newark

BYLINE: By FRAN SCHUMER

 BODY:
IT'S hard to drag yourself out on a Monday night in autumn, but earlier this month, those who drove to downtown Newark to hear more about the latest hellhole on the planet were oddly energized. There, in a beautiful museum that is underused -- the Newark Museum -- a group of Christians, Jews, African-Americans, Africans and Hispanics converged to learn more about what they could do about the devastating war in Sudan.
 ''I don't want my grandchildren wondering why we didn't do anything while this was going on,'' United States Representative Donald M. Payne of New Jersey said, echoing a sentiment that was common throughout the audience.
 The conference, organized by the Rutgers Institute on Ethnicity, the N.A.A.C.P. of Newark and other groups, featured Mr. Payne, who showed photographs of smiling children and sad-eyed mothers driven from their homes in Darfur in western Sudan. Maria Sliwa, a leader against slavery in the Sudan, and Gerald Martone of the International Rescue Committee, described the onslaught of the Janjaweed, Arab herders who have murdered, tortured and pillaged Darfurians, using the rape of women and, in some cases, children as young as 8 years old, as a principal weapon. 
 ''Some things are so bad that in fact you can get a coalition together,'' said Allyson Gall of the American Jewish Committee, a principal organizer of the conference.
 For people whose knowledge of the situation is limited, the evening provided a crash course in global politics and human fallibility. On the 10th anniversary of the atrocities in Rwanda, a combination of economic scarcity, ethnic rivalry -- both sides are Muslim, though one side is made up of Arab tribesmen and the other African villagers -- and a power struggle by the government in Khartoum, the capital, has cost at least 70,000 lives and displaced 1.5 million people. During a typical assault by the Janjaweed -- it means ''evil horseman'' -- the men rush to save their cattle and the women rush to save their children. When the women fail, they are raped and maimed. Even then, some return in search of lost children, whose bodies or heads they often find stuffed in wells.
 Asked why she came, Clarice Jackson, a retired teacher and lawyer from Orange, asked how she could not. ''We're slowing down in our activities, but we just had to do this,'' said Mrs. Jackson, who attended the conference with her husband, Alfred. Looking back on the close to, but not capacity, crowd, she expressed her one disappointment: ''That auditorium should've been full.''
 Harry Zutz, 80, a retired physician from Maplewood, said his motivation for coming stemmed from his reading last year of Samantha Power's Pulitzer-Prize-winning, ''A Problem From Hell: America and the Age of Genocide.'' 
 ''Being Jewish, I've become obsessed with genocide and ethnic cleansing,'' said Dr. Zutz, a former member of Health Volunteers Overseas, which trains medical personnel in underdeveloped countries. ''Survivors of the Holocaust say, 'Never again,' and yet there's this insouciance when it's another ethnic group involved.''
 Among a handful of Darfurians at the conference, Ishag Ahmed, treasurer of the Darfur Rehabilitation Project, said he hoped that foreign troops would intervene, but given the United States' involvement in Iraq, and the United Nations' resistance on the issue -- China does business in the Sudan, where oil was discovered in the 1970's -- he doubted such a solution was imminent. 
 Meantime, like other Darfurians -- about 20 live in New Jersey -- he eagerly awaits news from home. His mother, a brother and nine nieces and nephews survived a rampage by the Janjaweed, and are now safe, thanks to money provided by Mr. Ahmed and another brother.
 Other Darfurians are not so lucky. Starving in makeshift camps with scant supplies, the displaced are rapidly dying. Asked about priorities, the panel said that the village elders cited not only food and water, but schools. The day goes more quickly when the children have something to think about other than food.
 ''In America, we're all preoccupied with the election -- and rightfully so,'' Dr. Zutz said. ''Meanwhile, this goes on. '' 
 The son of Ukrainian immigrants who attended public school in Delaware, Dr. Zutz said that his own evolution as a global citizen happened slowly. ''I can't believe how stupid and unsophisticated we were,'' he said. ''It never occurred to me until years later, for instance, that there weren't any blacks in my school.''
 His perspective broadened in the 1960's when he read Rachel Carson's ''Silent Spring,'' and books about world poverty and hunger. Eventually, he enrolled at Drew University, and received a master's degree in theological studies. During the next 20 years, he and his wife visited Africa, India, Afghanistan and Bangladesh as members of the health volunteers.
 ''Forgive my verbosity,'' he said after a long conversation on Darfur. ''I find so few people who are interested in the subject.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); RELIGION (71%); ETHNICITY (69%); TORTURE (66%) Conventions and Conferences

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (55%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (54%) Rutgers, the State University; National Assn for the Advancement of Colored People

PERSON: DONALD M PAYNE (79%); SAMANTHA POWER (52%) Donald M (Repr) Payne; Fran Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) SUDAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); RWANDA (79%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



716 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Flu Vaccine, and Answers, in the Drug Capital

BYLINE: By KIRSTY SUCATO

DATELINE: PEAPACK 

 BODY:
ON a recent brisk morning, more than 400 elderly people some with canes, walkers and wheelchairs -- began lining up outside the Borough of Gladstone and Peapack Municipal Complex here as early as 4 a.m. for a chance to get a rare flu shot.
 The irony of such a sight -- here amid the wealth and privilege of Somerset County with its hilly horse farms, stone churches and country clubs -- did not escape the notice of a large crowd, the likes of which had not been seen since Police Chief Greg Skinner was sworn in a year and a half ago. After all, this is the very epicenter of pharmaceutical power, only miles from the headquarters of such industry giants as Aventis, Merck and Pfizer.
 Indeed, of the world's 20 largest pharmaceutical companies, 15 have major facilities in New Jersey, employing 63,000 people and adding $23.8 billion a year to the state's economy, according to industry groups. 
 ''I believe in our country 100 percent and I back the U.S.A.,'' said 71-year-old Judy M. Peres of Far Hills. ''However, for something like this to happen is almost unbelievable. For all these old and sick people, for them to have to stand outside for an hour and a half is absurd.''
 She hoped her husband, David, 76, would not be late for his next appointment -- for radiation treatment, at Morristown Memorial Hospital -- and that his cashmere sweater, jacket and fedora would fight the autumn chill as he sat on a folding metal chair she had brought from home. 
 The friendly chatter and the free coffee and donuts supplied by the Friends of the Peapack and Gladstone Library did not mollify her.
 ''He's a terminally ill cancer patient and the last thing in the world he needs is flu also,'' Mrs. Peres said. ''That could do him in. Now he was out there for an hour and a half so he really needs the flu shot now. He'll probably be sick tomorrow.'' 
 Actually the couple and the 409 others vaccinated at the clinic that day were fortunate. Lucy A. Forgione of the Bernards Township Health Department had scored 500 doses of vaccine from the Visiting Nurse Association of Somerset Hills, a private agency that had purchased vaccine directly from Aventis Pasteur, the world's largest manufacturer of flu vaccine. 
 Like hundreds of thousands of health workers nationwide, Ms. Forgione was left hanging on Oct. 5 when her supplier, Chiron Corporation, defaulted on its promise to provide more than half of the nation's supply of flu vaccine -- 46 to 48 million doses -- because it was contaminated with bacteria, resulting in one of the worst crises in the history of the nation's flu vaccination program.
 Vaccination clinics nationwide are being canceled indefinitely just as the influenza virus begins its nasty march, bringing muscle aches, sneezing, hacking coughs, fever and even death to the frail and elderly. About 36,000 Americans die each year from the flu.
 In New Jersey, more than 20 hospitals and most nursing homes, which house 60,000 residents, are still without supplies. Even with an additional 2.7 million doses promised by Aventis in January and another 1.5 million proposed to be imported from Canada, health agencies will receive slightly more than half of the flu vaccine that they ordered, said New Jersey's health commissioner, Dr. Clifton R. Lacy.
 Officials are trying to determine how much vaccine remains in New Jersey and get a count of residents who need it most, he said. Nationwide, about 60 million doses will be available and about 43 million people are considered high priority. 
 ''We will have a significant shortfall,'' Dr. Lacey said, ''but if you reallocate it optimally you can satisfy the need for the priority groups.'' 
 For now, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have issued guidelines urging that priority be given to people over 65, those with chronic medical conditions, children on long-term aspirin therapy, pregnant women, infants 6 to 23 months, health care workers, residents of nursing homes and long-term care facilities, and people who live with babies under 6 months old.
 Health officials who have spent years proselytizing for flu vaccine are now left urging residents to wash their hands frequently, cover their mouths when coughing and sneezing, stay home when they are sick and seek antiviral medicines that can slow the effects of the flu virus.
 ''The sad thing is that people will not get immunized,'' said Karen Ellis, the community health program manager for the Visiting Nurse Association of Somerset Hills. ''It's just a fact. You can't shut down half of your incoming vaccine without ramifications. You just can't do it.''
 In the last week, the State Legislature passed and Governor McGreevey approved a measure authorizing the health commissioner to redirect vaccine supplies to the most needy and impose a $500 fine on health care providers who give flu vaccine to people outside the high priority category.
 But for people like Anita A. Schwartz, a Basking Ridge resident in her 70's, the measures are too little, too late. 
 Her search for a flu shot was stressful, and Ms. Schwartz says, something that should have been avoided by better planning. It led her from her doctor's office to a Rite Aid Pharmacy to a clinic at the King Super Market in Mendham, where she and her 84-year-old husband waited in line for two hours before leaving because of the cold. Finally, a phone call to the Basking Ridge municipal building alerted her to the clinic at Peapack and Gladstone. And she was one of the lucky ones.
 ''I feel the government was remiss,'' she said. ''I feel that you do not put this kind of responsibility in the hands of supermarkets.''
 Others were more forgiving.
 ''I don't think we can blame anybody,'' said F. Arthur Winter, a retired chemical engineer from Basking Ridge. ''We were caught short because the British government shut the supplier down.'' 
 His wife, Dolores agreed, but added, ''We have a lot of talent in the United States and we just need to address the problem to make it widely available and to recognize that it needs to be widely available.'' 
 Ms. Winter mused about the dozens of pharmaceutical companies that make their home in New Jersey and said dryly, ''Even though we are seeing all these corporations, we shouldn't feel that entitles us in any way to anything different.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jay Abberman of Bernardsville getting a vaccination at the Gladstone and Peapack Municipal Complex. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Brother, can you spare a flu shot? People preparing for a flu shot clinic at the Gladstone and Peapack Municipal Complex. Of the world's 20 largest pharmaceutical companies, 15 have major facilities in New Jersey -- not that it's helping residents get hold of flu vaccine. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (92%); INFLUENZA (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); AGING (90%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); BIOLOGICS MFG (77%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CANCER (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (72%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); HISTORY (64%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); BACTERIA (60%); POLICE FORCES (55%) Influenza; Vaccination and Immunization; Aged

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (83%); PFIZER INC (58%); SANOFI SA (58%); VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION OF BOSTON INC (51%); VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION OF WISCONSIN (51%); VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION HOME HEALTH SERVICES (51%); VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION OF HOUSTON INC (51%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (83%); NOVN (SWX) (83%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); SNY (NYSE) (58%); SANF (BIT) (58%); SAN (PAR) (58%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Kirsty Sucato

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Peapack (Nj)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



717 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2251 words

HEADLINE: As Far as Political Polls, N.J. Owns the Pole Position

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
SET off from the parking lot of Building 502 at the Carnegie Center there is a well-kept basketball court, and Frank Newport -- long and lanky -- looks like he would be a natural. 
 But these days, Mr. Newport, editor in chief of the Gallup Poll, has been spending about 16 hours a day inside the nondescript building trying to figure out whom the American people will put in the White House.
 Come Tuesday, the eyes of Texas and Massachusetts and all points in between will shift a bit north on Route 206, to downtown Somerville, where Edison Media Research will be tabulating exit polls for a consortium of television networks and major media outlets (including The New York Times) so they can declare -- perhaps -- a winner.
 For Gallup, it has been a bit of a bumpy campaign trail. 
 ''You have to have tough skin sometimes,'' said Mr. Newport of Gallup. ''You should read our e-mails. You show Bush going ahead and you get the Democrats railing. Once we show Kerry doing better, the Republicans hate that.''
 Ever since George Gallup came East from Iowa and found his dream farmhouse in Princeton, the town has been an epicenter of political polling. Generations of pollsters learned their trade at Gallup, with some splitting off to start their own polling organizations.
 ''Like in Silicon Valley, where tech firms spread upon each other, because Gallup was here, many public opinion polling firms have sprung up in and around Princeton,'' he said. ''You get one major company in a geographic area, like in Detroit, and others naturally spring about.''
 The Gallup progeny are myriad. 
 Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, which conducts several political and policy polls, is a former president of the Gallup Organization. Mr. Kohut founded -- though he is no longer associated with -- Princeton Survey Research Associates International, which does the Newsweek Poll. 
 And many of those who have worked for Gallup over the years were products of Rutgers University, which oversees the Eagleton Institute of Politics, home of the Star-Ledger/Eagleton-Rutgers Poll. Even the Texas Poll, the oldest state poll, has a New Jersey lineage, since Gallup taught Joseph Belden -- who founded the Texas Poll in 1937 -- polling techniques.
 Nor does the state's symbiotic relationship with polls end there. New Jersey -- for years considered a bellwether state because of its variegated population -- became a ripe subject for polling. Gallup and Eagleton have long monitored New Jersey politics, policy, and lifestyles, and in 2001, Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison started the PublicMind Poll, concentrating on New Jersey issues. Even Quinnipiac University in Connecticut finds New Jersey interesting enough to poll -- one of only five states it monitors.
 ''We could be in California, we could be anywhere,'' said Larry Hugick, chairman of Princeton Survey Research Associates, who worked at Gallup under Mr. Kohut. ''But many of us have come from New Jersey, and this is a great place to stay. It's a good place for fertile minds.''
 In the cases of Quinnipiac and Fairleigh Dickinson, there is a dual purpose in polling. It is both an academic exercise underwritten by the universities, and a way to get the school's name out in public.
 ''We felt we had a great collection of political scientists at Fairleigh Dickinson and it occurred to us that one of the best ways to engage them in the university was to give them the opportunity to do public opinion research,'' said Peter Woolley, executive director of the FDU PublicMind Poll.
 If it were not for the poll -- ubiquitous during campaign season -- Quinnipiac University would be largely unknown outside Connecticut, obscured by schools like Yale, Wesleyan, and Trinity.
 ''Colleges are in the knowledge business,'' said Maurice Carroll, a former reporter for Newsday and The New York Times who is director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. ''But this is a serious thing. We didn't just make a tiddlywinks team to get the school publicity.''
 During the presidential polling season, it seems that all of the New Jersey-based polls are tripping over each other to get out the latest, and sometimes cutest, results.
 For instance, three weeks ago Mr. Newport started a six-to eight-minute weekday Webcast to illustrate Gallup's polls. While the Webcast is primarily produced in a studio down the hall from his office, Mr. Newport -- with some trepidation -- moved it outside to the parking lot to explain a poll on gas prices.
 Then there is the PublicMind poll, which dipped into the offbeat a bit. In early October, it released a survey showing that more people thought the television mobster Tony Soprano would vote for George W. Bush over John Kerry, mostly because they thought Mr. Soprano would think Mr. Bush a strong leader. The same poll noted that New Jerseyans were generally not swayed by Bruce Springsteen's endorsement of Mr. Kerry -- that those who were going to vote for Mr. Kerry would not care whether Mr. Springsteen endorsed him.
 Gimmicks notwithstanding, most of the pollsters agree that this year's presidential race -- because of its closeness and volatility -- can stand on its own. And while they have not changed their methodologies, there clearly are things going on that have made this race difficult to poll about. For instance, there has been a lot of talk about people who only own cellphones and cannot be reached by pollsters using their ordinary method of random sample dialing
 For his part, Mr. Hugick of Princeton Surveys dismisses that notion.
 ''There are certainly more cellphone-only homes than there were, but I don't know that there are enough to worry about,'' he said. ''It is a disproportionate amount of low-income youth, which tends to vote less anyway, and also somewhat equivalent to what in the past would be no-phone homes. ''There are other issues, though: call-blocking, caller-ID, and just the propensity to not get on the phone with someone you don't know.''
 To Jeffrey Levine, director of the Center for Public Interest Polling at the Eagleton Institute for Politics at Rutgers, predicting turnout this year is particularly challenging because of the unusually large number of young people who registered to vote this fall. 
 ''It is always a challenge to reach younger people,'' said Mr. Levine. ''They are more transitory. They tend not to be home. In low-turnout years, they tend not to vote, but we are just not sure what will happen this year.''
 Mr. Hugick and the other pollsters made it clear that it is not necessarily an issue of counting the homes with only cellphones, but replacing them in a survey to get the right mix of age, registration, income, race, and other demographics to make a poll accurate. That still means they have to make more calls just to get the responses necessary for an accurate survey -- usually about 1,000 people properly distributed in terms of demographics.
 ''That's the key, whether you get a good sample,'' said Mr. Hugick. ''It's what got Dr. Gallup his reputation in the first place.''
 In 1935, fresh from the University of Iowa with a Ph.D., George Gallup moved East to be a researcher for a New York advertising agency. Then a friend suggested that he look at a piece of property in Princeton, a perfect place to raise his young family. In his leisure time, mostly at home, Mr. Gallup indulged in his pastime, political polling.
 In 1936, the presidential race -- for a time, anyway -- seemed to be a runaway for the Republican challenger, Alf Landon. The Democratic incumbent, Franklin D. Roosevelt, had not extricated the country from Depression and fascist governments were emerging throughout Europe. The most prominent poll of the day, conducted by the magazine Literary Digest, showed Mr. Landon winning. Its method was getting lists, primarily of magazine subscribers and automobile buyers, and mailing them postcards to return. More than two million people responded.
 Yet Gallup knew the poll was flawed, and he was determined on getting the proper random sampling of the voting population. He maintained that the Literary Digest had severely undercounted farmers and others less affluent -- people who would not necessarily subscribe to magazines or have recently bought cars. His result was the same as the election -- overwhelmingly for Roosevelt.
 ''His reputation was established, but more importantly, his methodology was vindicated,'' said Mr. Newport.
 Even so, Mr. Gallup did not quit his day job right away. Election polling did not have the market it does today. Nonetheless, he took his time establishing his business in Princeton, eventually building it up into a large marketing and polling organization. When Mr. Gallup died in 1984, his children took over the business for a while, but eventually merged the Gallup Organization with a Nebraska company in 1988. The official international headquarters for the Gallup Organization is in Washington, while the national headquarters is in Omaha. But the Gallup Poll, the political polling arm, stayed in Princeton.
 ''Most people thought George Gallup was a professor, but he had nothing to do with the university,'' said Mr. Newport. ''But we like being in Princeton. I think it's more we like being on neutral ground. If you are in New York or Washington, you are in kind of a bubble. Here in Princeton we are a little more removed. Our job here is to represent what people across the country are thinking. I don't need to be in Washington prowling the streets and interviewing staffers. I don't care what they think.''
 That does not mean that pollsters here do not get edgy about accusations that they are unfair. For instance, this year Gallup has been accused of leaning more toward Mr. Bush since it assumes, from its research, that Republicans tend to be more likely voters than Democrats. 
 Mr. Hugick said the point of the Newsweek poll is to see what people are thinking at that moment rather than trying to project to Election Day, so it is prone to swing by the news of the day and anger one side or the other. Quinnipiac tends to use students as interviewers, in part reaching their academic purpose of involving students in the process, so it is criticized for not employing true professionals.
 ''What is most amazing this year is that people are, indeed, changing their minds during the fall,'' said Mr. Kohut, who commuted from Princeton to Washington for several years after going to work for Pew. He now lives in Washington and retains a small financial interest in Princeton Survey Research Associates. 
 ''When you have a dynamic scene, particularly at the end of an election, it is really exciting,'' he said. ''Your heart goes in your stomach.''
 Mr. Kohut said most pollsters welcome the newcomers like Fairleigh Dickinson's PublicMind. As he put it, the more good polls there are -- especially if they are asking complementary types of questions, such as in New Jersey -- the more the public benefits. For their part, the academics are particularly happy to be in the polling fray.
 ''We're political scientists by profession and political junkies by temperament,'' said Mr. Woolley of PublicMind. ''But we want to do it right and want to use our expertise to interpret the other polls, then figure out things they didn't ask and we want to know.''
 While several polling organizations have gone to Internet responses, those based in New Jersey are still wedded to the idea of personal contact by phone. For his part, Mr. Newport is sometimes nostalgic for the days of door-to-door surveys, which Gallup did not completely give up until the late 1980's.
 ''There are advantages to an in-person interview,'' he said, ''even if it is more labor-intensive.''
 He then explained: ''We used to laugh about the question, 'Are you overweight?' We thought that on the phone, more people were saying their weren't overweight. But you go out and see a 300-pound person, it's hard for them to say they aren't overweight.''
 Though they live in a world of seemingly raw data, the pollsters all claim there is art in their work, particularly in a close election. Mr. Newport pointed out that no incumbent since Harry Truman had an approval rating of less than 50 percent at election time and won -- and even Truman's number was calculated a couple of weeks before the election, so it may not have been accurate on Election Day. Mr. Bush has been teetering on the 50-percent line for weeks.
 Mr. Hugick's favorite last-minute indicator concerns the lingering undecided voters. If you take the last Gallup Poll -- the one being conducted today -- the undecideds usually break as much as 10-to-1 for the challenger. In other words, if the final poll is 48 percent to 48 percent, with 4 percent undecided, it is probable that Mr. Kerry will pick up enough of that vote to come out on top.
 ''In the 1992 election, though, almost all of that vote went to the third-party candidate, Ross Perot, so Bill Clinton didn't pick up much in the end,'' he said. ''What it seems is that if you are undecided at the very end, you are more likely just trying to figure out if you want the guy to stay in office. If you have gone that far, you probably really want a change.''
 By week's end, the pollsters will be able to relax, though only for a moment.
 ''Oh, then we're going to have to see what people think of Codey and how the governor's election will play out next year,'' said Mr. Carroll from Quinnipiac. ''We're addicted. It's a great living.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Feeling the pulse of the nation: Larry Hugick, above left, chairman of Princeton Survey Research Associates, and Frank Newport of Gallup, standing, preparing for a television segment. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BASKETBALL (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Princeton Survey Research Associates; Eagleton Institute; Star-Ledger (Newark, NJ); Gallup Poll

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (69%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (52%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



718 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: In the N.F.L., It's Not About Money, but It Is

BYLINE: By DAMON HACK

 BODY:
Down the interstate from an 80-foot tire, one of the many symbols of industry in Michigan, National Football League owners and the players association director, Gene Upshaw, met last week in Dearborn to haggle over what often inspires tussles between labor and management in business.
 ''When we say it's not about the money, it's about the money,'' Upshaw said in a telephone interview Wednesday. ''We're not making the economic argument that the players are being trampled on, but it's an argument on fairness and on what we contribute to the game. We may not get everything we want, but they're not going to get everything they want either. And we're going to get more.'' 
 With the National Hockey League in a lockout, and with memories of labor standoffs in Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association still fresh, the N.F.L. finds itself in a difficult renegotiation of its collective bargaining agreement.
 If the sides fail to negotiate an extension before 2007, that season will be played without a salary cap, a bargaining tool clearly in the union's favor and a situation the owners do not want to invite. The current agreement ends in the spring of 2008.
 Over the course of the league's 10-year-old pact -- which has been extended four times -- amicable relations have been maintained between union and management and particularly between Upshaw and Commissioner Paul Tagliabue. 
 Though neither side envisions a work stoppage, which last occurred in the N.F.L. in 1987, several factors could at least contribute to a debate, notably the union's desire for more money in the league's designated gross revenue pool, which pays the players under the salary cap system.
 Upshaw said the league's agreement had flaws in a 2004 economy, with the N.F.L. the most lucrative sport in North America.
 He said the eight highest-revenue teams were earning more money (as much as $100 million more) than other clubs through an increase in unshared revenue, the money each team pockets through its local ventures like radio broadcasts, stadium advertising and team magazines.
 Although some owners in smaller markets have voiced similar concerns, Tagliabue disagrees with Upshaw's view of the league's financial structure.
 ''To me, it's an oversimplification,'' Tagliabue said Thursday. ''First of all, some of the so-called haves, one of the things they do have is a lot of debt from having to build a stadium from their own family resources. If you're financing a stadium yourself, you're going to end up with a lot of annual construction costs, amortizing interest and costs that go to the bank, not to the owner.''
 Harold Henderson, the chairman of the N.F.L. management council and the league's chief negotiator, acknowledged that a disparity in revenue exists among some teams. But in finding common ground, Henderson said the league and the players' association ''have some issues on which we are very far apart.'' 
 ''When it came to ephedra, it was a pretty easy negotiation,'' Henderson said of discussions with Upshaw on the substance now banned by the league. ''This one, it's money. It's different. He's been pretty tough. It's pretty likely we'll get a deal done, but it's certainly not a positive thing and it's not a certain thing.''
 Stephen Ross, a professor of law at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said in a telephone interview Friday that he did not believe the N.F.L. would go the way of hockey, whose players were locked out 45 days ago and are scattering around the world in search of a game.
 ''The football union has this huge leverage that the hockey players don't, which is an uncapped year,'' Ross said of the 2007 season. ''Secondly, the have-not teams are sort of on Upshaw's side. He wants more money to be put into the designated gross revenue, which will increase the salary cap, and he would prefer that the money be shared among the owners.''
 Upshaw and Tagliabue, Ross said, are trying to figure out ''how do we make the pie as big as possible and then we can fight about splitting up the pie.''
 ''Gene Upshaw's problem isn't with Paul Tagliabue, Gene Upshaw's problem is with those eight teams,'' Ross said. ''The difficulty is that there are individual owners who are saying, 'I'd rather have a smaller pie and get a big piece than have a big juicy pie and get a small piece.'''
 Dan Rooney, the Pittsburgh Steelers owner, said he agreed with Upshaw that there was a noticeable disparity in revenue among teams, ''and we're not one of the ones that are at the bottom.''
 One factor that may actually spur an agreement is the concurrent negotiation involving the league's television contract, which is shared revenue among the owners that also pays the players' salaries.
 The current television deal, which ends after the 2005 season, is worth nearly $18 billion over eight years.
 The N.F.L. will garner a more lucrative television contract if the collective bargaining agreement is extended because it would show the networks that the sport will be stable into the next decade.
 The players, like the league, have benefited from labor peace.
 ''One thing we don't want is to kill the goose that laid the golden egg,'' Upshaw said.
 The owners do not want to edge too close to the uncapped year of 2007, where salaries would no longer have a ceiling.
 ''Anything that is unknown is better to be left unknown,'' said John York, the owner of the San Francisco 49ers.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Dolphins Sue Williams
 MIAMI, Oct. 30 (AP) -- The Miami Dolphins have filed a lawsuit in federal court against Ricky Williams, who an arbitrator has ruled owes the team more than $8.6 million for breaching his contract.
 A Dolphins spokesman, Harvey Greene, would not say Saturday if the lawsuit, filed Friday, was related to the arbitrator's ruling last month. 
 A phone call Saturday to Williams's lawyer, David Cornwell, was not immediately returned.
 Williams left the Dolphins shortly before training camp, saying he disagreed with the N.F.L. over a disputed drug test. He is seeking to return to the league. The Miami Herald has quoted Williams as saying he has failed three drug tests -- in May 2002, last December and sometime last spring.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Tagliabue (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STRIKES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%) Football; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%) National Football League Players' Assn

PERSON: Damon Hack

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



719 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; POSTINGS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: A Costly Summer For Renters in Manhattan

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Despite the siren song of low interest rates and the lure of home ownership, rents on Manhattan apartments rose during the peak summer rental season to the highest level in three years, according to two new market surveys.
 One survey, by Halstead Leasing Consultants, found that the average rent on a Manhattan apartment rose by more than 5 percent during the spring and summer, and 7 percent for the year, to $2,707 a month. Still, on average, rents remained nearly 9 percent below the peaks set in 2000, at the end of the stock market boom. 
 Another survey, by Citi Habitats, also showed a significant increase in rents, and a declining vacancy rate, to 1.7 percent, in 140 buildings tracked from month to month in Manhattan. Andrew Heiberger, president of Citi Habitats, said the vacancy rate was more than 4 percent after Sept. 11, 2001, while it is as much as 10 percent nationwide.
 The Halstead report found that rents on larger apartments increased slightly faster than on smaller apartments, with two-bedroom apartments averaging $3,846 a month, as many would-be buyers found themselves priced out of two-bedroom condominiums, which sold at an average price of nearly $1.4 million over the summer.
 Nancy Packes, president of Halstead Leasing, attributed the rebound in rents to rising demand for apartments as the economy picked up, coupled with a decrease in the supply of highly sought after new rental buildings, as developers focused on ever more lucrative condominiums instead.
 In 2004, Ms. Packes said, Manhattan has gained about 60,000 jobs. At the same time, developers are on track to complete about 2,900 market-rate apartments in Manhattan below 96th Street this year, 40 percent fewer than in 2003.
 David J. Wine, the president of Related Residential Development, said that with the price of land in Manhattan so high, the trend toward building condos rather than rental buildings is likely to continue, putting upward pressure on rents.
 And with the number of concessions -- such as free rents and subsidized broker fees -- falling, the bump-up in rents actually paid by tenants may be larger than the survey suggests. ''During the height of the summer months, many of the free-rent concessions and owner-paid commissions went away,'' Ms. Packes said. 
 The Citi Habitats survey confirmed that beginning last winter, average rents began to rise in all apartment sizes and continued through the summer. Mr. Heiberger said that the heated sales market, larger bonuses paid to employees in the financial services industry, and a continuing decline in the crime rate contributed to the price increases. 
 ''The rental market in Manhattan has shown incredible resilience and significant growth,'' he said. 
 According to the Halstead report, average monthly rents on two-bedroom apartments were up to $3,846, from $3,547 in the corresponding period last year, for an increase of 8 percent. One-bedrooms were up from $2,289 to $2,471, or 7.9 percent. Studio apartments were up the least, from $1,749 to $1,804, or 3 percent, and had actually declined slightly during the spring and summer. JOSH BARBANEL


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Rents Going Up''Rents in Manhattan are again rising after a sharp drop two years ago.Graph tracks the prices for studio, one and two bedroom apartments in Manhattan since 1995.Figures for 2003 and 2004 represent the spring/summer cycle from April 1 through Sept. 30.(Source by Halstead Leasing Consultants)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CRIME RATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BONUS PAY (50%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Research

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Halstead Property Co; Citi Habitats

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



720 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: More Than Bush-Kerry on the Ballot

BYLINE: By FRAN SILVERMAN

 BODY:
WHEN residents go to polls on Tuesday they will not only be deciding which presidential candidate is best, but they may also be deciding whether their town should build a new wastewater treatment plant, buy a new fire engine or spend millions to renovate schools.
 Taking advantage of the expected high turnout at the polls, towns have put more than 50 referendum items on Tuesday's ballot. They range from minor charter revision questions to million-dollar bonding issues. From Stamford and Plainfield, where voters will decide whether to increase the term of the town clerk, to Waterbury, where they have to weigh in on a $101 million school construction project, to Portland where residents are deciding whether to establish a new ethics commission, this election is as local as it is national.
 ''The questions directly involve how local government is going to spend money on big projects and how, through the charter, the dynamics of government may change in a year,'' said Kevin Maloney, a spokesman for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities. ''They have a direct impact on how life in a community will be.'' 
 But some town officials fear that while the presidential election will bring more voters to the polls, the referendum questions will get lost in the hoopla of the national campaign.
 Minor issues such as extending the term of a registrar of voters or spending $375,000 to replace a fire truck may seem irrelevant, arcane or even silly to voters who are grappling this year with such issues as Iraq, stem-cell research and abortion.
 ''Some of these issues will have a low level of saliency,'' said Darryl McMiller, assistant professor of politics at the University of Hartford. ''They are below the radar for many.''
 Still, Mr. McMiller and others political analysts said referendums were part of New England's fiercely historic commitment to participatory democracy. In a state like Connecticut where many communities still hold town meetings, ballot questions allow every resident to have a direct say.
 ''Connecticut has more of this than other places because we have 169 fiefdoms that have a wide variety of forms of government, such as first selectman, council, strong mayor, weak mayor, town managers,'' said Christopher Barnes, director of development for the Department of Public Policy at the University of Connecticut. ''Sometimes you use referendum to get around the mess of town government. A lot of referendum happen because we don't have faith in representative democracy where you take the minutia out of the hands of the mass public.'' 
 Political experts said people often express the desire for more control over political decisions.
 ''If you look at the history of referendum, it's about allowing people to play a role in government, particularly around issues involving money,'' Mr. McMiller said. 
 Towns sometimes grapple with whether to place a referendum issue on a November election ballot, or on a separate ballot at a different time of year, officials said. During separate elections, towns may not get enough voters to cast ballots, although those who do may be more interested and informed about the issue. Town officials said separate referendum elections often attract only the residents who want to defeat a proposal. The November ballot, however, is less costly for local governments and guarantees a good representation of voters, they said.
 Residents will be doing themselves a disservice if they neglect to vote on a referendum issue, they said.
 ''In many ways local questions may impact your daily life more so than the national election because it oftentimes relates to the quality of your schools, the quality of your roads, and the level of your property taxes,'' said Larry Perosino, spokesman for the secretary of state's office, which oversees referendums. ''Unfortunately, though, we do see that some voters miss the questions simply because they are going in with the thought of voting for the presidential candidate.''
 In Plainfield, Helen Coombs, the town clerk, admitted that she's been so busy registering voters, she hasn't had time to think much about the referendum question that could benefit her.
 Plainfield has seven referendum questions on Tuesday's ballot, including one that will increase the term of the town clerk and tax collector to four years from two.
 ''I guess I'll vote for it. It is a pain to constantly run for re-election,'' said Ms. Coombs, a Democrat, who has been town clerk since 1993.
 In Cheshire, Joe Michelangelo, the public works director, said he hoped residents would pay attention to the referendum on the $1.4 million appropriation for a pump station.
 ''It affects 20 percent of sewage users in Cheshire,'' he said. ''They have to be able to flush their toilets, too.''
 Clinton has the most questions, 12, on the ballot. They range from whether the town clerk and tax collector should be hired rather than elected, to whether the duties of the public works commission be revised.
 First Selectman James McCusker Jr., a 10-year incumbent, said many of the questions have been discussed for years. Officials, he said, were eager to get them on the ballot in this presidential election so the town's 8,000 registered voters could finally settle them.
 Coventry voters have only one question on the ballot Tuesday: They must decide whether to approve a $1.7 million appropriation for a new police station. The station is on the first floor of town hall. Police Chief Beau Thurnauer said the jail cell at the station dates to the 1800's. The cell, located right in the middle of the station, has no ventilation system or floor drains.
 ''The people who occupy cells don't often come with cologne,'' Chief Thurnauer said. ''It's pretty nasty.''
 The station's location in town hall also prevents victims and those charged with crimes from having any privacy as visitors to town hall pass them on the way to other offices, he said. Male and female police officers, who have to share one coed locker room, also have no privacy. If approved, the average taxpayer in town will pay about $24 a year for the project, Chief Thurnauer said.
 In Oxford, residents will decide whether to establish a foreign trade zone. The zone allows manufacturers to import raw materials without paying tariffs, assemble products with the materials and then export them for sale. If the products are sold in the United States they are subject to reduced tariffs. First Selectman Augie Palmer said the town, which has a small general aviation airport, will benefit by adding new businesses to its tax rolls. 
 ''The Town of Oxford enjoys a very low mill rate, but that doesn't mean we should sit back if we want to keep it low,'' Mr. Palmer said.
 He said eight companies are already interested in opening a location in the zone, which would be on 2,500 acres near the airport. 
 Mr. Palmer considered the issue just as important as the presidential ballot.
 ''This is a weighty issue,'' he said. ''It's our economy.''
 With interest rates low, a number of municipalities are asking voters to approve road and school renovation projects. Vernon has a $19 million sidewalk, road and bridge project on the ballot and Enfield a $24 million one. Manchester has a $35.2 million appropriation question for renovations and additions to its high school. South Windsor is asking voters to approve $92 million to renovate all its elementary schools. Glastonbury is asking residents to approve $29.5 million for the design and construction of a new elementary school.
 In Waterbury, members of the Independent Party gathered signatures to force a referendum on a $101 million school renovation project to deal with overcrowding. And that item is just one of eight. The rest deal with charter issues, including whether the mayor should serve a four-year term and be allowed to appoint five members of an 11-member board of education.
 In a city where the past three mayors have been embroiled in scandal and corruption investigations, city officials said they were not worried that those questions will get ignored.
 ''We have a very embarrassing past history here,'' Mayor Michael J. Jarjura said. ''The charter needed a major overhaul.'' 
 He said voters might feel funny taking a long time in the voting booth to go through all the referendum questions, especially if in a presidential year there are long lines behind them. 
 ''I think people feel when they are behind the curtain, they want to open it right away,'' Mr. Jarjura said. ''I say, 'Take your time. Why rush?'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Voters in Plainfield will decide on the term for the town clerk, Helen Coombs, above. In Coventry, a new police station is on the ballot. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BALLOTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (88%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); BIOETHICS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ETHICS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (51%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



721 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Aided by Uruguay's Problems, Left Is Expected to Gain Power

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Aided by a severe economic and social crisis, a coalition of left-wing groups that includes former guerrillas is poised to win at the ballot box here Sunday what it could not achieve through armed struggle a generation ago: political power in a country that was once one of the most prosperous in Latin America.
 The former guerrillas, the Tupamaros, are the largest single component of the group known as the Progressive-Encounter-Broad-Front-New-Majority, whose candidate for president is Tabare Vazquez, a charismatic 64-year-old doctor who is making his third run for the office. Although opponents have tried to make an issue of the Tupamaros' violent past, those efforts have largely been disregarded. 
 ''We have changed a lot because the world has changed, but what remains the same is our commitment to changes that benefit the excluded majority,'' Senator Jose Mujica, leader of the Tupamaro faction, said in an interview here. ''Our path and our methods depend on the historical context.'' 
 Dr. Vazquez needs 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff on Nov. 28, and polls show him either just above or just below that figure. He finished first in the initial round of the 1999 balloting, with 40 percent of the vote, but lost decisively in the runoff, which is widely assumed to have been put in place specifically to make it more difficult for his coalition to win.
 An oncologist and former mayor of this capital city, Dr. Vazquez has promised to follow moderate policies if elected, saying that while his ''eyes are on utopia, my feet are on the ground.'' He has also said he plans to continue practicing medicine one day a week and will delegate much authority to his staff, ''since we medical people are used to working in teams.''
 A Socialist, Dr. Vazquez himself never joined the Tupamaros, although a brother, now the head of his security detail, was a member of an even more militant group and was in jail during the military dictatorship that was in power from 1973 to 1985. Founded in 1963, the Tupamaros were originally urban guerrillas who assassinated police officers and kidnapped government officials and diplomats, including a British ambassador and Dan Mitrione, an American adviser to Uruguayan security forces whose death in 1970 while in the Tupamaros' hands inspired the Costa-Gavras film ''State of Siege.''
 The election here is being closely watched throughout Latin America and in Washington. If Dr. Vazquez wins, he would join Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, Nestor Kirchner of Argentina and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela in a bloc of heads of state who, to varying degrees, have expressed opposition to or skepticism about American-led pressures to follow free-market policies. 
 Despite its small size, Uruguay has the potential to be part of ''the most important revolution in recent Latin American history,'' Dr. Vazquez told an ecstatic throng of several hundred thousand people here on Wednesday night at a rally closing his campaign. Brazilian and Argentine officials have openly endorsed his candidacy, provoking irritation in the government here and complaints of interference in Uruguay's internal affairs.
 In an effort to increase Uruguay's bargaining power regionally, the current president, Jorge Batlle, has closely aligned the country with the United States. Dr. Vazquez's campaign platform, on the other hand, calls for ''independence with respect to political and military alliances under the hegemony of great powers,'' and at a news conference here on Friday, he vowed to ''recover'' the tradition of neutrality ''that in recent years has been lost.''
 A victory by his coalition would also produce a fundamental shift in the country's domestic politics by bringing the left to power for the first time. Two centrist parties founded in the middle of the 19th century, known as the Colorados and the Blancos -- the Reds and the Whites -- have alternated in power, except when coups left the military in control of this nation of 3.5 million people. 
 ''This election is reiterating a change produced in the last two elections, which is that the two traditional parties are confronted with an important new force,'' Julio Maria Sanguinetti, a Colorado leader who served two terms as president of Uruguay, from 1985 to 1990 and from 1995 to 2000. ''We're no longer in a two-party scenario in which it is Blanco versus Colorado and Colorado versus Blanco.''
 The current Colorado government is so unpopular that its candidate, Guillermo Stirling, is expected to win only 10 percent of the vote. But the Blanco candidate, Jorge Larranaga, a 48-year-old lawyer, has been moving to the left and taking populist positions in the hope of forcing a runoff. He had the support of about 30 percent of those asked in recent polls.
 Uruguay was once known as ''the Switzerland of South America'' because of its highly educated, predominantly middle-class population and its strong network of social benefits, paid for mostly by exports of meat and wool. But its economic standing has severely eroded over the past generation, culminating recently in the worst financial crisis in its history.
 After the banking system and currency in neighboring Argentina collapsed nearly three years ago, Uruguay, whose economy was largely driven by that of its much larger neighbor, also went into a tailspin, with the economy contracting by more than 10 percent in 2002. Although Mr. Batlle has been praised by financial experts and foreign diplomats for handling the emergency deftly, the populace blamed him and the Colorado Party for the decline in living standards, in which many people also lost their savings.
 ''We need a change, a complete change,'' said Anabel Puppo, 47, a government employee who said she had always voted for the traditional parties but would cast her ballot for Dr. Vazquez. ''We need jobs, so that my children don't have to leave the country in order to work, and we need someone who won't let thieving bankers walk away with our money.''
 The economy has more recently recovered and may expand by as much as 11 percent this year. But Dr. Vazquez has scored points with voters, promising that his priority will be to ''address the social emergency afflicting Uruguay'' and to seek ''a more equitable distribution'' of the nation's wealth.
 To some, that smacks of pandering and is out of line with the harsh economic realities the country continues to face. ''The left is proposing to build a new future by restoring or reconstructing a past that was much better,'' in economic terms, said Luis Eduardo Gonzalez, director of the Cifra public opinion polling firm and a leading political analyst.
 Dr. Vazquez's coalition is a fractious one, ranging from unreconstructed Communists to European-style social democrats like Senator Danilo Astori, whom Dr. Vazquez has mentioned as his future economic minister in order to reassure the financial markets. To hold the alliance together, some analysts say, Dr. Vazquez has fudged many of his own positions, which will become clear only after he takes office next March and is forced to make hard policy choices.
 Even after two decades of public life, ''Tabare Vazquez is a mystery,'' said Pablo da Silveira, a university professor and prominent political commentator. ''No one knows what he really thinks because he has said everything and its opposite.''
 But at his news conference on Friday, Dr. Vazquez dismissed those objections and said his program was clear. ''We are going to govern for change and govern for the people,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tabare Vazquez, a 64-year-old doctor and a Socialist, needs 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff in Uruguay's presidential election today. (Photo by Eduardo Di Baia/Associated Press)
 Jorge Larranaga, the candidate of the centrist White Party, has been moving to the left in the hope of forcing a runoff in the presidential race. (Photo by Andres Stapff/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HISTORY (74%); TRENDS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%) Elections; Election Issues; Banks and Banking; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Tupamaros (Uruguayan Group)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (56%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (55%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (55%) Larry Rohter; Tabare Vazquez; Jorge (Pres) Batlle

GEOGRAPHIC: URUGUAY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Uruguay; Argentina; Uruguay

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



722 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Not as Much Ventured, But More to Gain?

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, CALIF. 

 BODY:
WHEN members of the Early Stage Venture Capital Alliance gathered here last month for its annual golf outing, the conversation turned -- as it invariably does when venture capitalists congregate these days -- to the resurgence of fierce competition among firms seeking to invest in promising start-ups. 
 Silicon Valley is again silly with venture capitalists jostling one another to own a piece of any young technology company with a plausible business model. And with this heightened competition comes fear that the exorbitant inflation that hit the venture industry in the late 1990's will return as investors again start throwing millions after the cockamamie and the absurd. 
 So the good news in the venture world last week was the seemingly bad news that venture investing was down in the third quarter -- way down. After five consecutive quarters of robust growth, the research concern VentureOne found, the amount venture capitalists invested fell 15 percent, to $4.6 billion, from $5.4 billion in the second quarter. 
 Other data last week were even more dismal -- or more encouraging, depending on one's perspective. By the calculations of PricewaterhouseCoopers, Thomson Venture Economics and the National Venture Capital Association, the three firms that publish the quarterly MoneyTree Survey, venture investing in the third quarter fell by 26 percent, in dollar terms, from the second quarter. The 601 deals that venture capitalists consummated from July through September were the fewest in any quarter since 1996.
 It is unclear whether this is a sign of real restraint or just a pause in a resumption of the kind of reckless rush that led to the tech bubble and bust, some investors said. But, they added, it is at least a move in the right direction. ''As a venture investor, this is great news,'' said Mitchell Kertzman, a venture capitalist at Hummer Winblad Venture Partners in San Francisco. ''I'd like to see these numbers go down by more. Too much money being invested leads to an undisciplined environment. It leads to bidding wars.'' 
 Mr. Kertzman's view was seconded by more than a half-dozen other venture capitalists, and by Mark G. Heesen, the president of the National Venture Capital Association. ''To be frank, a 25 percent increase in venture investing would be more alarming'' than a steep decline, he said in a statement.
 At the height of the Internet boom, venture firms collectively invested $23 billion to $29 billion a quarter. That figure plummeted to less than $5 billion a quarter by mid-2002 and held steady in the $4 billion range through the third quarter of 2003. But venture investing jumped 36 percent from the fourth quarter of last year to the second quarter this year, to $5.9 billion, the MoneyTree survey showed. That prompted venture capitalists to fret over a return to the crazy days of 1999 and 2000, when hype was high but the return on investment was depressingly low, if not negative. 
 ''In my opinion, the entrepreneurial activity we've seen doesn't justify the increase in the rate of investing we've been seeing,'' said Paul Koontz, a partner at Foundation Capital a venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif. ''There just aren't that many great ideas tied to great teams to explain that kind of increase in investment.'' 
 Part of the problem is that while the number of money-making ideas worthy of a venture investment may be limited, there is a chronic overabundance of venture capitalists, left from the boom years when the number of venture firms more than doubled. 
 ''There's just too much money in the market chasing too few deals,'' said John C. Occhipinti, managing partner at the Woodside Fund in Redwood Shores, Calif. A year ago, a start-up considered itself fortunate if one venture firm was willing to cut a check for an ownership stake. Today, Mr. Occhipinti said, ''it's not uncommon to have six or seven or more firms competing on a single deal.''
 Examples abound. Jack Danahy, chief executive of Ounce Labs, a software security start-up in Waltham, Mass., closed on a first round of financing in February. Since then, Mr. Danahy figures that he has heard from 20 venture capitalists interested in investing in future rounds. 
 Steve Baloff, a partner at Advanced Technology Ventures in Palo Alto, Calif., said: ''With areas like security -- areas that are hot -- you have to scratch your head when you see the level of activity there. Why does the world need another 100 security companies when we've already got 800, or something like that?'' He described as ''very good news'' this past quarter's steep decline in investing. 
 Venture capitalists, of course, do not care if their rivals lose money, but they do worry that the tendency to invest in 10 start-ups in a market that can handle no more than one or two companies harms everybody. 
 ''Too many companies in one space diffuses the message and increases the cost of business,'' said Ted Schlein, a venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers in Menlo Park, Calif. ''It used to be you had to spend as much money as your dumbest competitor. We certainly don't want to go back to those days.'' 
 The numbers released last week help quell concerns about a return to those bad old days. But the third quarter is often, though not always, an off quarter for venture investing, because of summer vacations and other distractions.
 ''I'd caution against drawing any conclusions on a single quarter,'' Mr. Kertzman said. According to VentureOne, venture capitalists have invested $15.4 billion in 1,536 deals this year, versus $13.6 billion in 1,492 companies through the first nine months last year.
 ''We're going to see these numbers keep going up and down as everybody tries to figure out if it's safe to get out from beneath their beds and tinfoil hats and invest again,'' said Paul S. Kedrosky, a academic director of the Von Liebig Center for Entrepreneurism and Technology Advancement at the University of California at San Diego. So far, venture capitalists are acting with appropriate caution, added Mr. Kedrosky, who teaches venture capital courses in both the business and engineering schools. ''A bunch of undisciplined people are so far acting with amazing discipline,'' he said.
 THAT caution is evident in data that show that a larger portion of venture money went into first-round deals last quarter than at any time over the last two years. ''To me this says we're seeing a return to fundamental, early-stage, new company starts,'' said Jonathan Feiber, the managing partner at Mohr, Davidow Ventures in Menlo Park, Calif. ''At the same time, we're seeing a fall-off of later-stage funding rounds supporting the myriad of companies created during the bubble.''
 Still, some people worry that evidence of bubble behavior remains. Mr. Koontz of Foundation Capital says that for each company his partnership has financed, another 49 that he and his partners rejected have received financing from rival firms. 
 ''Every day sees more companies that don't deserve it getting funding,'' he said. ''In many ways the discipline that was lost during the crazy bubble days hasn't returned to the venture industry to the degree people think it has.''


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''Investment Wrinkle''Venture investing in the third quarter fell 26 percent from the second quarter. The number of deals done was the smallest since the third quarter of 1996.Graph tracks Venture capital invested and Venture capital deals since 1996.(Source by PricewaterhouseCoopers/Thomson Venture Economics/National Venture Capital Association MoneyTree Survey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (96%); FINANCING ROUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); BONDS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Venture Capital; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: HUMMER WINBLAD VENTURE PARTNERS (84%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (72%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



723 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Want to Profit From Vodka? Follow That Grey Goose

BYLINE: By JIM RENDON

 BODY:
INSIDE one of Manhattan's monuments to vodka consumption, the Pravda bar in SoHo, Mike Lee orders a vodka on the rocks, letting the bartender choose among the esoteric collection of bottles lined up behind the bar. 
 Mr. Lee, 30, a stockbroker, usually drinks expensive vodkas like Belvedere, Chopin or the new Absolut brand, Level. But at Pravda, he can't order those mainstream brands. 
 ''The bartender just rolls his eyes when I ask for one of those,'' he said.
 Those vodkas, and even Pravda's more obscure imports -- like Jewel of Russia and Zubrowka Bison Brand, from Poland -- are gaining popularity as the vodka market grows. Vodka accounted for 26.6 percent of all spirits sold in the United States in 2003, up from 24.2 percent in 1998, according to the Adams Beverage Group. And sales of superpremium brands, those costing $30 a bottle or more, were up 21 percent in 2003 over the previous year, according to the Distilled Spirits Council.
 Distillers would not release specific figures, but high-end vodkas are clearly profitable. ''There is more margin involved for everyone'' for high-priced vodka, said Monsell Darville, vice president and group marketing director at Bacardi, which owns Grey Goose, a French vodka. 
 These vodkas are drawing converts. Mr. Lee used to drink whiskey, but he said that he gradually preferred vodka's cleaner taste and that, after drinking vodka, he usually felt better the next day.
 ''The following day I used to reek of whiskey,'' he said. 
 This high-end market barely existed 15 years ago, when Absolut was alone at the top. Now Absolut, at $20 a bottle, is in the middle of the market. Grey Goose, vodka originally owned by Sidney Frank Importing that sells for $30 a bottle, is now the top-selling high-end vodka. In August, Bacardi bought the brand for a reported $2 billion. 
 Jerald O'Kennard, director of the Beverage Testing Institute, said that new brands were being introduced all the time, and that they were desperate to differentiate themselves. Wyborowa Single Estate is sold in a bottle designed by the architect Frank Gehry. Magazine ads for Level, Absolut's stab at the high end, promote two distillation methods, with no mention of what they are or why they matter. Ciroc, a French vodka, is made from grapes, not potatoes, rye or wheat, as other vodkas are.
 In general, marketing for expensive liquor seems to be paying off. While the entire spirits market grew 3.9 percent from 2002 to 2003, according to the Distilled Spirits Council, superpremium brands grew 11.1 percent.
 When people ''have a cocktail, they want it to be a special occasion,'' said David Ozgo, chief economist at the Distilled Spirits Council. ''There is a certain romance,'' he added, ''to sitting down with a martini glass to have a drink with friends.''
 The lure of the martini glass is what drew Maximilla Lukacs, 27, a filmmaker and musician, and her friend Danielle Devincenzo, 26, a musician and clothes maker, to Pravda. Sitting at the bar, they sipped at yellow and green vodka drinks in frosted martini glasses.
 When they want to drink vodka, this is where they go. But it's not for the vodka itself. Ms. Devincenzo is not normally a vodka drinker. ''I drink Patron,'' she said, referring to a brand of tequila. ''But these drinks are so great. This place makes me want to drink vodka.''
 Marketers strive to present vodka as a versatile liquor that mixes well with just about anything. 
 But that also presents a challenge to distillers. Vodka is often thought of as an essentially flavorless alcohol; in fact, the Code of Federal Regulations defines it as being ''without distinctive character, aroma, taste or color.''
 DISTILLERS have fought this reputation by promoting everything from the ingredients -- select wheat, locally grown rye -- to the distilling process and the kind of water used. Wyborowa Single Estate, for example, is produced with ingredients all derived from the same Polish farm: the rye is grown at the estate, the water pulled from a well there. Mr. Darville strives to link Grey Goose with the culinary history of France, and with what he said was the uncompromising French attitude toward food and drink.
 While the impact of much of this on the vodka itself is debatable, there are basic differences among the brands. The one best known to those who worked their way up to the top shelf the hard way is the afterburn that some vodkas leave when they go down. The burn is usually associated with inexpensive vodkas, which typically use corn as a base for the alcohol, said Robert Plotkin, an author and founder of BarMedia, a beverage consulting firm.
 A vodka's base ingredients are its most defining feature, Mr. O'Kennard said. Potato vodkas tend to be creamy. Wheat vodkas are often sweet. Rye creates a spicy flavor. 
 Yet few people drink vodka straight up, the best way to differentiate among brands. Even at Pravda, where bartenders take pride in the vodkas they pour, the bar menu is a long list of martini-glass concoctions.
 After it is splashed over ice and spun in shakers with three or four ingredients, the vodka itself becomes less important, Mr. O'Kennard said.
 ''If you use these vodkas in a Bloody Mary or a vodka tonic, the subtleties will not show up,'' he said.
 But more and more people feel that it is worth it to spend a few extra dollars on their Bloody Marys anyway.

QUICK READ
Here are some tips for savoring good vodka:

DRINK -- vodka at room temperature not chilled, as most people do said Robert Plotkin, an author and founder of BarMedia, a beverage consulting firm. Chilling a vodka, or drinking it over ice, greatly reduces its flavor.

LET -- vodka breathe for at least five minutes after pouring, Mr. Plotkin said. Smell the vodka. Though it is a subtle drink, he said, it does have a bouquet.

SWIRL -- it over your palette, with your mouth slightly open. After you swallow, be aware of the finish, or aftertaste.

LOOK -- for vodkas that infuse flavors during the distillation process rather than afterward, said Jerald OKennard, director of the Beverage Testing Institute. Infused flavors can have a more natural taste.

DON'T ASSUME -- that vodka has to be very expensive to be good. Mr. O'Kennard's organization does regular taste tests and often finds $12 vodkas that stand up against their $30 competitors. Test results can be found at www.tastings.com.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Settecase pours one of the 80 types of vodka at Pravda, a bar in SoHo. The popularity of vodka, especially at the high end of the market, has climbed. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLED LIQUORS (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); DISTILLERIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (65%) Alcoholic Beverages; Vodka; Sales

ORGANIZATION: Pravda (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Jim Rendon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



724 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: When We Were Wooed

BYLINE: By JOHN FERLING. 
John Ferling is the author of ''Adams vs. Jefferson: The Tumultuous Election of 1800.''

 BODY:
With the presidential election hanging on the outcome of the vote in eight or so swing states, we're approaching America's quadrennial obsession with the Electoral College. New Yorkers often complain that the Electoral College disenfranchises them because nobody bothers to campaign hard in our reliably blue state. 
 Once, however, New York was a swing state. In the most bitterly contested election of American history -- no, it wasn't in 2000, but in 1800, when Thomas Jefferson ran against the incumbent, John Adams -- New York State, particularly New York City, was the battleground that decided the election. 
 Many of the hallmarks of this year's election were present in 1800. The mudslinging and negative campaigning, for example, included attacks on Adams's foreign policy and Jefferson's war record -- his comfortable lifestyle at Monticello during much of the Revolutionary War and his alleged failure as a wartime governor of Virginia. But there were also significant differences between then and now -- perhaps none more important than that in most states, including New York, presidential electors were chosen by the state legislators rather than by direct popular voting. What's more, each elector cast two votes -- for separate candidates. At the time, the Constitution stipulated that the candidate with the most votes, if those constituted a majority, was to be president. The runner-up became vice president. 
 From the outset in the 1800 election, it was widely presumed that New York's vote would be decisive. With 12 electors, New York had a level of clout that was surpassed only by that of Massachusetts (which was certain to give its votes to Adams) and of two Jeffersonian strongholds -- Virginia and Pennsylvania. Adams had carried New York in 1796 en route to winning the presidency by a scant three electoral votes. His re-election depended on winning the state once again.
 Adams's Federalist Party expected to retain its control of the New York State Legislature -- and, thus, its electoral votes -- in the state elections set for April 1800. Indeed, the Republicans, Jefferson's faction, were so despairing of winning a legislative majority that early in the year they proposed that New York change its method of selecting presidential electors. They sought to have the outcome of the popular vote in each district determine the elector for that district, a device through which the Republicans might pick up one or two of the state's electoral votes. But confident of winning control of the Legislature, the Federalists rejected the proposal. 
 This Federalist Party decision to spurn the popular election of electors was one of the great blunders in the history of presidential campaigns. With New York City providing the decisive vote, the Republicans pulled off a stunning upset that gave them a hairsbreadth majority in the State Legislature. 
 In the race for the State Legislature, two things above all else accounted for the Republican victory in New York City. Aaron Burr -- a New Yorker who had been a United States senator and a state assemblyman -- understood the political system better than most of his contemporaries. He sensed that the city's workers, who historically supported the Federalists, were disillusioned and ripe for a change of loyalty. 
 Burr built a well-oiled party apparatus, one of the first in America. He spoke at street rallies, provided food and lodging for party workers who labored around the clock, and selected a slate of celebrity candidates. On Election Day, he sent party activists into the wards to get voters to the polls -- dispatching German-speakers to neighborhoods inhabited by German immigrants, for instance. The Federalists, led by Alexander Hamilton, did not bother with any of these tactics. 
 Burr, who later joined Jefferson on the Republican slate,was correct about the workers' disenchantment. Many had come to see the Federalists as elitists who refused to shake hands with artisans and who looked down on self-made men. To them, the Federalist Party had become the bastion of conservatives who abhorred participatory politics, upheld social traditionalism and were committed to an economy that favored the wealthy -- a party, in short, committed to blocking the changes that middle- and lower-class Americans had hoped would be realized through the American Revolution.
 In April, the Republicans captured all 12 of New York City's seats in the State Legislature, scoring overwhelming victories in the working-class wards of what were then the upper reaches of Manhattan. Their triumph in the city gave them control of the State Legislature. 
 The first lady, Abigail Adams, wrote to her sons that the Republicans had won because they had ''laid their plans with more skill than their opponents.'' She added that ''N York would be the balance'' in the fall's presidential election. She was right. New York's 12 electors cast all their votes for Jefferson and Burr. Of the votes cast by the 138 electors nationwide, 73 went to Jefferson and 73 to Burr. Adams came in third, with 65. All but one of the remaining votes went to Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, also a Federalist . The outcome -- Jefferson as president, Burr as vice president -- was determined by the House of Representatives. 
 For the first time, a sitting president was turned out of office. For the first time, too, a presidential election turned on artful modern politicking -- in a swing state. As Burr explained to his vanquished opponents: ''We have beat you by superior management.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 1800

PERSON: Thomas (1743-1826) Jefferson; John (1735-1826) Adams; John Ferling

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



725 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: No Pay as You Go

 BODY:
The bottom line on mass transit anywhere is that the masses cannot really pay for it. Government subsidies are necessary to keep buses, trains and subways running -- and it's more than worth it, considering the congestion, air pollution and disruptions to the economy that would come if cars became the only method of getting around.
 All that is especially true in the metropolitan New York area. Riders foot more of the costs here than almost anywhere else in the nation. But if the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is required to pay too much of its own way, commuting by rail or express bus will become too expensive for many riders. Drivers will suffer as well, as the competition for parking and highway space increases and the authority raises its bridge tolls through the roof. 
 Washington, Albany, City Hall and the suburbs will have to pay a fairer share of the costs of getting eight million people to work and back. The authority has been sounding warnings about a $436 million deficit next year, and alerting commuters to service cutbacks and fare increases. That deficit could eventually grow to $1 billion or, according to State Comptroller Alan Hevesi, maybe $2 billion.
 The reason for this deep hole is not hard to figure out. Over the last 25 years, the authority has borrowed lots of money to make the subways and trains cleaner and more efficient -- including, most disturbingly, a monster 2000 bond issue to help finance a $17 billion capital maintenance and expansion program. That New Yorkers now enjoy better mass transit is good for everybody. But the authority borrowed more than it could pay back on its own, and the bill is coming due.
 Officials at the authority are already planning to make sure suburban commuters and city straphangers pay their share -- or more -- of the additional costs. Commuter rail ticket prices could go up by about 5 percent, and so could the prices for E-ZPasses, the tolls on bridges and the costs of daily and monthly MetroCards. At the same time, the authority's leadership is talking about cutting or not replacing thousands of workers, mostly on subway and bus lines, including over 350 employees working on the Long Island Rail Road and almost 200 working for Metro-North. 
 So far, however, there have been few helpful offers from President Bush, Gov. George Pataki, Mayor Michael Bloomberg or the State Legislature. That's unacceptable, given the of mass transit to the state and regional economy. 
 For starters, the city must increase its contribution to the authority. Mayor David Dinkins, facing financial problems, began cutting the city's contribution, and Rudolph Giuliani and Mr. Bloomberg followed suit. Today's city contribution is one-third of what it was 20 years ago. The suburbs should chip in more for maintenance and other improvements, as should the federal government, not least because of the additional burden the system must bear as a prime terrorist target. Washington requires the authority to have bomb-sniffing dogs , shoulder bigger liability insurance premiums and take other measures. The estimated cost is $500 million, and Washington should pay it.
 Then there's the state. Republicans tend to resist offering more money; Democrats tend to resist making the system more efficient. The parties should switch roles. The Legislature, including suburban lawmakers who oppose consolidating rail lines, must help the authority restructure itself and streamline commuter bus lines. 
 Then there's Mr. Pataki. The governor's appointees, who essentially control the authority, have been willing to let the state off the hook. Mr. Pataki likes to be there when there is good news, like a long stretch without fare increases. Now he is arguing that a fare increase should not be necessary -- without, however, taking steps to solve the problems. That won't work. Unless the state provides more help with mass transit's growing debt, any fare increase will land on the governor's watch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (84%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); BOND ISSUES (64%); BONDS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AIR POLLUTION (57%) Transit Systems; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Buses; Bridges and Tunnels; Tolls; Railroads; Editorials; Transit Systems; Finances; Subways

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



726 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; WINTER IN THE SUN; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: The Bahamas: Hit or Miss

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
TO see how the Bahamas bowed to the vicissitudes of hurricane season, swing by the straw markets of its rival port cities. 
 As an armada of floating resorts pulled into Nassau in early October, the Straw Market on old Bay Street brimmed with tourists haggling over souvenir T-shirts and flimsy straw hats, even though Hurricane Frances had upended the market's rickety stalls only a few weeks earlier.
 The scene in Freeport, on Grand Bahama, could not have been more different. In fact, there was no scene at all. The Straw Market at the quirky International Bazaar was shuttered behind pastel-colored doors, its wooden booths devoid of any life. 
 ''It's a little lonely here,'' said Sandra Webb, 37, from Huntersville, N.C., one of the few tourists in Freeport that day. ''We went to a couple of shops yesterday, and they were surprised to see us.''
 Although the whipping winds of Hurricane Frances extended 300 miles in diameter, it sliced through the Bahamas in early September with the precision and ferocity of a tornado, sparing most of the archipelago's 700 islands but wreaking havoc in two places: Grand Bahama Island and the small island cluster called the Abacos.
 The eye of the hurricane never grazed Nassau, the touristy heart of the island of New Providence, and by the first weekend of October, its low season, the pulse had largely returned to normal. Some visitors were oblivious that a Category 4 storm had even passed. ''What hurricane?'' asked Chris Wimer, 25, a student from Dewey Beach, Del., as he polished off a frozen banana cocktail at Senor Frog's, a dockside bar. ''We haven't seen any damage. No uprooted trees, no missing roofs, no nothing.''
 West of the tourist districts, the 145-mile-an-hour winds did manage to topple cedar trees along Cable Beach and hammer truck-size sinkholes into West Bay Street, the arterial road to the airport. The SuperClubs Breezes, which suffered the most damage of any large resort on New Providence, resealed its roof and welcomed visitors back on Oct. 1. By the next afternoon, half of its 400 rooms were occupied, as were its 300 blue beach chairs set up along sugar-white sand and turquoise surf.
 Across the harbor on Paradise Island, the Las Vegas-style Atlantis resort was its usual frenzy of screaming kids, dewy-eyed honeymooners and tipsy gamblers. Next door, at the exclusive One&Only Ocean Club, not a blade of grass seemed out of place. The only whirlwind to hit was the social kind, with boldface guests mingling and marveling at the superficial damage. 
 ''It looks like the palm trees went to the army and got little crew cuts,'' said Thom Filicia, the interior designer from ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy,'' who had flown in for a wedding that everyone seemed to know about. (The bride was Susan Magrino, Martha Stewart's publicist and friend, and her bouquet was occupying much of Ms. Stewart's time in her final days of freedom.)
 Ordering lunch at the Dune, a restaurant at the Ocean Club that claims a menu conceptualized by Jean-Georges Vongerichten, Mr. Filicia had this assessment of the hurricane aftermath: ''I think they lucked out.''
 Few would say that about Grand Bahama, 45 minutes away from Nassau by plane, where the resort industry is newer -- and some say scrappier. Hurricane Frances lingered over Grand Bahama for two days, flattening homes, snapping thick trees and peeling off rooftops. Three weeks later, in late September, Hurricane Jeanne essentially finished what Frances had started there, flooding roads and pulling down utility poles that crews had just straightened. 
 Tourist officials played down the devastation, saying, among other things, that the new Grand Bahama International Airport in Freeport was ''fully operational.'' But an early October visit suggested an airport on life support. Telephone lines were down, computers were off-line (which meant that some tickets had to be handwritten), and flights were limited to daylight hours because the navigation system required for instrument landings had been washed away. Next door, the airport's old pink terminal had been submerged; it has been deemed not worth saving. 
 Not that tourists were battering down the terminal gates. A month after Hurricane Frances, the island was still digging out. No one was swimming with the dolphins at the Underwater Explorers Society, roads were littered with uprooted mahogany trees and abandoned cars, and one of the few resorts to reopen -- the Pelican Bay Suites at Port Lucaya -- looked more like a construction zone, with scaffolding and exposed roofs, than like one of the island's latest forays into the upscale market. 
 ''Everything stopped,'' said Shantel Robinson, 26, folding and refolding T-shirts at Booth 42 in the Lucaya Marketplace. ''I sold two items today. We need help.'' 
 Most resorts on Grand Bahama are closed at least until December. The Westin and Sheraton at Our Lucaya, a 1,260-room minicity on 372 acres, recalled an abandoned Hollywood set. Pools were drained, the landscaping looked singed, and hallways echoed with the humming of dehumidifiers. The Sheraton reopened on Oct. 14, but most of the waterlogged Westin section, where air ducts were yanked out like spaghetti by 150-m.p.h. winds, is not scheduled to accept guests until Dec. 17.
 Some tourist hotels are teetering on the brink. The Royal Oasis Golf Resort and Casino in Freeport, the island's aging grande dame, retracted its opening date. The hurricanes tore open a new skylight in the Crowne Plaza Tower and reduced the Holiday Inn to a disaster area. 
 Elsewhere on the island, most residents were without power, telephone service and, in some places, drinking water in early October, prompting the State Department to issue a travel alert, good until Nov. 19, discouraging Americans from visiting the Bahamas. The alert also reinforced the flawed perception that all of the Bahamas are damaged goods. According to a survey last month by the Orlando-based travel marketing firm of Yesawich, Pepperdine, Brown & Russell, nearly 25 percent of leisure travelers polled said they were ''less likely'' to visit the Bahamas later this year as a result of the hurricanes. 
 For the tourism sector, which accounts for 70 percent of the Bahamian economy, the visitor fallout may prove worse than the storm. The biggest concern, more than the straightforward task of rebuilding, is luring visitors back.
 But resort operators are upbeat. A few are even whispering that the loss of outmoded hotels may help Grand Bahama reposition itself as a more luxurious vacation spot. ''When this reopens, it will be more gorgeous than before,'' said Harris Chan, the general manager of Our Lucaya, which is using an insurance payout to help revamp several wings. ''It's survival of the fittest.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: British Colonial Hilton, in Nassau. Cleanup at Sheraton at Our Lucaya, on Grand Bahama. (Photographs by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TORNADOES (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (60%) Travel and Vacations; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Denny Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) BAHAMAS (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Bahama Islands; Abaco Islands

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



727 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ELSTEIN, BERNARD J.

 BODY:
 ELSTEIN--Bernard J. Always cheerful, he died peacefully on October 23rd at age 95. He taught economics and history at Abraham Lincoln High School for over 40 years and served as Teacher-in-Charge of New Utrecht Summer High School. 
Always deeply committed to reading, he served as President of the Brooklyn Library Council. Bernie loved Gilbert and Sullivan, Bertrand Russell, and Sherlock Holmes. Bernie was a rare person who remained close even to those friends who disagreed with his independent convictions. Alice, his beloved wife of 62 years, predeceased him. Sons Paul and Kenneth, grandsons Robert, David, and Daniel, and other family and friends will always miss him. Please send contributions in his name to to the Brooklyn Public Library Association, Grand Army Plaza, Brooklyn, New York 11238. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LIBRARIES (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (85%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



728 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: CONTROL OF CONGRESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Races for House and Senate Have Been Nasty, Expensive and Focused on Local Issues

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
With control of the Senate hanging on nine nip-and-tuck contests, anxious candidates and their allies worked feverishly to gain an edge in races notable for their nastiness, their expense and their intense focus on local issues and personalities.
 In the main Senate battlegrounds of the South and the West, as well as in contested House territory throughout the nation, volunteers engaged in a frenzy of last-minute door-knocking and telephoning as the airwaves carried the final salvos of what has been a bitter Congressional campaign season.
 Republicans and independent analysts continued to believe that Republicans would maintain their slim hold on the House, in part because redistricting in Texas has put five Democrats there in jeopardy, and probably keep control of the Senate. But a surge of early voting, the uncertain influence of the presidential race and a rise in registered voters in swing states had even the most savvy political veterans unwilling to hazard hard predictions.
 ''I'd rather be in our position than the Democrats','' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate's second-ranking Republican. ''But the truth of the matter is, who knows what's going to happen?'' 
 The harsh political season has been a reflection, in part, of the partisanship on Capitol Hill, where Democrats and Republicans have locked horns on issues like judicial nominations and energy legislation. The campaigns became intensely personal, with attacks on family members, insinuations that candidates were soft on terrorists and, at the last minute, a suggestion by Kentucky Republicans about the sexual orientation of the Democratic Senate candidate.
 In the end, the election is unlikely to change the political climate in Congress, because the House is almost certain to remain narrowly divided, and neither party is expected to end up controlling the 60 votes needed to break Senate filibusters.
 ''It's continued deadlock,'' said James A. Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University.
 But the election will produce some new faces in the Senate. In Illinois, Barack Obama, a rising Democratic star who gave the keynote address at the party's convention this summer, is virtually certain to win. The same is expected of Representative Johnny Isakson, the Republican Senate candidate in Georgia.
 The marquee Senate contest is in South Dakota, where the Democratic leader, Tom Daschle, is in danger of losing a seat he has held for 18 years after an effort by Republicans to portray him as a chief obstacle to President Bush's Congressional agenda. Mr. Daschle and his Republican challenger, former Representative John Thune, will have spent nearly $30 million -- roughly $40 per capita in the mainly rural state -- by the time the race is over.
 In the traditional Republican strongholds of Colorado, Oklahoma and Alaska, the party is struggling to hold on to seats. In Alaska, Republicans are worried that Senator Lisa Murkowski could lose to the Democrat, former Gov. Tony Knowles. Ms. Murkowski is facing accusations of nepotism because she was appointed by her father, Frank J. Murkowski, to fill his Senate seat when he was elected governor. 
 Democrats are defending five open seats across the South, in Georgia, the Carolinas, Florida and Louisiana. Louisiana's race is likely to be pushed into a December runoff. In Florida, a bruising matchup was tied between Mel Martinez, a former secretary of housing and urban development in the Bush administration, and Betty Castor, the former top education official in the state.
 The Republican candidate in North Carolina, Representative Richard M. Burr, has erased the lead of the Democrat, Erskine B. Bowles. In South Carolina, Democrats said they were concerned about the prospects of Inez Tenenbaum, the Democratic candidate, given the Republican leanings of the state in a presidential year.
 In the House, the election will test a Republican-orchestrated redistricting plan in Texas intended to cost Democrats five or more seats. Democrats need to gain a dozen seats overall to take back the House; they hope to limit their losses in Texas and snatch back the majority by winning open seats and defeating Republicans in swing districts.
 ''I think we have a shot, depending on turnout,'' said Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Republicans say it would take a drastic turn of events to force them out of the majority. 
 Spending on the races has been enormous. Senate candidates have spent more than $278 million campaigning over the past two years, according to the Federal Election Commission, and the House contenders have topped $433 million. Party committees and independent activist groups have poured in millions more. In South Dakota alone, outside groups have spent $9 million in support of Mr. Thune, whose campaign is so flush he is having trouble spending it all.
 ''You reach a saturation point,'' said Dick Wadhams, Mr. Thune's campaign manager.
 Unlike in the 2002 campaign season, when many of the top Senate races turned on national security in the first election after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the 2004 races have been mostly local affairs.
 In North Carolina, the Senate candidates are jockeying to take credit for a buyout of tobacco growers. In Illinois, Representative Philip M. Crane, a senior Republican whose seat is in jeopardy, has been on the defensive over his Congressionally financed travels. In one contested Arizona district, the candidates clashed over local land-use issues.
 ''This year I think it comes down to prairie dogs,'' said Professor Thurber, referring to a fight between the South Dakota Senate candidates over who had the best plan for eliminating the animals, which have plagued ranchers.
 But national issues like the war on Iraq and antiterrorism efforts surfaced in campaigns, as did the economy and Mr. Bush's tax cuts. In Washington, Representative George Nethercutt, the Republican candidate, resurrected videotape of Senator Patty Murray, the Democrat, talking about the appeal among Arabs of Osama bin Laden. Republicans, meanwhile, went after some House Democratic candidates for their support from antiwar groups. 
 This year, more than most, the candidates have relied on their biographies to sell themselves. In Florida, Mr. Martinez is stressing his roots as a Cuban immigrant who escaped Communism and rose to the highest ranks of the Bush administration. In Colorado, the Democrat, Ken Salazar, is a Hispanic rancher and lawyer whose family history in that state and New Mexico dates to the 1500's.
 ''Each of these races are turning on particular characteristics of the candidates and, in some cases, particular foibles of the candidates,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster. Norman Ornstein, an independent expert who follows Congress at the American Enterprise Institute, said those foibles have occurred largely on the Republican side this year.
 In the Oklahoma Senate race, former Representative Tom Coburn, who is a physician, called for the death penalty for doctors who perform abortions, and recently said that black men had ''a genetic predisposition to have less of a life expectancy.'' In Kentucky, Senator Jim Bunning, the Republican incumbent, lost a two-digit lead after a series of missteps, including an admission he had not read the newspaper in six weeks. In South Carolina, the Republican, Jim DeMint, suggested that openly gay people should not be allowed to teach in the public schools. 
 In the House races, the list of the three dozen most competitive seats dwindled as voters began making up their minds in the final days. Democrats said they remained optimistic about defeating some Republican incumbents, particularly in Connecticut, where Representatives Christopher Shays and Rob Simmons were in tough fights. 
 Republicans had their own targets, among them Representative Baron P. Hill in Indiana and Representatives Martin Frost and Charles W. Stenholm in Texas.
 Given the fluid situation, party officials who put together the campaign strategy were not ashamed to admit some nervousness.
 ''We feel good about it,'' said Senator Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. ''But we are on pins and needles in every one of our nine states.''


GRAPHIC: Photos/Chart: ''The Battle for Congress''All 435 seats in the House of Representatives are at stake in Tuesday's elections, as well as 34 of the 100 seats in the Senate. Republicans control both houses, and analysts and party insiders predict the Republicans will retain both, though Democrats believe they have an outside chance to regain power, particularly in the Senate.The SenateWith nine races too close to call, the parties are bracing for a cliffhanger night. Democrats are defending five open seats in the South, but will very likely pick up a seat in Illinois. Republicans are seeking to hold Okahoma, Colorado and Alaska. The big question is South Dakota.Graph tracks which party controlled the Senate in 1984 through 2002.Some Races to WatchALASKATony Knowles -- DEM. Former governorLisa Murkowski -- REP. IncumbentNepotism and the environment are the central themes. Senator Murkowski, appointed by her father, is vulnerable
the state's powerful senior senator, Ted Stevens, is trying to rescue her campaign. Mr. Knowles is distancing himself from Democratic opposition to oil drilling in the Arctic wildlife refuge.COLORADOKen Salazar -- DEM. State attorney generalPete Coors -- REP. Corporate executiveRepublicans are hoping President Bush's coattails will carry Mr. Coors, the beer magnate, to Washington. Mr. Salazar, a Hispanic rancher and two-time attorney general, has experience winning statewide elections, and strong appeal in the rural areas Mr. Coors needs to win.FLORIDAMel Martinez -- REP. Former U.S. housing secretaryBetty Castor -- DEM. Ex-state education officialMs. Castor, a politically moderate former state education commissioner, casts herself as someone who can work across party lines. Mr. Martinez, a Cuban migr with strong support from the Bush White House, is counting on a strong turnout among Hispanics.KENTUCKYJim Bunning -- REP. IncumbentDaniel Mongiardo -- DEM. Doctor, state legislatorAfter a series of gaffes, Mr. Bunning lost his double-digit lead over Dr. Mongiardo, a 44-year-old doctor and state legislator. Mr. Bunning plays up his ties to President Bush and his seat on the Senate Finance Committee. Dr. Mongiardo stresses health care.LOUISIANADemocrats vying for the seat include:David Vitter -- REP. U.S. representativeChris John -- a U.S. representativeJohn Kennedy -- state treasurerDemocrats have held the Senate here for more than a century, but Republicans have high hopes for Representative Vitter, a former Rhodes scholar with strong support from conservatives. He is likely to land in a December runoff with Mr. John or Mr. Kennedy.NORTH CAROLINARichard M. Burr -- REP. U.S. representativeErskine B. Bowles -- DEM. Ex-Clinton Chief of staffMr. Bowles, who lost two years ago to Senator Elizabeth Dole, talks of the need to create jobs. Mr. Burr has run a barrage of ads reminding voters in this conservative state that Mr. Bowles was chief of staff to President Bill Clinton.OKLAHOMABrad Carson -- DEM. U.S. representativeTom Coburn -- REP. Doctor, ex-U.S. representativeMr. Carson, who portrays himself as a conservative, must overcome the states strong Republican tilt. Dr. Coburn has been plagued by a series of shoot-from-the-hip remarks, as well as controversy over whether he sterilized a woman without her consent.SOUTH CAROLINAInez Tenenbaum -- DEM. Ex-state education officialJim DeMint -- REP. U.S. representativeMs. Tenenbaum has attacked Mr. DeMint over his support for a national sales tax. Mr. DeMint is relying on his conservative credentials in this heavily Republican state. But he stirred criticism with controversial remarks, including one about gay teachers.SOUTH DAKOTATom Daschle -- DEM. IncumbentJohn Thune -- REP. Ex-U.S. representativeThe race pits Washington clout against conservative values. Mr. Daschle, the Democratic leader, stresses the millions he has brought home in federal money. Mr. Thune, a Christian conservative, depicts Mr. Daschle as out of touch. A Republican win would be a harsh blow for Democrats.The HouseOnly about three dozen House races are truly competitive, as district lines are often drawn to protect incumbents. In Texas, Republicans engineered a redistricting map that they believe will give them a gain of five or seats, protecting their majority.Graph tracks which party controlled the House in 1984 through 2002.Some Races to WatchDISTRICT: Colorado 3rdDEMOCRAT: John Salazar -- State representativeREPUBLICAN: Greg Walcher -- Former state natural resources directorThe race for this open Republican seat is tight, with Mr. Salazar getting some benefit from his brother's U.S. Senate campaign.DISTRICT: Connecticut 2ndDEMOCRAT: Jim Sullivan -- Ex-city councilmanREPUBLICAN: Rob Simmons -- IncumbentDemocrats have run commercials tying Mr. Simmons to his support of Bush administration policies.DISTRICT: Georgia 12thDEMOCRAT: John Barrow -- County commissionerREPUBLICAN: Max Burns -- IncumbentMr. Burns is seeking a second term in a district initially drawn for a Democrat and must draw support from minority voters.DISTRICT: Illinois 8thDEMOCRAT: Melissa Bean -- BusinesswomanREPUBLICAN: Philip M. Crane -- IncumbentMr. Crane has come under fire for overseas trips and, critics say, losing touch with his district
 Republicans concede he is in trouble.DISTRICT: Indiana 9thDEMOCRAT: Baron P. Hill -- IncumbentREPUBLICAN: Mike Sodrel, -- trucking executiveMr. Hill is a top target of Republicans who have sought to help Mr. Sodrel in his rematch with money and visits by party celebrities.DISTRICT: Kentucky 3rdDEMOCRAT: Tony Miller -- County circuit court clerkREPUBLICAN: Anne M. Northup -- IncumbentMs. Northup has managed to fend off repeated challenges in this primarily Democratic district and has led in recent polls.DISTRICT: Kentucky 4thDEMOCRAT: Nick Clooney -- Former TV anchor and columnistREPUBLICAN: Geoff Davis -- BusinessmanRepublicans had high hopes for this open Democratic seat but Mr. Clooney, father of actor George, has run stronger than expected.DISTRICT: Minnesota 6thDEMOCRAT: Patty Wetterling -- Child safety advocateREPUBLICAN: Mark Kennedy -- IncumbentMr. Kennedy was headed for a second term until Ms. Wetterling entered with a credible candidacy because of her advocacy work.DISTRICT: New Mexico 1stDEMOCRAT: Richard M. Romero -- State senate president pro temREPUBLICAN: Heather A. Wilson -- IncumbentMs. Wilson is in a tight rematch in a race that could be influenced by the presidential campaign.DISTRICT: New York 27thDEMOCRAT: Brian Higgins -- State assemblymanREPUBLICAN: Nancy Naples -- County comptrollerRepublicans are trying to hold on to the seat being vacated by Jack Quinn. The district has a significant blue-collar presence.DISTRICT: North Carolina 11thDEMOCRAT: Patsy Keever -- County commissionerREPUBLICAN: Charles H. Taylor -- IncumbentA surprisingly close race has Mr. Taylor stressing his seniority and ability to win federal aid for the district.DISTRICT: Oregon 1stDEMOCRAT: David Wu -- IncumbentREPUBLICAN: Goli Ameri -- EntrepreneurMr. Wu has had to deal with a newspaper's disclosure of alleged sexual misconduct nearly 30 years ago.DISTRICT: Texas 1stDEMOCRAT: Max Sandlin -- IncumbentREPUBLICAN: Louie Gohmert -- Former judgeAfter years of running as a conservative Democrat, Mr. Sandlin faces a tough Republican in a mostly new district.DISTRICT: Texas 19thDEMOCRAT: Charles W. Stenholm -- 17th District representativeREPUBLICAN: Randy Neugebauer -- 19th District representativeMr. Stenholm, a longtime rural advocate and critic of federal deficits, faces an uphill fight in the district drawn to favor Republicans.DISTRICT: Texas 32ndDEMOCRAT: Martin Frost -- 24th District representativeREPUBLICAN: Pete Sessions -- 32nd District representativeOne of the most expensive and rugged fights in the country between two old foes with extensive campaign experience.DISTRICT: Washington 8thDEMOCRAT: Dave Ross -- Radio talk show hostREPUBLICAN: Dave Reichert -- County sheriffA close race for an open seat in the Seattle suburbs between a sheriff who caught a serial killer and a popular radio talk show host.(Source by Vital Statistics on Congress [Congressional party divisions])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); REDISTRICTING (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); TERRORISM (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); ENERGY REGULATION (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Political Advertising; Election Issues; Registration of Voters; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US); House of Representatives (US); Congress (US)

PERSON: DAVID G REICHERT (79%); JOHN BARROW (79%); DAVID WU (79%); JOHN THUNE (79%); DAVID VITTER (79%); JOHN T SALAZAR (79%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (79%); TOM DASCHLE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARON P HILL (74%); LISA MURKOWSKI (69%); HEATHER WILSON (69%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEOFF DAVIS (56%); TED STEVENS (55%); BRIAN HIGGINS (55%); MELISSA L BEAN (55%); RANDY NEUGEBAUER (55%); PETE SESSIONS (55%); LOUIE GOHMERT (55%) Carl Hulse; Sheryl Gay Stolberg

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (73%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



729 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: A Drop in Oil Prices Drives a Rally in Stocks

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
In the last week before the presidential election, oil prices declined and stocks surged, with all three major market gauges registering substantial gains.
 Crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange ended the week below $52 a barrel, down from more than $55 a barrel one week earlier. 
An unexpectedly large gain in oil stockpiles in the United States contributed to the decline in these prices, as did speculation that China's first interest rate increase in nine years would slow global demand. The drop in oil prices, along with optimism about the economy and corporate earnings, led to the stock market rally.
 Shares of Delta Air Lines rose more than 68 percent, by far the biggest weekly gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The airline avoided a bankruptcy court filing, for now, when it reached a tentative agreement with its pilots that could save it $1 billion.
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 gained 34.46 points, or 3.1 percent, to close at 1,130.20. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 269.66 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 10,027.47. And the Nasdaq composite index rose 59.85 points, or 3.1 percent, to 1,974.99. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.02 percent from 3.97 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Cardinal HealthNYSE: CAHShares of the drug distributor soared after the company released its long delayed fourth-quarter and full-year financial results. It said its fourth-quarter earnings rose 11 percent, beating Wall Street's estimates.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $46.75WEEK'S CHANGE: +21.46%EST. '04 P/E: 13.38Northrop GrummanNYSE: NOCThe military contractor's third-quarter earnings rose 51 percent because of strength from its mission systems, integrated systems and ships and space-technology segments, the company said. It said its sales were up 11 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $51.75WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.09%EST. '04 P/E: 17.08Delta Air LinesNYSE: DALThe nation's third-largest airline reached a tentative agreement with its pilots' union on wage and benefit cuts, averting a threatened bankruptcy court filing. The pilots agreed to a 32.5 percent pay cut beginning Dec. 1.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $5.45WEEK'S CHANGE: +68.21%EST. '04 P/E --AonNYSE: AOCThe insurance company, which is under investigation by Eliot Spitzer, New York's attorney general, withdrew its 2004 earnings guidance of $2.20 a share, citing weak revenue growth. It did not offer an alternate target.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.41WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.08%EST. '04 P/E: 9.16Washington PostNYSE: WPOThe company reported strong third-quarter earnings and said growth was especially strong in its education and television broadcasting units. It said it earned $8.57 a share, surpassing earlier estimates.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $915.00WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.05%EST. '04 P/E: 26.37AetnaNYSE: AETThe health insurance provider said its quarterly net income was $8.21 a share, up from $1.35 a share a year earlier. It said the gain reflected a tax refund and said its operating earnings were better than expected.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $95.00WEEK'S CHANGE: +14.10%EST. '04 P/E: 13.60StemCellsNNM: STEMThe company reported a wider third-quarter loss partly because of costs related to its first product filing with the Food and Drug Administration. Positive news on the promise of stem cell therapies helped the sector.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $3.71WEEK'S CHANGE: +37.41%EST. '04 P/E --J.C. PenneyNYSE: JCPThe department store chain announced that Myron E. Ullman would be its next chairman and chief executive, succeeding Allen I. Questrom on Dec. 1. Mr. Ullman has held top positions at big retailers like Macy's.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $34.59WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.45%EST. '04 P/E: 16.77(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (76%); AIRLINES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (74%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



730 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: The Apparent Heir

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Columnists for this newspaper are not allowed to endorse presidential candidates. But I think this election is so important, I am going to break the rules. I hope I don't get fired. But here goes: I am endorsing George Bush for president. No, no -- not George W. Bush. I am endorsing his father -- George Herbert Walker Bush. 
 The more I look back on the elder Bush -- Bush 41 -- the more I find things to admire and the more I see attributes we need in our next president. 
 Let's start with domestic policy. The elder George Bush was the real uniter, not divider, the real believer in a kinder, gentler political dialogue. Yes, he had a Democratic Congress to deal with, so he had to be more conciliatory, but it came naturally to him. In 1990, the elder Bush sided with Congressional Democrats to raise taxes, because he knew it was the right thing for the economy, despite his famous ''Read my lips'' pledge not to raise new taxes. While that 1990 tax increase contributed to his re-election defeat, it laid the foundation for the Clinton tax increases, which, together with Mr. Bush's, helped to hold down interest rates and spur our tremendous growth in the 1990's and the buildup of a huge surplus. 
 On foreign policy, the elder Bush maintained a healthy balance between realism and idealism, unilateralism and multilateralism, American strength and American diplomacy. He believed that international institutions like the U.N. could be force multipliers of U.S. power. Rather than rubbing Mikhail Gorbachev's nose in the dirt, the elder Bush treated him with respect, and in doing so helped to orchestrate the collapse of the Soviet Union, the liberation of Eastern Europe and the reunification of Germany without the firing of a single shot. The nonviolent unraveling of the Soviet Empire ushered in a decade of prosperity and an era of unprecedented American power and popularity. 
 The alliance that Mr. Bush, Brent Scowcroft and James A. Baker III built to drive Saddam out of Kuwait had so many allies it virtually turned a profit for America. Mr. Bush chose not to invade Baghdad in 1991. Right or wrong, he felt that had he tried, he would have lost the coalition he had built up to evict Saddam from Kuwait. He obviously believed that the U.S. should never invade an Arab capital without a coalition that contained countries whose support mattered in that part of the world, such as France, Egypt, Syria or Saudi Arabia. 
 The elder Bush rightly understood that it was not in Israel's interest, or that of the U.S., for Israel to be expanding settlements in the West Bank and Gaza. The Madrid peace conference convened by the elder Bush paved the way for both the Oslo peace process and the Jordanian-Israeli peace treaty, which ended Israel's diplomatic isolation with countries like India and China. It was also the elder Bush who laid the groundwork for the Nafta free-trade accord, completed by President Bill Clinton.
 In short, the elder Bush understood the importance of acting in the world -- but acting wisely, with competence and preparation. His great weakness was his public diplomacy. He wrongly antagonized American Jews by challenging their right to lobby on behalf of Israel. He could have given more voice to the amazing liberation of humanity that the collapse of the Soviet Union represented and to the American anger over the Tiananmen Square massacre. Although, in his muted response to Tiananmen, the elder Bush kept China-U.S. relations from going totally off the rails, which kept China on a track to economic reform. Although he raised taxes, he never really explained himself. So his instincts were good, his mechanics were often flawless, but his words and music left you frustrated. Still, the legacy is a substantial one. Over time, historians will treat the elder Bush with respect.
 So as we approach this critical election of 2004, my advice, dear readers, is this: Vote for the candidate who embodies the ethos of George H.W. Bush -- the old guy. Vote for the man who you think would have the same gut feel for nurturing allies and restoring bipartisanship to foreign policy as him. Vote for the man you think understands the importance of facing up to our fiscal responsibilities for the sake of our children. And vote for the man who has the best instincts for balancing realism and idealism and the man who understands the necessity of using energetic U.S. diplomacy to make Israel more secure -- by helping to bring it peace with its Arab neighbors, not just more tours from American Christian fundamentalists.
 Yes, next Tuesday, vote for the real political heir to George H.W. Bush. I'm sure you know who that is. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); WRITERS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE H W BUSH (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman; George (Former Pres) Bush; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



731 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: In American Health Care, Drug Shortages Are Chronic

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
ANGRY about not getting a flu shot? Imagine being unable to find supplies of a medicine that limits damage from a spinal cord injury, a medicine that improves the health of a premature baby, or a medicine that fights systemic bacterial infectious.
 Each of these drugs, and dozens of others, are in shortage in the United States right now. On any given day, 50 to 80 drugs, many of them life-saving, may be difficult or impossible to find. Some patients die waiting for them, or because a frustrated doctor substituted another drug without having adequate training. 
 The larger story behind the flu vaccine shortage is that drug supply disruptions in the United States have become routine.
 The immediate causes are myriad -- drug company mergers, production snags, low and high prices, even outbreaks of mad cow disease. But some economists say that they all stem from one central feature of the nation's public health system: no one is in charge. ''We're so concerned in this country about inappropriate public intervention that we're willing to pay very high costs -- including shortages -- to avoid that,'' said Marc Roberts, a professor of political economy at Harvard University. 
 In Europe, where governments play a much larger role in managing health care, shortages are much less common. For example, while America's supplies of flu vaccine have been short in three of the last four years, Europe's have not. ''Europe's peaceful market guarantees that supplies are available,'' said Uwe Reinhardt, professor of health economics at Princeton University.
 But there is so little political support for government intervention in the health care market in the United States that Senator John Kerry took pains in a recent presidential debate to say that his plan for expanding access to health insurance would not create a new government program. And some economists say that the disadvantages of the European model of heavy intervention outweigh the advantages. 
 Paul Ginsburg, president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, argued that drug shortages happen in the United States not because the government fails to intervene but because the health care market has a conscience that overrides market logic. 
 ''If you could just double or triple the price whenever the supply chain was disrupted, it might be worth it to have excess capacity,'' Mr. Ginsburg said. But such price increases would be decried as unseemly profiteering. ''It is the inability of the price system to react to these disruptions that is what leads to the potential for shortages,'' he said.
 American hospital pharmacists say that chronic shortages have obliged them to become crisis managers. Every day, Scott Mark, director of pharmacy for the Children's National Medical Center in Washington, posts a three-page computer list of drugs in short supply, and every day the list is different. Some shortfalls last days, others years.
 One reason they are so common is linked to the high prices of many drugs, especially new ones. At every point in the chain, from manufacturer to distributor to hospital and drug store, the cost of keeping significant supplies of drugs on hand can be prohibitively expensive. ''You may have between two and three days of supply, at most, sitting on your shelf,'' Mr. Mark said. As a result, any disruption affects patients almost immediately.
 For older drugs, the problem may be the opposite: once generic versions are available, prices may fall so low that a major supplier may suddenly decide to drop out, and rivals may be slow to take up the slack.
 In most European countries, the government runs the health care system and buys the drugs that hospitals use. Prices for branded drugs are typically set lower than in the United States, while generics are higher. Hospitals have incentives to keep larger supplies on hand. And regulators keep closer tabs on supply issues.
 The Food and Drug Administration has a special team that deals with drug shortages in the United States, but the team has few powers. Federal law requires that sole suppliers of life-saving medicines must give six months' notice before voluntarily discontinuing production, but a company that merely supplies most of a crucial drug can stop any time without notice.
 Dr. Mark Goldberger, director of the F.D.A.'s drug shortage program, said his team tries to ensure that regulations do not impede companies from producing crucial medicines. ''But it's hard to imagine the government providing incentives across a broad range of medicines'' to keep supplies steady, he said. ''And I don't see other solutions, involving compelling people to make drugs or spending large amounts of government money, as realistic.''
 In America, market incentives yield innovation, but also uncertainty, said Jonathan Gruber, an economics professor at M.I.T. He said that Europe had gotten a free ride for decades by letting American patients bear the high costs of drug research. Vulnerability to shortages is part of that burden, he said.
 But Mr. Roberts of Harvard argued that at least for some medicines there was a good economic case for government solutions: vaccines, antivirals and antibiotics, for example, benefit everyone, not just the patient, because they decrease the risk of spreading infection. 
 Ensuring adequate supplies of goods that yield such benefits is ''a classic example of something that should not be left to the market alone,'' Mr. Roberts said. 
 Mr. Reinhardt said that the government's unwillingness to intervene to ensure supplies of crucial drugs stemmed from an American adulation for risk-taking. ''In some areas, it is important that the government be the insurer of last resort,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: High prices and profit pressures weigh against either drugmakers or hospitals stockpiling many vital drugs. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (92%); INFLUENZA (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); DRUG SHORTAGES (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); PHARMACISTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POLITICS (71%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); MERGERS (54%) Influenza; Shortages; Vaccination and Immunization; Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Gardiner Harris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



732 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey, Brie Nation Or Bellwether?

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON. 
Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Battleground once again or simply a state overeager to be wooed and won -- even if the most ardent suitor is an inarticulate president mired in a mess of his own making?
 Or is New Jersey really the Democratic stronghold it has led politicians to believe it is for the last decade. In that case, try convincing the nervous young mothers trolling the gleaming corridors of the Mall at Short Hills. 
 Are those sort-of-upscale mothers edgy because they -- like many in northern New Jersey -- know someone who died in the World Trade Center? Or is John Kerry responsible for that nervous tic, which he aggravates every time he tells residents of the state with the second-highest median household income that he wants to raise taxes on families that earn more than $200,000 a year? 
 Holy Hummer, that could mean the difference between Target and Bloomingdales.
 To political scientists, it comes down to this: Draw an X through New Jersey and you will have a reasonably good idea how the vote is going to break down on Tuesday. After all, they say, geography has a lot to do with political destiny.
 Ingrid Reed, director of the New Jersey Project at the Eagleton Institute at Rutgers, put it this way: the Republican axis runs from the exurbs in Morris, Sussex and Warren Counties south and eastward toward the shore communities in Ocean and Burlington, while the other, running from Newark and Jersey City southwest along the Turnpike to Trenton and Camden, includes the old, unionized centers of Democratic strength.
 ''And where they cross in the middle is where you have the area that can go any way,'' she said, referring to the growth centers and new office parks in Morris, Somerset, Middlesex and Mercer Counties.
 Then there is this year's wild card: almost a half-million new registered voters, the fruit (mostly) of the Democrats' hopes of mobilizing their base in the cities and among the young. 
 What you end up with is an unusually intense and emotionally-fraught presidential race that -- if early turnout in other states is any indication -- should inspire even the most sedentary homebody to drag himself to the local firehouse or elementary school cafeteria. 
 Battleground state? After a decade or more of being so reliably Democratic that even most of its home-grown Republicans are liberal compared with the likes of George Bush, John Ashcroft or Antonin Scalia?
 While citizens in a given area hardly think alike, they tend to vote in broadly the same pattern. As Ms. Reed explained, this self-selection is fortified within voting districts by the dominant party's tendency to cluster like-minded voters together.
 ''It's getting harder and harder to have districts that are politically mixed,'' she said. ''As people make decisions about where to move, they tend to moved to places where people are like them.''
 In New Jersey, such self-selection tends to break down this way: Voters in the big crescent-shaped archipelago of wealth stretching around the outer New York City suburbs are eager to keep the state's economic expansion going, and hope that President Bush's tax cuts will be made permanent.
 ''In parts of North Jersey, the new money is in advertising and financial services, and you have folks who may be social moderates but for whom the impulse is to keep the regional economy going,'' said David Rebovich, a political scientist at Rider University. ''I think that pushes Bush's numbers up in that region.''
 But in the university towns and bedroom communities for thousands of state employees near Trenton, the war in Iraq and the cultural signals coming from the two candidates are likely to be what people talk about the most.
 For instance, you can drive from northern Bergen County south along Route 17, and see the lawn signs on the side roads (behind the strip malls) gradually change from Bush/Cheney to Kerry/Edwards. 
 Or exit the Turnpike at Exit 8 and work your way across Mercer County, past the Bush/Cheney signs in the new suburbs of East and West Windsor and across Route 1 into Princeton, the ZIP code that sent more money (almost $1 million) to Howard Dean than any other in the country, and Republican lawn signs are as scarce as Kerry signs in Waco.
 But as James Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, pointed out, it is important to look beyond Princeton. 
 ''Princeton is more like the People's Republic of Princeton,'' Mr. Hughes said, ''very liberal and very prosperous, but most of the people there are not rich from their businesses, but well-to-do faculty and lawyers.''
 A more interesting bellwether, he said, might be Hamilton Township, one of the state's biggest municipalities -- once home of the original Reagan Democrats but now a mix of incomes and outlooks. Hamilton voted for Christie Whitman in 1993 but switched to James E. McGreevey in 2001 after backing Al Gore.
 But it is also heavily Catholic, and the Bishop of Trenton, John Smith, has been reminding his flock that they must follow their faith, not politicians morally adrift on issues of abortion and same-sex marriage.
 In other words, people can argue about the best way to get the economy moving or solve the crisis in Iraq, but personal values and culture are irreducible.
 ''I get the sense,'' said Brigid Harrison, a political science professor at Montclair State University, ''that people's passions are really getting ignited.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: IVER PETERSON 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); FAMILY (74%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ANTONIN SCALIA (50%) Iver Peterson; Ingred Reed; James W (Dean) Hughes; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



733 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: More Corporate Crime, Or Just Prosecutions?

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
GIANT insurance brokers are accused of taking kickbacks from insurance companies. Mutual fund managers allow preferred clients to trade after hours. Stockbrokers hype a stock to win underwriting business. 
 Every time New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, turns over a rock, he seems to find another corporate scam, reinforcing the view that something has gone terribly wrong with ethics in American commercial life. From Enron to Martha Stewart, a three-year tattoo of headlines has convinced many Americans that businesses in general are just out to fleece the unwary. Mr. Spitzer's investigation of Marsh & McLennan, the insurance broker, is the latest installment. 
 ''I believe we are in a period with more of this gamesmanship,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''Maybe the rewards just got so big that the temptations are bigger.''
 But is the flood tide of scandals evidence of a flood tide of malfeasance? 
 Economists have their doubts. Chicanery does tend to flourish when the economy is booming and regulation is weakening, they say, but the last few years have hardly been boom times. More likely, they say, is that bad business behavior is about as common now as it ever was, but that it has attracted more notice because Americans are tolerating it less. 
 For even as the incentives for companies to cheat are especially great in periods of economic and financial abundance, the desire to catch the crooks grows most intense after prosperous times go bust. 
 ''It is exaggerated to say that there is much more corporate malfeasance than in the past,'' said Luigi Zingales, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago. ''Malfeasance is just more likely to be revealed in recessions.''
 Indeed, revelations of fraud seem to be highly cyclical. So far this year (through last Friday), some 726 business articles containing the word fraud have appeared in The New York Times, almost three times as many as in all of 2000, the year when the technology-stock bubble burst. 
 From 1987, when the stock market peaked and plunged, to 1989, when the infamous savings and loan scandal culminated with the government takeover of Charles H. Keating Jr.'s Lincoln Savings, the incidence of ''fraud'' in Times business articles also jumped, from 280 a year to 587.
 Enforcers tend to be much more zealous during recessions than before them, and fighting corporate crime becomes a very popular cause when profits are scarce. The Securities and Exchange Commission engaged in 679 enforcement actions against firms of various sorts in the 2003 fiscal year; in 2000, the figure was just 503.
 ''Prosecutors are going after white-collar crime with an eagerness we hadn't seen before,'' said James D. Cox, a professor of law at Duke University. ''The state attorneys general realized that the governor-in-waiting, otherwise known as the attorney general, can get a lot of headlines.''
 Boom times leverage the incentives to deceive. Investors pay close attention to the ratio of stock prices to company earnings, a ratio that soared during the 1990's bull market; the higher the ratio went, the greater the bump a corporate executive could produce in the stock price by cooking up an extra dollar of earnings to report. This incentive became irresistible as companies gave their executives more and more of their pay in stock and stock options.
 Some regulatory changes were great for cheaters. In the 1990's, the new freedom to merge different kinds of firms into giant financial conglomerates created new opportunities for conflicts of interest, as separate arms of a company might be advising a client on a merger, selling its shares to the public and lending it money. Consolidation also made it possible for huge firms like Marsh & McLennan to virtually control the market by allocating contracts to insurers that paid it large fees. 
 Perhaps more important, though, prosperity promotes tolerance for deception. ''In a bubble, people want to be lied to,'' said John C. Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia Law School. ''It was more than a conflict of interest -- securities analysts boosted stocks because people wanted them to.''
 Fraud seems to hurt less when everyone is making money. As long as the stock market was scaling new heights in the late 1990's, few people worried much when ''earnings management'' morphed into outright cooking of the books. The fact that analysts never seemed to issue ''sell'' recommendations on companies that their investment banks were doing other business with seemed trivial in the broader context of generalized affluence. 
 Belief in industry self-regulation took hold in the go-go 1990's, and formal regulation was allowed to wither. Auditing lost much of its corrective power after auditors were freed from liability for their audits. Then, companies gave conflict of interest a new twist by hiring their auditors as consultants as well. 
 But when the market went south, investors became much less willing to be had. Faith in self-regulation took a beating, and new regulations like the Sarbanes-Oxley rules for corporate governance were passed. Suddenly less prosperous, Americans became much more willing to catch and punish abuses, and admiration for high fliers turned to suspicion. ''The social dynamics are sometimes more important than the law,'' Mr. Coffee said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Erik Johnson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); ETHICS (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); SAVINGS & LOANS (60%) Executives and Management; White Collar Crime; Ethics

COMPANY: MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (58%); MHM (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%); MARTHA STEWART (56%) Eduardo Porter; Eliot L (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



734 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: How to Place Your Bets While the Nation Holds Its Breath

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WHAT will the markets do if the winner of the presidential election isn't known for weeks? 
 Based on the long delay in the 2000 election, stock prices are likely to fall while Treasury prices are likely to climb. Such a pattern could create an opportunity for speculators who thrive in volatile conditions.
 Any short-term bet on the direction of the markets is risky, of course, but there are ways for traders to use futures and options in order to profit from a delay in election results. 
 Because polls show the election too close to call in many states, another long vote count is hardly out of the question. The Help America Vote Act of 2002, which enables voters to cast ballots even if their names are not on the local voting rolls, could add to delays, because these so-called provisional ballots have to be verified by local officials after the election. 
 In some swing states, the determination of the winner could turn on the provisional ballots. And analysts say verification questions could end up in the courts. 
 In 2000, the election outcome was up in the air from Election Day, Nov. 7, through Dec. 13, the day when Al Gore conceded defeat, after the markets closed. Late the previous night, the Supreme Court effectively ended the contest in favor of George W. Bush.
 From Election Day through Dec. 14 -- the first trading day when the outcome was certain -- stocks fell sharply. At the end of the period, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 6.4 percent and the Nasdaq was off 20.1 percent.
 But there was a rally in the Treasury market, with prices rising and yields falling. The yield on the 10-year note fell to 5.21 percent, a decline of more than six-tenths of a percentage point that produced a total return for the period of 5.4 percent. 
 The dollar rose 4.2 percent against the Japanese yen during that time but fell 3.3 percent against the euro. The price of crude oil, which was $32.86 a barrel the day before the election, dropped 14.8 percent, to $27.99.
 Obviously, the election hang-up was not the only factor moving the markets. Both the economy and corporate earnings growth were slowing down. Dell Computer lowered its sales forecast on Nov. 10, and BellSouth sharply cut its 2001 profits forecast on Nov. 17. Retail sales in November fell by an unexpected 0.4 percent.
 The negative news for stocks was good for the Treasury market, which, as it often does, became a haven for investors fleeing stocks. 
 Still, the political uncertainty was a negative backdrop that made other bad news even more unpalatable for stock investors and made the Treasury market even more attractive. On some days during the period, an election development was a major mover. On Nov. 18, for example, a judge in Florida issued a ruling that favored Mr. Bush, pushing up the Dow Jones industrial average by about 1 percent in 20 minutes. But concerns about earnings took hold again, and the rally fizzled minutes later. 
 With a war under way, and with major differences between the two candidates over tax and other economic policies, it is very possible that a delay this year would be even worse for the markets than it was in 2000. 
 Martin S. Fridson, publisher of Leverage World, an independent research service in the high-yield market, has reviewed the performance of the markets in 2000 and says he believes that delayed results would again lead to a stock market decline.
 He acknowledges that with interest rates as low as they are now, the Treasury market may not rally as much as it did in 2000. But he said Treasuries would still be a refuge for investors if stocks fell and uncertainty about the outcome lingered.
 As for high-yield or junk bonds -- his specialty -- the bet is more complicated, in part because such bonds have characteristics of both bonds and stocks. He argues that with Treasury yields falling, the high-yield market should suffer only a little this time, compared with its performance in 2000. During that period of election uncertainty, the high-yield market sold off sharply, with a loss of 1.7 percent, as it followed stock prices lower.
 ''For someone who really wants to speculate on this, the play is Treasuries versus stocks,'' he said.
 Sophisticated investors could bet on a rise in bond prices, for example, by buying Treasury futures and could bet on a fall in stocks by selling S.&P. futures. That type of bet is best suited to hedge fund and other institutional investors who have a lot of spare cash and are accustomed to going in and out of the futures or options markets.
 If there is no delay in the election outcome, investors could lose the thousands of dollars in fees they used to buy the futures or options. But, Mr. Fridson said, if there is a long delay, and if stocks and bonds perform as they did in 2000, speculators may make a killing while the country wonders.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Cost of Delay''From Election Day in 2000 to the day after Al Gore conceded Nov. 7 to Dec. 14 most financial markets declined, but Treasuries rose.Performance during the delay of the results of the 2000 election10-year Treasuries*: +5.4%Dollar vs. euro: -3.3%S.& P. 500-stock index: -6.4%Price of oil: -14.8%Nasdaq composite: -20.1%*Total return
 all others are price changes.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); FUTURES (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); BONDS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); JUDGES (73%); ELECTION LAW (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); EURO (61%); RETAIL SALES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000; Election Issues

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: AL GORE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



735 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; PAPERBACK ROW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 705 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:

THE MURDER ROOM, by P. D. James. (Vintage, $13.95.) James's 12th Commander Dalgliesh mystery preserves the element of old-fashioned, hair-raising intrigue as the dour poet-detective investigates a museum trustee's bizarre death (which resembles one of the notorious historical crimes showcased in the museum's most popular attraction, the Murder Room). Our critic, Patricia T. O'Conner, called this whodunit ''James's most suspenseful, atmospheric novel in years'' with ''no shortage of surprise twists.''

AMERICAN DYNASTY: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush, by Kevin Phillips. (Penguin, $15.) Phillips, the author of ''The Emerging Republican Majority'' (1969), deplores dynastic politics, a phenomenon whose ideal example he finds not in the Kennedys but in the Bushes. Phillips finds the family's influence behind everything from the president's pursuit of Saddam Hussein to his administration's ties to the energy industry. Craig Unger, in HOUSE OF BUSH, HOUSE OF SAUD: The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties (Scribner, $15), chronicles the ascent of two powerful clans -- the Bushes and the royal family of Saudi Arabia -- and argues that financial ties between the families feed the crisis in the Middle East.

QUICKSILVER: Volume One of the Baroque Cycle, by Neal Stephenson. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $15.95.) A sort of history-of-science fiction, this dizzyingly complex novel delves into the philosophy, economics and wars of the 17th and 18th centuries. The story involves, in part, the search for a man who holds the key to resolving an explosive scientific battle between Isaac Newton and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz over the development of calculus.

NIXON'S SHADOW: The History of an Image, by David Greenberg. (Norton, $15.95.) Thirty years after he resigned in disgrace, Richard Nixon remains a fascinating figure. Part biography, part anthropology, Greenberg's balanced exploration considers Nixon's life as it was lived and as it was -accurately and inaccurately -- perceived, and credits him with the rise of image manipulation in American politics.

HEAVEN'S EDGE, by Romesh Gunesekera. (Grove, $13.) Exile and rootlessness lie at the heart of Gunesekera's fiction. This wistful, mysterious third novel is set in a distant yet unspecified future in the author's native Sri Lanka. The story follows a narrator's journey from England to his ancestral home -- scarred by separatist civil wars -- in search of a missing past.

FRANKLIN AND WINSTON: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship, by Jon Meacham. (Random House, $16.95.) Meacham, the managing editor of Newsweek, gives a graceful account of the bond between Franklin Roosevelt and Winston Churchill, highlighting their similar backgrounds and shared passions (strong drink, high office), but also describing what made each man distinctive: ''Roosevelt was the better politician, Churchill the warmer human being.''

DIARY, by Chuck Palahniuk. (Anchor, $13.) Palahniuk delivers another absorbing thriller true to the spirit of his first novel, ''Fight Club.'' Misty Wilmot, a lonely artist-turned-waitress, struggles to care for her family while her husband lies comatose after a suicide attempt. As apocalyptic messages are gradually uncovered in the homes her husband renovated on Waytansea Island, the community of blue-blood islanders, preoccupied with a dark legend, begins to take interest in Misty's artistry.

REAGAN: A Life in Letters, edited by Kiron K. Skinner, Annelise Anderson and Martin Anderson. (Free Press, $18.95.) Organized around themes such as ''Hollywood Years and Friendships,'' ''Foreign Leaders'' and ''Core Beliefs,'' this collection of more than 1,000 letters covers some 70 years of Ronald Reagan's remarkable life.

THE NIGHT COUNTRY, by Stewart O'Nan. (Picador, $14.) O'Nan's novel is inhabited by the ghosts of three Connecticut teenagers killed in a car accident on Halloween. While readers experience the story through these spirits, the focus is on the sense of doom that follows those left behind. O'Nan's descriptions, Charles Taylor wrote, ''capture suburbia as the haunting grounds of teenagers and spooks, both of whom do their roaming after dark.'' Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Alixe Buckerfield De La Roche
 Shawn Grant)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FAMILY (88%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (74%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



736 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: A Local Congressional Race On the National Radar

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
AT a fist-pumping rally in Groton this month, the union men and women clapped, whistled and yelled for Jim Sullivan, the Democratic nominee for Congress from the Second District. Their support was unqualified, and they called his name as if he had spent his life hammering nails beside them. 
 ''Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy!''
 In a union hall in a worker's town, Mr. Sullivan would seem to have a clear edge over his rival, Representative Rob Simmons, a Republican. Mr. Sullivan was stumping with Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Christopher J. Dodd, two men known for their union-friendly voting records. And Mr. Sullivan, 38, was pounding into George W. Bush, whose poll numbers in this district leave him trailing John Kerry by double digits. 
 But allegiances in this race are unpredictable.
 Paul Whitehouse, who passed near the Boilermaker's Hall shortly after the rally, also belongs to a union that supports Jim Sullivan, but he's planning to vote for Mr. Simmons.
 ''Working here at Electric Boat and with the submarine base such an important part of our economy here, he's got more contacts and he can do more for the area,'' Mr. Whitehouse said of Mr. Simmons, who sits on the House Armed Services Committee.
 Mr. Whitehouse said Mr. Simmons had also been supportive of a conservation group in his hometown, Niantic, that works to preserve the Niantic River. Though Mr. Whitehouse is ''not really a Republican'' and plans to vote for Mr. Kerry, he said he does not think a vote for Mr. Simmons is the same as a vote for Mr. Bush.
 ''I don't really buy into the idea that he's a Bush clone, by any means,'' Mr. Whitehouse said.
 The race for the Second District has attracted national attention, as one of a handful of competitive races. With only two points separating the incumbent from the challenger, according to the latest poll, politicians from throughout the country, including Senator John McCain and Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, have traveled to the district. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee have pumped millions into Eastern Connecticut to try to swing the race. 
 The district has more Democrats than Republicans, but unaffiliated voters outnumber members of either party. 
 Mr. Kennedy ranked the contest as ''one of the top one or two'' in the nation. ''There's a lot of excitement here,'' he said.
 Voters said the race has generated lots of talk in the area. Everybody seems to have an opinion ''like the Yankees and Red Sox,'' Mr. Whitehouse said.
 Mr. Sullivan has painted his opponent as a George Bush clone. At the Groton rally, he never mentioned Mr. Simmons without also mentioning Mr. Bush in the same sentence. Mr. Simmons has voted for many of the bills and resolutions that have defined the Bush administration. He supported Mr. Bush's tax cuts, No Child Left Behind and the Medicare prescription drug bill and has voted with the party on issues involving the Iraq war. He also voted against allowing prescription drugs to be reimported into the United States from countries like Canada, a vote that Mr. Sullivan has said shows his right-wing inclinations. 
 But Mr. Simmons, 61, has gained a reputation for breaking with the party on certain issues, including environmental legislation and abortion. The League of Conservation Voters, for example, has endorsed Mr. Simmons, and he got perfect scores last year from abortion rights groups. Overall, Mr. Simmons voted with the president 67 percent of the time in 2003, compared with 78 percent in 2002 and 77 percent in 2001, according to Project Vote Smart, a nonpartisan Web site that tracks voting records.
 A recent study by Congressional Quarterly ranked Mr. Simmons the third most independent Republican in the House, tied with Christopher Shays, who represents Connecticut's Fourth District.
 Mr. Simmons, a Vietnam War veteran and former operations officer with the C.I.A. who is seeking his third term, said the attempt to portray him as a close political ally of Mr. Bush is ''political nonsense.''
 ''Dozens and dozens of votes'' separate him and the president, he said in an interview after a dedication ceremony on Monday at the Newington Veterans Hospital. ''There's no point saying I'm like George Bush. It's just not true.''
 Mr. Simmons said his opponent, whose political experience includes two terms on the Norwich City Council and stints on various community boards, is too inexperienced to lead in difficult times. 
 The National Republican Congressional Committee has played close attention to the race, funding numerous commercials and fliers that criticize Mr. Sullivan's votes to raise taxes and utility rates when he was on the Norwich City Council. The committee also portrayed Mr. Simmons as an independent voice.
 ''Rob Simmons doesn't always stand by the Republican Party, but when he's attacked we'll come to his defense,'' said Chris Paulitz, press secretary for the committee.
 ''It's the biggest swing district in the country,'' he added.
 But Mr. Sullivan said his opponent had voted with the president on too many important issues, including health care and education issues, to claim independence.
 ''We've had a congressman who has supported the Bush administration and the Republican leadership blindly,'' he said. 
 Mr. Sullivan said he would not have voted to authorize the president to use force against Iraq and that Mr. Simmons's past experience as a C.I.A. employee should have clued him in to the thin evidence of weapons in Iraq.
 Mr. Simmons said the best available intelligence pointed to Saddam Hussein as a threat.
 ''I didn't write this stuff,'' he said in a recent interview, pulling from his pocket a declassified document on Iraqi arms. ''I didn't make it up. I read it.''
 Mr. Sullivan also said he would have voted against a recent bill that gave billions in tax cuts to corporations. That $137 billion tax cut bill included a tax deferral for General Dynamics, the company that employs many of the workers in Groton's boatyard. Mr. Sullivan said he would have tried to finance that part of the tax cut some other way.
 He said he would not raise taxes on the middle class, but agreed with Mr. Kerry on rolling back the cuts for people making more than $200,000. The tax cuts Mr. Simmons has voted for the past four years are evidence that he is out of touch with the district, which has lost thousands of jobs over the past four years, Mr. Sullivan and his advisors said.
 ''There are very few millionaires in the second district,'' said Roy Occhiogrosso, a senior advisor to Mr. Sullivan's campaign.
 Meanwhile, the candidates were hustling around the district, fighting for undecided voters and lobbying those supporters who may be wavering.
 Joseph P. Guerra, a carpenter from Ledyard, said residents were passionate about this race.
 ''In this district, you'll see people lining up in the rain to vote,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Senator Christopher J. Dodd and Jim Sullivan at an event in Groton.
 Representative Rob Simmons of the Second District at a campaign stop in Lyme. Polls show that he and Jim Sullivan are running a close race. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%) Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); TED KENNEDY (77%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (72%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%) Jim Sullivan; Rob (Repr) Simmons; Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



737 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Campaign; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Imagine if Texas and the Bronx Mattered

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

DATELINE: Dubuque, Iowa 

 BODY:
EXCEPT for the stop at a dairy barn, where Karl Rove got in a friendly iceball fight with reporters, it was a routine day for the Bush campaign: a bus trip through Wisconsin farm country; the roads lined with voters who had already seen both presidential candidates roll past their corn fields. As usual, the president extolled the heartland virtue of self-reliance while pledging to continue subsidies for dairy farmers and ethanol producers.
 At the end of the day, during a rally across the Mississippi River in Dubuque, Iowa, Mr. Rove was asked this question: Where would he have spent the day, the week before the election, if the president were chosen by popular vote instead of by the Electoral College? 
 Not in Dubuque, he said, and not on a bus tour through rural Wisconsin. ''Candidates would be flying to New York and Los Angeles and population centers where they could reach the largest number of voters,'' said Mr. Rove, the president's master tactician. ''You'd be putting together coalitions of the biggest cities and counties instead of coming to these communities.''
 That prospect didn't appeal to Mr. Rove, who praised the current system for forcing candidates to appeal to rural voters, but he's in the minority. For decades, polls have found that most Americans favor eliminating the Electoral College, and this year it is an especially popular fantasy for the forgotten voters in more than three dozen states that aren't battlegrounds.
 Political scientists disagree on the wisdom of a popular-vote election; some argue that it would destabilize the country by encouraging more third-party candidates. But there is little doubt that it would force candidates to pay attention to more voters in more places. Every voter in the red and blue states would suddenly be worth just as much as a dairy farmer in Wisconsin, and that may have implications for the country's policies and political culture.
 Instead of tripping over each other in Midwestern towns, candidates would discover that Manhattan is more than a quick stop for fund-raisers. Mr. Kerry would probably be explaining his urban agenda to crowds in Brooklyn and the Bronx; Mr. Bush might be holding town halls in Staten Island. 
 The problems of factory workers in Ohio would no longer be a staple of the evening news. Nevada's Yucca Mountain, the proposed site for a nuclear waste repository, would not be a campaign issue. Florida's hurricane victims would probably get a few billion dollars less in federal aid. Congress might be more interested in a new earthquake research initiative for California or transit aid to New York. 
 Mr. Kerry, less worried about offending Michigan's autoworkers than winning over environmentalists on both coasts, would probably spend more time on the stump discussing his plans for higher fuel-economy standards. In the South, now terra incognita to both campaigns, Mr. Kerry would be visiting black churches in Atlanta and college towns in Texas. 
 Mr. Bush would probably be making more explicit appeals to gun owners and evangelical Christians in his frequent visits to southern cities like Houston. He would be rallying the faithful in Orange County, Calif., and courting moderate Republicans outside Boston.
 The Democrats, of course, would have benefited from a popular-vote election in 2000. But some polls this year show Mr. Bush doing better nationally than in some big battleground states, raising the possibility that he could win the popular vote while losing the Electoral College. Still, the Democrats might at least have a logistical advantage in campaign travel, said Doug Sosnik, a senior strategist for the Kerry campaign.
 ''The Democratic votes are more concentrated in big cities, whereas the Republicans would have to move around the country more to reach their voters,'' he said. While both candidates would do occasional symbolic tours of farm country, if only for the wholesome photo opportunities, voters in small cities and rural areas would mainly be reached through television commercials. 
 ''The rule would be, travel to the big cities to get free media, because it's worth so much more, and then buy media in the smaller markets,'' Mr. Sosnik said. 
 While the campaigns now advertise mostly on local stations in battleground states, in a race decided by popular vote, viewers of network television would be unable to escape their commercials. ''If it were a popular-vote election, it would probably be more efficient to buy national television,'' said Matthew Dowd, the chief strategist for the Bush campaign.
 Candidates would surely pay more attention to voting blocs that are now mostly ignored: blacks in the South, Democrats in the Plains and Rockies, Republicans in New England. The protectionist rhetoric now aimed at Midwest factory workers might be tempered to appease voters on both coasts whose jobs depend on free trade. Eastern suburbanites' concerns about the environment and gun control would matter more; so would Westerners' complaints about federal land-use policies.
 But the basic campaign-commercials and slogans might not change much, said Stuart Stevens, a media consultant to the Bush campaign.
 ''If you look at the states in play now, it's not a bad microcosm of the country,'' he said. ''Ohio and Florida and Pennsylvania have a good cross-section of voters. You could argue that it would be fairer to make it more of a national campaign, but maybe there's something uniquely good about forcing campaigns to concentrate in a few states and do hand-to-hand combat in small markets.''
 What if a popular-vote election were excruciatingly close? Some defenders of the Electoral College, like Senator Mitch McConnell, a Republican from Kentucky, warn that the Florida 2000 legal battle could be played out in 50 states. But others say the Florida debacle is a good reason to switch to a popular vote.
 ''The Electoral College magnifies the impact of fraud,'' said George C. Edwards III, the author of the new book, ''Why the Electoral College Is Bad for America'' and a political scientist at Texas A&M University ''In 2000, you could change the outcome of the election by stealing 538 votes in Florida. But with popular voting, you'd have had to steal a thousand times that number.''
 Mr. Edwards acknowledges that there's little desire among Republican leaders in Congress to eliminate the Electoral College, but he says that might change on Tuesday. ''If George Bush gets the most votes and John Kerry wins the Electoral College,'' he said, ''then reform is a real possibility.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)Chart/Maps: ''You Don't Write, You Don't Call''In most states, the winner takes all the electoral votes. No surprise, then, the candidates spend most of their time in a dozen or so hotly contested states and ignore the rest. In the absence of an electoral college, they would almost surely focus on more populous states.MAP KEYVoting-age citizens (millions)Map of the United States illustrating the number of voting-age citizens in each state and the number of campaign events from Sept. 3-Oct. 29.MOST EVENTS: Florida, 67Tale of Two StatesThe experiences of two Midwestern states in the campaign could not have been more different.2000 RESULTS BY COUNTYMap of Ohio highlighting the counties won by Bush or Gore in 2000 and the location of campaign events (BUSH/CHENEY, KERRY/EDWARDS) from Sept. 3-Oct. 29.Map of Illinois highlighting the counties won by Bush or Gore in 2000 and the location of campaign events (BUSH/CHENEY, KERRY/EDWARDS) from Sept. 3-Oct. 29.OhioELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 20VOTING-AGE CITIZENS (MILLIONS, 2003 EST.): 8.48MARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000 (PERCENTAGE POINTS)BUSH: 3.51RECENT POLL (Oct. 17-20, margin of error +/- 4 pts.*)KERRY: 48%BUSH: 47%CAMPAIGN EVENTS, SEPT. 3-OCT. 29BUSH/CHENEY: 27KERRY/EDWARDS: 38IllinoisELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 21VOTING-AGE CITIZENS (MILLIONS, 2003 EST.): 8.62MARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000 (PERCENTAGE POINTS)GORE: 12.02RECENT POLL (Oct. 17-20, margin of error +/- 4 pts.+)KERRY: 50%BUSH: 42%CAMPAIGN EVENTS, SEPT. 3-OCT. 29BUSH/CHENEY: 1KERRY/EDWARDS: 0(Sources by Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
U.S. Census data analyzed by the Queens College Department of Sociology
Polls by *Gallup/CNN/USA Today and +Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV)
 (Maps by James Bronzan and Hugh K. Truslow/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BIOFUELS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); ETHANOL (71%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (60%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); HURRICANES (50%); FACTORY WORKERS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Electoral College; Third-Party Movements (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); KARL ROVE (90%); AL GORE (88%); JOHN F TIERNEY (72%) John Tierney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



738 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Rock Stars Are Highlight, But Kerry Is the Headliner

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Bruce Springsteen is a hard act to follow, and Senator John Kerry was not born to perform. But the huge, high-voltage crowds who gathered this week to cheer on the Democratic presidential candidate did not care about his skill as a performer. At back-to-back rallies across the battleground states, on leaf-dusted streets and college lawns, at civic arenas and bayfront amphitheaters, Mr. Kerry's supporters packed away any concerns they once had about his charisma. They were galvanized, they said, by his ideas.
 Even in this final week of his presidential campaign, Mr. Kerry still seemed at times like a man without rhythm who had painstakingly mastered the dance steps but could not quite sync his gait to the music. In contrast, Mr. Springsteen, by his side at rally after rally, delivered a singularly lyrical and eloquent summation of Mr. Kerry's political message, all while strumming his guitar.
 Still, while Mr. Springsteen was a highlight, he was never the headliner. In defiance of the idea that this is an era of personality politics, where style trumps substance, Mr. Kerry was drawing hundreds of thousands to rallies by what they saw as the strength of his political positions. 
 Roaring approval when Mr. Kerry raised such once-wonky topics as embryonic stem cell research, his supporters seemed to be energized most by issues -- Iraq, unemployment, health care, same-sex marriage -- that touched them personally.
 ''My fiance is in Iraq, I want him to come home now, and I don't want him to be shipped off ever again for unclear reasons,'' said Anne Spooner, 20, who was jumping out of her white flip-flops to catch a glimpse of Mr. Kerry in Orlando on Friday. ''If Kerry is a little awkward, so be it. We're electing a president, not a celebrity.''
 For Mr. Kerry, at least before the Osama bin Laden video was released late Friday, the high-paced final week of this neck-and-neck presidential campaign was all about invigorating his supporters to get out the vote in the states that could swing either way. And so, surrounded by red, white and blue bunting, by the Boilermakers for Kerry, the Sheet Metal Workers for Kerry, the Women for Kerry, he exhorted.
 ''This is the most important election of our lifetime,'' he declared, again and again, his voice alternately robust and hoarse. On Nov. 2, he told his supporters, the fate of this country -- which he described as psychologically and economically depressed -- would be in their hands.
 ''That's an awesome responsibility,'' said Natalie Willard, a small-business owner in Toledo, Ohio. ''But I don't think he exaggerates the despair that's out there or the high stakes of this election.'' 
 At the rallies, Mr. Kerry's supporters, many of whom discussed surmounting their initially lukewarm feelings about him, cheered wildly when he hit his punch lines, laughed at his jokes and booed Mr. Bush with gusto. 
 And, as Election Day grew ever nearer, Mr. Kerry -- who is known as a good ''closer,'' the Keith Foulke of political candidates -- seemed increasingly buoyed by the crowd. (His spirits were particularly buoyant the morning after the Red Sox World Series victory in which Mr. Foulke delivered the winning pitch.)
 He leaped onto stages, pumped his fist in the air, grinned toothily to the roars of the crowds, slid out of his suit jacket, rolled up his sleeves, unhooked his microphone and lit into President Bush.
 ''When George Bush heard I was traveling with the Boss, he thought they meant Dick Cheney,'' he said to rip-snorting laughter in Madison, Wis., and Columbus, Ohio.
 Although Mr. Kerry was criticized earlier for not going on the offensive against Mr. Bush, he is making up for lost time, much to the delight of his supporters. ''Isn't it about time we had a president who could do more than one thing at the same time?'' he asks. He also tries to refute charges that he has no plan by offering a groaning buffet table of ambitious priorities, from overhauling health care policy to weaning America from its dependence on Middle East oil.
 There's something refreshingly archaic about the provincial pep rallies that, complete with bleacher stomping and confetti, consumed the candidates this week. However expensive and sophisticated the campaigns' advertising and use of media, they still have found no substitute for going directly to the people. And if the crowds can seem like backdrops in clips on the evening news, they are very much individuals in person, bringing a variety of needs and interests to their local arenas.
 Augusta Rodgers, 13, traveled to the Kerry rally in Rochester, Minn., on Wednesday wearing a tiara and a ''Miss National Preteen Princess'' banner draped across her pink corduroy jacket. She brought a pink postcard with a picture of herself, inscribed: ''Dear Mr. Kerry, Keep up the good work! Sincerely, Augusta Rodgers.'' She said she is a student of the political process, adding, ''I want to be the first girl president.''
 Mary Tostenson, a 50-year-old with long blond hair and a black leather jacket, is less ambitious. She just wants to keep her four children safe, she said, especially the son who is a soldier and just returned from Kosovo. 
 Ms. Tostenson, an office worker who brought her 18-year-old daughter to the Minnesota rally to celebrate her birthday, voted for George W. Bush in 2000 because he struck her as sincere, she said.
 ''But he lied to us about the war,'' Ms. Tostenson said. ''Our boys are over there and dying and not for the reason we were told. If we re-elect him, how many more boys will we lose and what country will we invade next?''
 At an arena in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Thursday, Stacy Pisarik, 30, acknowledged that she had not voted in the last presidential election. She did not really care about politics, she said, until the local economy went sour. As a college graduate, she never expected to struggle to earn a living, but she does, working two jobs and commuting a long distance to one of them. Mr. Kerry, she said, really seems to care about the middle class, however wealthy he is.
 Ms. Pisarik was not entirely focused on Mr. Kerry at the rally, however. Before she turned to a discussion of job losses in Iowa, she was shrieking with excitement because Jon Bon Jovi, who performs as a warm-up act for Mr. Kerry, had tossed her a campaign T-shirt. 
 Mr. Kerry's fans waited hours to see him this week, and it fell to celebrities or local politicians or Kerry family members to keep them entertained and pump up their energy. In Rochester, Minn., Garrison Keillor led the crowd in a rendition of ''The Star-Spangled Banner,'' conducting with his hands; Carole King sang ''You've Got a Friend''; and Andre Heinz, in a nod to the ethnic background of many Minnesotans, gave a resounding endorsement of his stepfather in fluent Swedish.
 At many rallies, the crowd was rollicking by the time that Mr. Kerry was introduced as ''the next president of the United States.'' 
 In Columbus, Ohio, Larry and Jodie Wolfe, who wore bright yellow ''Firefighters for Kerry and Edwards'' T-shirts, said they were choosing to be optimistic. Mr. Wolfe, a lieutenant with the Columbus Fire Department, said, ''Everything's kind of gone down the toilet the last four years, and the only way out is up.''
 Craig Thompson, standing beside the Wolfes, jumped into the conversation.
 ''I'm her brother, and I'm a doctor, and I'm gay,'' he said. ''This is my partner of 12 years,'' he added, nodding to the man beside him. ''Bush would climb over my back to get votes where Kerry was one of the few senators who voted against the Defense of Marriage Act. Plus he's married to Teresa, who the gay community knows as Mama T. She said she'd have more gay people in the White House. I'm like, 'You go, Teresa.'''
 A knot of teenagers identified themselves as the social studies club of Dublin Sciotto High School, where students, as partisan and divided as the adults in Ohio, are engaged in constant, passionate debates about the elections.
 ''My parents both lost their jobs in the last four years,'' said Brittany Nye, a senior. ''I'm not necessarily saying it's Bush's entire fault, but my mom never lost a job before.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kerry supporters from the Elizabeth community in Charlotte, N.C., erected a wall 12 feet high and 40 feet long of 300 carved, lighted pumpkins. (Photo by Byron Baldwin/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); MUSIC (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (52%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (51%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Deborah Sontag; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



739 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS NARROWING AS CLOSE CONTEST NEARS FINISH LINE

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The 2004 presidential campaign is ending as it began, focused with blazing intensity on no more than a dozen hard-fought states, with the tinglingly close contest between President Bush and Senator John Kerry depending most, both parties agree, on three pivotal states: Florida, Pennsylvania and Ohio.
 The candidates have invested tens of millions of dollars on advertising there, deployed armies of field workers and spent hundreds of hours on the stump, including visits in the race's final weekend. With the furor over a new Osama bin Laden tape filtering through the campaigns, both men crossed through Midwestern swing states on Saturday and are to appear in Florida on Sunday.
 As a result, cities like Orlando, Pittsburgh and Columbus, and their suburbs, have watched the struggle from close range while Chicago, Dallas, New York and Los Angeles have squinted at it from bleacher seats. 
 In the end, the outcome is likely to be decided by what political pros call ''the ground war'': the effort by both parties to get every supporter to the polls on Tuesday. Although there are almost limitless ways either candidate could reach the magic number of 270 electoral votes needed to win, whoever wins two of the big three states would have an advantage that would be difficult to overcome.
 With only 72 hours until the polls begin opening, Pennsylvania, with 21 electoral votes, appeared to be trending Mr. Kerry's way, with most but not all opinion surveys showing him ahead by about three percentage points. Mr. Bush has failed to dent the four suburban Philadelphia counties, whose liberal attitudes on social issues like abortion and gun control have overshadowed their economic conservatism.
 Florida, with 27 electoral votes, was agonizingly close four years ago, with far-reaching consequences, and it is the hardest of the big states to read this year. If anyone holds an advantage, it is probably Mr. Bush, if only because of the influence of his brother Jeb, the governor. But the Democrats, energized by the sting of their agonizing defeat in 2000, seem to be benefiting more from the outpouring of early voters.
 Here in Ohio, which has 20 electoral votes, Mr. Kerry has capitalized on job losses during the Bush administration. He seems to hold a tenuous lead as volunteers from both parties pour into the state, often seen as a microcosm of the nation, to get out the vote. He has taken to carrying a lucky buckeye in his pocket. No Republican has ever been elected president without carrying Ohio, and the state has gone with the winner in all but two elections since 1892.
 ''It's as close as it could conceivably be,'' said Eric Rademacher, who directs the University of Cincinnati's Ohio Poll. ''Closer than I've ever seen before. Close here and several other states. We may not know the outcome until mid-November.''
 Searching for ways to salvage a victory even if beaten in the big shows, both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush belatedly began wooing the voters of Michigan (17 electoral votes). A win there could very nearly make up for a loss in Ohio. They have also intensified their pursuit of a troika of smaller Midwestern states that Al Gore won by narrow margins in 2000: Minnesota and Wisconsin (10 each) and Iowa (7). All three are treacherously close this time, with Ralph Nader a real threat to Mr. Kerry in Minnesota, a state notably fond of third-party candidates.
 Colorado (9), New Mexico and Nevada (5 each) and New Hampshire (4) are all in play as well, with the potential of contributing to a winning equation.
 A series of hairbreadth finishes could plunge the nation into treacherous straits, with lawsuits in multiple states, a far more complex prospect than the legal contest in 2000, which was confined to Florida. Several suits have already been filed. But the huge numbers of newly registered voters could confound all the forecasts.
 Battleground-state previews by New York Times reporters follow.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a diagram yesterday showing the crucial battleground states where the presidential candidates have focused much of their attention in the last days of their campaigns omitted labels in some copies. A corrected version is online at nytimes.com/corrections.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Where the Candidates Are Chasing Votes''As the campaign nears its final days, the presidential candidates have crisscrossed the nation, making dozens of stops in the crucial battleground states that may hold the key to the election. With two days to go, the campaigns are focusing on 12 key states - 6 of which went for George W. Bush in 2000, 6 for Al Gore - that hold 141 electoral votes.States won by Bush in 2000.BUSHCOLO.: 9NEV.: 5OHIO: 20 -- Ohio had the second-highest number of campaign events since Sept. 3, with 65.ARK.: 6 -- Arkansas, long written off by Democrats as a victory for Mr. Bush, jumped back into the playing field last week when polls showed the race tightening.FLA.: 27 -- Since Sept. 3, the candidates had more events in Florida than anywhere else, with 67 appearances.States won by Gore in 2000.GOREN.M.: 5MINN.: 10MICH.: 17IOWA: 7WIS.: 10PA.: 21Electoral vote countSOLID OR LEANING BUSH: 207SOLID OR LEANING KERRY: 190SWING STATES: 141Map of United States highlighting campaign events since Sept. 3 by John kerry or John Edwards and George W. Bush or Dick Cheney in the states listed above.Campaign events, by weekMap of United States highlighting swing states where campaign events were held by candidates since Sept. 5th. (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); TRENDS (64%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (64%); GUN CONTROL (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); AL GORE (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%) R W Jr Apple; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida; Pennsylvania; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



740 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Arkansas

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Almost alone in the South, Arkansas has traditionally been a place where Democrats can win federal office. Even though President Bush carried the state in 2000 by five percentage points, both of its senators and all but one of its House members are Democrats.
 ''Until relatively recently Arkansas didn't have as big an influx of people from other parts of the country,'' said Andrew Dowdle, a political science professor at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, adding that white voters had not abandoned the Democratic Party as they had in other parts of the region. ''Without the battle over race and without new voters coming in, the Republican Party never really had a chance to get the dominance that it got in some of the other states,'' Dr. Dowdle said. 
 But as more Republican voters have moved in, that balance has been shifting. Voters in the state, which Democrats refer to as a Southern oasis and Republicans label a place of weakening entrenchment, tend to reflect the more economically and socially conservative values espoused by Mr. Bush.
 Several voters supporting Mr. Bush said they liked his commitment to low taxes and his opposition to abortion. Consultants and campaign officials say security is the most important issue in the state, which would also tend to help Mr. Bush, because many polls suggest most voters have more confidence in his ability to keep the country safe.
 At the same time, aides to Senator John Kerry are seeing renewed opportunity, with a recent poll showing that he had pulled even with Mr. Bush. And with many Arkansans fighting in Iraq, political experts say, there has been intense news coverage of the rising casualties. That, coupled with mixed economic news and what polls suggested were strong debate performances, could be working to Mr. Kerry's advantage, they say.
 Neither candidate has visited since the summer, but radio and television have suddenly been flooded with advertisements as the Republicans move to counter a late push by the Democrats. And the Kerry campaign is hoping that a visit by former President Bill Clinton on Sunday will spur turnout among core Democratic voters.
 Indeed, each campaign says that turnout holds the key to victory. ''Everybody says, 'Well, who's going to carry Arkansas?''' said Gov. Mike Huckabee, who is the state chairman of the Bush campaign. ''The answer is whoever gets their voters out.'' DIANE CARDWELL


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (78%) ARKANSAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



741 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Florida

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Florida remains intensely contested, with President Bush and Senator John Kerry drawing nearly equal support, both candidates still dashing through the state and wary voters gripped by anxiety.
 About 1.5 million early and absentee votes have already been cast, suggesting that turnout among the 10.3 million registered voters could outpace that in 2000. Newspaper analyses have shown far more Democrats than Republicans casting early votes in person, many of them African-American. 
 The Kerry campaign has seized on residual anger from the state's recount in 2000, which gave Mr. Bush a victory margin of 537 votes. Democratic lawyers are pouring into the state to watch for voter intimidation or disenfranchisement. Republicans, meanwhile, say they may challenge the eligibility of some Democratic voters.
 Polls show Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry within a few percentage points in the state, though one, by The Los Angeles Times, showed Mr. Bush with an eight-point lead.
 Mr. Bush benefits from Florida's economy, which has outperformed the nation's as a whole, and from the state's large military population, which appears to be leaning in his direction. He also has the advantage of his brother, the popular Gov. Jeb Bush, who has put aside his state duties for the last days of the campaign to focus on helping the president win Florida's 27 electoral votes.
 But political strategists say Mr. Kerry could benefit from 1.5 million new voters, many of whom are independents and likely to vote Democratic. Many are Hispanic immigrants, including Cubans, who usually vote Republican but may shift to Mr. Kerry out of anger over Mr. Bush's Cuba policy. 
 Governor Bush will appear with the president at rallies in Miami, Gainesville and Tampa on Sunday, while Mr. Kerry, who made three stops here on Friday, will return Sunday for an event in Tampa. Vice President Dick Cheney, Mr. Bush's wife, Laura, and their twin daughters traveled the state last week, too, while former President Bill Clinton came on behalf of Mr. Kerry.
 The Republicans have enlisted 90,000 volunteers to help make calls, knock on doors and drive voters to the polls. Democrats are largely leaving such work to independent groups like America Coming Together. 
 Civil rights groups are worried about possible challenges of voter eligibility, saying Secretary of State Glenda Hood, a Republican appointee of Governor Bush, has not done enough to prevent frivolous challenges. 
 Rights groups and Democratic politicians waged unsuccessful legal battles seeking printed receipts for voters who use touch-screen voting machines and fighting the disqualification of new voters who left information off their registration forms. ABBY GOODNOUGH


GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman participating in a voter-turnout operation on behalf of Senator John Kerry carried a sign yesterday in Miami. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ELECTION FRAUD (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DICK CHENEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); TAMPA, FL, USA (74%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



742 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: An Anchor Sees Opportunity In Departure of His Old Rival

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
The commercials are as patriotic as those created for any presidential candidate. As wistful piano chords provide the soundtrack, a parade of Rockwellian images -- front porches, mothers and children, construction workers and an American flag -- passes by. 
 These ads, however, were not created for President Bush or Senator John Kerry, but for Peter Jennings, the longtime anchor of ABC's ''World News Tonight.''
 And they are a result of an extremely rare moment in television news. On Dec. 2, for the first time in 21 years, one of the big broadcast networks will replace the anchor of its evening newscast, when Tom Brokaw yields the top-rated ''NBC Nightly News'' to Brian Williams. That transition is expected to touch off a period of anchor shopping among some of the nearly 25 million viewers who still watch the evening news on the broadcast networks each night. 
 Seeking to reclaim the ratings lead he lost seven years ago, Mr. Jennings, 66, is making the most of the changing of the guard, and in a manner unusually personal and pointed for the typically clubby competition of the network news divisions. Mr. Jennings has taken to the road to interview voters and candidates, and meet advertisers, in electoral swing states like Ohio and Pennsylvania, which are also battlefields in the ratings contest between the nightly news programs of NBC and ABC. 
 And while the ads created for -- and featuring -- Mr. Jennings do not mention his principal opponent, the tag line, in the eyes of some in the industry, appears to be an unmistakable shot across the anchor desk. 
 ''Trust,'' the narrator intones, ''is earned.''
 Mr. Jennings deferred questions about the marketing campaign to ABC News management. And with tens of millions of dollars of advertising at stake -- and the boasting rights of first place -- Jon Banner, the executive producer of ''World News Tonight,'' makes no apologies for the promotional campaign. 
 ''This is an opportunity for us to brag about the strengths of our broadcast,'' Mr. Banner said, referring to the credibility Mr. Jennings's long career as a correspondent and anchor provides. ''It's an opportunity we don't want to pass up.''
 Asked if the ads, which began running in July, were aimed at the 45-year-old Mr. Williams, a former White House correspondent whose main experience as an anchor is on NBC's cable channels, Mr. Banner said, ''You can read into it whatever you want.'' 
 Mr. Jennings began a trip earlier this month in Missouri, where he addressed a luncheon audience of 1,000 at a rodeo-and-livestock show in Kansas City. He then spent parts of the four-day trip aboard a customized bus previously used by the pop singer Justin Timberlake, which is now painted red, white and blue and emblazoned with stars and stripes and the ABC logo.
 Such reporting trips, which nicely dovetail with efforts to energize the base of advertisers and affiliates, have long been a part of an anchor's responsibility. 
 But Mr. Jennings did not embark on such elaborate trips so close to the election in 2000. And ABC News management planned his recent tours with the upcoming anchor change clearly in mind.
 In a late-night interview between Cleveland and Pittsburgh on this most recent trip in mid-October, his tie loosened and a plastic foam cup filled with white wine before him, Mr. Jennings took pains to explain his ambivalence about these double-edged trips.
 ''I accept that management wants me to be out there improving the circulation status of the broadcast,'' he said. ''But if I were to start thinking that, it would have a horrible effect on my behavior.''
 But any doubts that these tours served more than journalistic duty were put to rest by his display of retail politicking at a country club outside Pittsburgh. As he moved through a crowd of about three dozen grocery store owners, bathroom remodelers and furniture store owners -- local advertisers or prospective advertisers all -- he queried each about business, sometimes jotting notes in the slim reporter's notebook that is always wedged in the waistband of his pants.
 No detail is squandered. ''We started off talking about carpets,'' Mr. Jennings said, referring by name to one small-business owner sitting at a front table, before segueing into a conversation about the economy and his travels through Egypt.
 Mr. Williams, of course, has not accumulated the resume or foreign postings of Mr. Jennings. Being 21 years younger can account for much of that discrepancy. But Mr. Williams has followed a different career path than Mr. Jennings, and the tag line of the ABC ads -- however indirectly -- attempts to exploit that difference.
 Mr. Jennings dropped out of high school in his native Ontario at the age of 17 to become a journalist, and spent more than a decade serving as a foreign correspondent for ABC before being handed the anchor chair on Sept. 5, 1983, the same night Mr. Brokaw began his run. (Mr. Jennings became an American citizen in the summer of 2003.)
 Mr. Williams, who had not been posted permanently as a foreign correspondent, has spent the better part of a decade as an anchor.
 ''I've only met Brian a couple of times,'' Mr. Jennings said. ''I've watched him on the air. He's a very good broadcaster.
 ''As I look at Brian coming on,'' Mr. Jennings added, ''I think a little bit about myself at a younger age. The anchor job is quite restraining.''
 He continued, ''I wonder if in time he'll come to wish he spent more time on the road.''
 NBC executives, who declined to comment on the ABC ads, did point out that when Mr. Williams has substituted for Mr. Brokaw in recent years, he has consistently held Mr. Brokaw's lead over Mr. Jennings. They also noted that so far this fall season, Mr. Brokaw's lead had grown to more than a million viewers, according to Nielsen Media Research. Dan Rather and ''CBS Evening News'' are a distant third.
 Mr. Jennings acknowledged that however much he is looking forward to squaring off against Mr. Williams, it will take time for the rivalry to rise to the level of the one he's been part of for more than two decades. ''Do I like beating Brokaw and Rather?'' he asked. ''Are you kidding?''
 Mr. Jennings emphasized that he was speaking much more in a journalistic sense than a business one, and cited, as an example, his status as the lone network news anchor inside the courtroom for Saddam Hussein's arraignment in Baghdad. 
 But if he and ''World News Tonight'' were to overtake NBC in the ratings -- particularly among the 25-to-54-year-old demographic coveted by advertisers -- the broadcast could increase its more than $120 million in annual advertising revenue by as much as $20 million, according to one network official.
 And it's not just the network that has a stake in the outcome.
 Those ABC affiliates in markets where Mr. Jennings has run second to Mr. Brokaw are anxiously anticipating the halo effect that could extend to their local news programming should he claim the top spot.
 Robert G. Bee, the director of sales at WTAE, the ABC affiliate in Pittsburgh, said he was confident that if ''World News Tonight'' moved from No.2 to No.1 in the 6:30 p.m. slot, the station's 6 p.m. local newscast would attract more viewers and pull in as much as a third more in advertising revenue. 
 Mr. Jennings's contract, which pays him an estimated $10 million annually, is scheduled to expire next year. Although David Westin, the president of ABC News, declined to reveal whether a contract extension had been discussed, he did say, ''I expect him to be the anchor of 'World News Tonight' for several years to come.'' 
 In the interview aboard the bus, Mr. Jennings declined to speculate about his future in a job he clearly still loves. And even if the end may not necessarily be near, Mr. Jennings has begun to express nostalgia for the way things used to be for himself, Mr. Brokaw and Mr. Rather.
 ''I cannot imagine that in the future Brian or anybody else in these chairs will have as good a time as the three of us have had in the last 20 years,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about the efforts at ABC News to increase the audience for Peter Jennings, the anchor of ''World News Tonight,'' and take advantage of the departure of Tom Brokaw, the anchor of the ''NBC Nightly News,'' referred incompletely to Mr. Jennings's preparation for his current post. While he became anchor of ''World News Tonight'' in 1983 after more than a decade as a foreign correspondent, he had earlier served as anchor for the ''ABC Evening News,'' from 1965 to 1968.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Jennings in Pittsburgh. (pg. 1)Chart: ''Opportune Moment''Next month, Tom Brokaw will leave ''NBC Nightly News,'' the top-rated evening newscast several years running, leaving other networks in a position to court any straying viewers.Graph tracks early-evening news viewers for ABC, NBC, and CBS since 1993.Figures are averages for full-year seasons ended in September.*2004-05 figure covers Sept. 20, 2004, through Oct. 22, 2004.(Source by Nielsen Media Research)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%) Television; Television; Television; Ratings and Rating Systems; Advertising and Marketing; Television

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (73%)

ORGANIZATION: Abc Inc; National Broadcasting Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (73%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (73%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jacques Steinberg; Peter Jennings; Tom Brokaw; Brian Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (78%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



743 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Colorado

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The traditional recipe for cooking up a swing state does not fit Colorado.
 There are no old urban manufacturing hubs stripped of blue-collar jobs as in Ohio or Wisconsin, no mix of immigrants and retirees as in Florida. Rural and suburban Republicans have securely dominated the party registration lists for decades, and unaffiliated voters tend to break to the right. 
 The state went for Bill Clinton in 1992 -- but only because Ross Perot did so well.
 Judging by the history and the numbers, political analysts say the odds have to favor President Bush on Tuesday despite the slipping of his lead. Several recent polls have Mr. Bush ahead by six percentage points, about half the margin it was a month ago.
 What Mr. Kerry must base his hopes on in Colorado are the cumulative differences between this year and all others before it. Many of those differences are cryptic.
 More than 262,000 new voters have registered since January, and Democrats estimate that about 75,000 of them are Hispanics, who make up a sixth of the state's population and who are expected to come out in record numbers for the Democratic candidate for the open United States Senate seat, Attorney General Ken Salazar.
 Mr. Salazar, Colorado's only Hispanic statewide office holder, has led in most polls over his Republican rival, the beer magnate Peter H. Coors, but whether Mr. Salazar's popularity can extend to help Mr. Kerry is uncertain, analysts say.
 As in most states, the war in Iraq and the economy preoccupy voters, but there are significant differences between Colorado and some other swing states on those points.
 First, the military presence here is enormous, in installations like Fort Carson, the United States Air Force Academy and Norad, the North American Aerospace Defense Command. And the Vietnam generation -- however that cuts in this election -- is strongly represented. A higher proportion of Colorado's military veterans served during the Vietnam War than any state's except Alaska, according to the Census Bureau.
 The economy, which boomed in the 1990's during the dot-com bubble, has sputtered for years. In the first half of this year, Colorado had the fastest rate of increase in consumer bankruptcies in the nation, according to Lundquist Consulting Inc., which tracks bankruptcy trends. 
 If Mr. Kerry does win here, it will not be a result of a final media blitz. His campaign cut much of its television advertising, at least in the Denver market, on Monday. But the Bush campaign is still pushing hard, station managers said. Mr. Bush has visited the state twice in just the last month, and Mr. Kerry has come to Colorado six times during the campaign. KIRK JOHNSON


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (76%); VETERANS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CENSUS (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); KEN SALAZAR (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



744 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Iowa

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The state that propelled Senator John Kerry's presidential bid with a stunning victory in the caucuses last winter has all but lost its famed composure in recent days, rattled by the intensity with which Mr. Kerry and President Bush are now trying to win its seven electoral votes.
 On Friday, under armed guard and police escort with flashing lights, the election auditor of Linn County, Linda Langenberg, moved 30,000 ballots already completed by early voters to the Cedar Rapids police headquarters for safekeeping until they are counted on Election Day. ''Everyone is so worried,'' she explained. ''We're trying to do everything we can to protect their ballots.'' 
 Iowa has backed Democrats for president since 1988, but former Vice President Al Gore won the state by just 4,000 votes in 2000 and recent polls show the presidential contest here virtually deadlocked. 
 The narrow contest has brought the state numerous last-minute visits by both major candidates and their high-profile supporters: former New York mayors Rudolph W. Giuliani and Edward I. Koch for Mr. Bush; the rock star Jon Bon Jovi for Mr. Kerry.
 With their caucuses, Iowans are used to such national attention and take their voting seriously. In a measure of their devotion to voting, Ordinance 49.105 lets election officials have unruly voters arrested -- but only after they get a chance to cast their ballots.
 Iowa is a state with lots of small towns that are shrinking and cities that are maintaining their own but are being outdistanced by robust suburban areas with white-collar jobs like the insurance industry. There are extremely liberal enclaves in Iowa City and Ames. But Iowa also has a very strong fundamentalist Christian community that became very political in the 1980's.
 ''When you add it all up, the race is now 49 to 49 because these people, like the rest of the country, are in two pretty evenly divided political camps,'' said Steffen W. Schmidt, a professor of political science at Iowa State University.
 Republican officials say they think they can hand Iowa to Mr. Bush through the state's farmers, and they are focusing on motivating rural voters. Democrats and their allied political advocacy groups are wooing rural residents as well, convinced that the economy and security will prompt them to vote for Mr. Kerry. 
 The biggest legal controversy so far -- over whether to count the votes of people who go to the wrong precinct -- was resolved Thursday with a ruling by the secretary of state that their votes will not be counted if the election is not close. 
 While some officials are predicting a record turnout of 1.4 million voters, a razor-thin finish remains a distinct possibility. As the Iowa pollster Ann Selzer observed, ''If you just look at how the campaigns are treating Iowa, our measly little seven electoral votes will matter and everything will be under scrutiny.'' MICHAEL MOSS


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); MAYORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); INSURANCE (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); SUBURBS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JON BON JOVI (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



745 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Ohio

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Four years ago, Ohio was not in play in the presidential sweepstakes, seeming so solidly Republican that Vice President Al Gore's campaign pulled up stakes weeks before Election Day.
 This year, it matters. On Tuesday, millions of Ohioans will go to the polls convinced their votes could decide the entire race. And they might be right. 
 The state and its 20 electoral votes are nothing short of crucial for both President Bush and Senator John Kerry, and polls show the race to be airtight. For Mr. Bush, no Republican has ever won a presidential election without carrying Ohio. For Mr. Kerry, Ohio may represent the best chance to take a major state away from Mr. Bush's 2000 victory column, analysts say. 
 The reason comes down to simple economics: Ohio, where Republicans dominate every branch of state government, is flirting with a Democratic candidate because the state has been ravaged by job losses -- more than 200,000 since Mr. Bush took office. Without those layoffs, strategists in both major parties agree, Mr. Bush would probably be comfortably ahead. 
 Results of most polls are within the margin of error, and all sides agree the race is too close to call -- close enough that the two parties have marshaled battalions of lawyers both to watch for Election Day fraud or intimidation and to prepare post-election litigation in case the margin is razor-thin. (Ohio law requires an automatic recount if the margin is less than 0.25 percent). 
 Already, the two parties have been tying each other up in legal knots. The Republicans have challenged 35,000 new registrations, but Democrats succeeded in having a federal judge block most of the challenges.
 The Republicans also plan to have more than 3,600 people ready to challenge voters inside polling places on Election Day. Democrats in two counties have asked federal judges to prohibit those challenges, and rulings are expected by Monday. 
 With the election so close and so much at stake, the candidates have been crisscrossing the state in recent weeks. Mr. Kerry was in Ohio seven times this month, with plans to close his campaign with a rally in Cleveland on Monday. Mr. Bush has been here five times, with plans to spend Sunday and Monday in Cincinnati. 
 Both parties have also mounted what they contend are their largest get-out-the-vote operations in their histories here. For Republicans, that has meant mustering 80,000 volunteers, nearly four times what they had in 2000. Their focus will be on Republican strongholds in the rural west, around Cincinnati and in the Columbus suburbs. 
 Democrats and allied groups like Americans Coming Together say they have more than 100,000 volunteers working to turn out voters in the cities and throughout the industrial northeast. JAMES DAO


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sign of the times: a scarecrow on a front lawn in Chagrin Falls, Ohio. (Photo by Amy Sancetta/Associated Press)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JUDGES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); LITIGATION (70%); LAWYERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



746 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CONTEXT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Tape Delivers Political Jolt To Campaigns in Final Days

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The latest surprise of this campaign arrived less than 100 hours before Election Day, in the form of Osama bin Laden's videotaped message to America. Even Democrats described it as somewhat welcome news for President Bush after a difficult stretch for the White House.
 Yes, as some Democrats said, voters were reminded that Mr. bin Laden was healthy and alive, three years after Mr. Bush declared he wanted him ''dead or alive,'' and in the midst of a campaign in which Mr. Kerry had systematically assailed Mr. Bush as allowing his Iraq war to distract from the more lethal threat of Mr. bin Laden.
 But there were signs of concern in Mr. Kerry's circles as this campaign took yet another sharp turn in response to events far from Washington. While the candidate's first reaction to the tape was to repeat his standing criticism that Mr. Bush had allowed Mr. bin Laden to escape in the hills of Tora Bora, Kerry aides have said they would just as soon change the topic. 
 But on Saturday, while avoiding the mention of the tape itself, Mr. Kerry found himself battling with the president about the best way to protect America against terrorism. 
 The attempt by the Kerry campaign to play down the topic came as no surprise. 
 The videotape -- in which Mr. bin Laden taunts the president and makes vaguely threatening remarks about the nation's security -- could well reinforce what has been the defining rationale of Mr. Bush's re-election candidacy since the morning that planes slammed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon: that the nation is at war, and that this Republican president can best protect it.
 ''The more these images are out there now, the more it helps Bush,'' said Joe Trippi, who was the campaign manager for Howard Dean, one of Mr. Kerry's rivals for the Democratic nomination.
 ''Every American wants to keep this fight out of the country, and that has been the hallmark of the Bush campaign.''
 While it seems inevitable that Mr. bin Laden will dominate much of the closing act of this campaign, it is still an open question just how many votes this could sway here in Florida or in the other eight swing states where the campaign is being played out in these final hours. 
 For one thing, the tape was released late on a Friday afternoon, a time when experienced American politicians typically try to sneak out news that they do not want to gain much notice (a practice that Mr. bin Laden is presumably unaware of). By now, undecided voters are as scarce as Mr. bin Laden once was: on this late October weekend, the contest is less about swaying undecided voters than about getting supporters to the polls.
 And Mr. Bush is certainly vulnerable on this issue, should Mr. Kerry try to turn the tables back on his rival.
 ''This is going to be the last nail in George Bush's campaign,'' said Jim Jordan, a Democratic strategist working for America Coming Together, a group working to unseat Mr. Bush. ''Bin Laden on the loose is arguably Bush's greatest failure as commander in chief.''
 That said, here in a state at the heart of the presidential battle, the images of Mr. bin Laden speaking ominously into a camera blended seamlessly with Republican advertisements that include the smoldering remains of the World Trade Center, or Mr. Bush comforting the daughter of a Sept. 11 victim.
 In this final weekend of a long contest, the campaign appeared to have turned full circle to the moment that has defined Mr. Bush's presidency and shaped his re-election campaign.
 Richard N. Bond, a former Republican national chairman, said the tape was a ''reminder for all Americans that America is under attack -- and who can be the best commander in chief in the war on terror is the central issue of this campaign.''
 Mr. bin Laden may have managed to do what the White House had not been able to accomplish: turn the page on what had been a troubling run of news for Mr. Bush, ranging from reports of missing explosives from an unsecured warehouse in Iraq to more sluggish economic news. 
 These events provided fuel for a steady barrage of attacks by Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, this week and have -- or had -- increasingly left Mr. Bush on the defensive.
 That is no small thing. At this point in a campaign, command of the political agenda is critical, and until 4 p.m. on Friday, Mr. Kerry held that. Going into this weekend, confidence in Democratic circles, if cautious, was as palpable as the anxiety in Republican circles.
 Mr. Bush, who has never been shy about using the attacks of Sept. 11 to his political advantage, moved quickly to incorporate the videotape into his re-election campaign. On Friday night, in Ohio, he called Mr. Kerry ''shameful'' for saying that he had let Mr. bin Laden escape in the mountains, an argument Mr. Kerry has in fact been making for two years. Mr. Kerry's advisers reacted with sharp agitation to the Bush charge. 
 A senior aide, Joe Lockhart, denounced Mr. Bush as having politicized the 9/11 tragedy.
 Another senior Kerry aide, Mike McCurry, made it clear in an interview that Mr. Kerry had no intention of using these last hours of his campaign to talk about Mr. bin Laden.
 ''I think there's going to be a real reaction if news organizations try to make this the only story for the last few days,'' he said. ''There's a lot at stake in this election. There's going to be a lot of visible anger at the American media if this is the story for the whole weekend.''
 But Mr. Bush has never made any secret about what he wanted this campaign to be about. His senior political adviser, Karl Rove, flatly announced that security would be a central theme of the 2002 midterm elections at a meeting of the Republican National Committee just four months after the attacks.
 Terrorism is one of very few issues on which the president has a clear advantage over Mr. Kerry. And after enduring a week of bad news, Mr. Bush's aides could barely restrain their enthusiasm at what they hoped would be the coda of this campaign -- as opposed to, say, the images of a scavenged weapons depot in Iraq.
 ''When people look at that guy, they understand that we are at war,'' said Mr. Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman, referring to Mr. bin Laden. ''And they want to make sure that their commander in chief does.''
 More than any campaign in 20 years, this one has repeatedly been buffeted by events beyond the control of either candidate. But nothing has shaped it more than Mr. bin Laden and the attacks he orchestrated three Septembers ago. It has presented what has always been the central challenge for the Democrats: Could they compete with Mr. Bush on national security?
 With all his ''bring it on'' and Vietnam talk, Mr. Kerry may have thought he had vaulted that hurdle. Mr. bin Laden's weekend re-emergence will put that to a final test. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Recordings (Video); Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Adam Nagourney; Osama Bin Laden; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004



747 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY -- CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT: WASHINGTON; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Is Anti-Terrorist Anti-Tourist?

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WITH the presidential elections imminent and continuing warnings of possible terrorist attacks, barricades and checkpoints have proliferated in the nation's capital in recent months. 
 Since August, when the Bush administration warned that financial institutions here were at high risk for attacks, federal officials have closed streets near the World Bank and the Capitol; streets by the White House and State Department have also been closed out of security concerns.
 This month, Senator Mark Dayton, Democrat of Minnesota, cited concerns about terrorist attacks when he decided to close his office here and to warn his constituents against visiting Capitol Hill. Washington's police chief, Charles Ramsey, says residents and visitors should expect a heightened police presence on Election Day. 
 Tourism officials say that none of the city's monuments and museums are closed because of the terrorist threats -- although security checks at cultural institutions have sometimes led to long lines. The officials say most visitors are coping well with the inconveniences of street closings and construction projects, including those around the White House and the Capitol. But city officials fear that the talk of looming threats and the unsightly concrete barricades manned by federal officers around the Capitol are making this place feel like Fortress Washington. 
 About 17.2 million travelers visited the city last year, spending more than $4 billion, according to the Washington DC Convention and Tourism Corporation, the nonprofit group that markets this city to visitors. So far, there is little to suggest that the terrorist alerts have touched off a downturn in tourism. In fact, the opposite seems true: in September, the city's hotel occupancy rate was about 77 percent compared with 74 percent in September of 2003, the convention group said.
 But city planning officials believe that many visitors had booked their vacations before the August terrorist alert and before Mr. Dayton's announcement, and they fear that the increased safety measures may deter future visitors.
 Federal officials who have ordered the heightened security emphasize that the security measures are essential. City officials describe the security measures as disruptive. ''This is like building a moat around the castle,'' Dan Tangherlini, the city's director of transportation, said of the street closures here. ''It's the highest level of security we've seen, at least on an ongoing basis, around the Capitol. We're worried that people will get the image of a city that's closed down.''
 Officials from the United States Capitol Police, the federal agency that has deployed officers and canine units to 14 checkpoints in the city, say that the high levels of security may remain in place through the inauguration in January.
 Sgt. Contricia Sellers-Ford, a spokeswoman for the Capitol Police, acknowledged that there haven't been any specific threats to Capitol Hill. But she said that her agency believed that it was important to take extra steps to protect it. 
 ''Since it is a small city, we felt that we needed to step up our security for visitors and members of Congress,'' she said. 
 She said that residents and visitors to Capitol Hill had experienced traffic congestion as officers at checkpoints continue to scrutinize cars and stop and inspect larger vehicles, including sport utility vehicles and trucks as well as cars that seem suspicious. She urged people to avoid driving through the area if possible. 
 ''We get occasional complaints, and that's to be expected,'' Sergeant Sellers-Ford said. ''We do have periods that are high-traffic. But everyone for the most part seems to be taking alternate routes. Traffic has been moving.''
 Some city officials have accused Senator Dayton of overreacting. Eleanor Holmes Norton, the delegate to Congress from the District of Columbia, said Mr. Dayton was sending the wrong message: ''We have an obligation to avoid creating an atmosphere of fear among residents and visitors, causing needless harm to the District's economy and anxiety among the American people.'' 
 But in a statement Mr. Dayton said it would be ''irresponsible and immoral'' to leave his staff here while he was in Minnesota during the Congressional recess or to encourage constituents to visit here.
 The safety precautions come as the number of domestic visitors has been gradually increasing. In 2003, the city had 16.4 million visitors, up 3.2 percent over 2002, according to the Travel Industry Association of America trade group.
 Victoria Isley, a spokeswoman for the city tourism office, said she believed that Americans had learned to expect higher levels of security: ''While visitors may have to cross the street to get to a location, most seem to be understanding.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A tourist trolley is stopped and searched by Capitol Police. (Photo by Carol T. Powers/ The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%) Terrorism; Travel and Vacations; Presidential Election of 2004; Security and Warning Systems

PERSON: MARK DAYTON (55%) Rachel L Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

 
