

801 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Apathy, Again, Is Expected At the Polls

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
More people went to the ballpark over the weekend to watch the Yankees play the Red Sox than are likely to elect New York's next chief money man on Tuesday. This is not said in praise of baseball fans.
 The indifference of New York voters, notably registered Democrats, may be the most striking development of this political season. It isn't as if times are great and so why should anyone care who becomes the new city comptroller. 
There is real money on the table. The comptroller has to make sure that the $60 billion municipal budget is truly balanced and that the roughly $80 billion in pension funds for city workers are well-protected. Blunders are never good in this job. But in this recession, the acceptable margin for error is zero.
 There are also significant differences between the two city councilmen in the Democratic primary runoff being held on Tuesday. In particular, they have different approaches to reining in pension costs, which threaten to blow deep holes in the city budget far into the future.
 Whoever wins, be it David Yassky or John C. Liu, he is as assured of victory in November as the Yankees are of finishing first in their division. A great deal is thus riding on this runoff.
 But the panjandrums of political prognostication -- an alliterative nod to the late William Safire -- say the turnout on Tuesday will be abysmal, perhaps half of what it was for the original Democratic primary held two weeks ago. And the turnout for that one was plumb awful, about 11 percent.
 It means that the Democrats will be lucky if 170,000 people bother to vote. Polls show that the candidates are more or less evenly matched, meaning the winner may not get much more than 85,000 votes. That is not only an appreciably smaller number than the weekend attendance at Yankee Stadium but it is also equivalent to barely 1 percent of the city's population. It hardly amounts to a sweeping mandate for the winner -- or signals a healthy level of voter engagement.
 A similar torpor blankets the Democratic runoff for public advocate between City Councilman Bill de Blasio and Mark Green, who used to have the job and wants it back. Granted, some New Yorkers would shed no tears if not a single voter showed up for this race. Questions have been raised about whether the position should even exist.
 Without getting into that debate, it is worth remembering that a critical function of the public advocate is to be a potential mayor-in-waiting.
 Let's say Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wins re-election and then something happens to him -- like a massive attack of boredom, which impels him to decide one day while lolling around his Bermuda home that he would rather stay there for good and work on his golf game. In that event, the public advocate would become mayor, at least until a special election is arranged a couple of months later.
 IF your gut reaction to this is to ask what's the big deal, just remember how Ashley Dupre helped make David A. Paterson a surprise governor and the star in one of the most engrossing, if depressing, political dramas of recent vintage.
 Speaking of the governor, he appeared Sunday on ''Meet the Press'' sporting his new clean-shaven look and sounding defiant. No White House operatives are going to shove him out of the race for governor next year, no sir. So he said.
 If nothing else, Mr. Paterson had enough confidence to travel to Washington for the television interview. Having received a final judicial blessing for his appointed lieutenant governor, Richard Ravitch, he could leave New York State feeling secure that the reins back home were in the hands of a grown-up. No more having to worry that a bunch of state senators might go loony tunes again and try to seize power.
 There is no comparable succession issue with the city comptroller. But bear in mind that for nearly half a century every man who has held that position went on to run for mayor. Only one succeeded, Abraham D. Beame in 1973. Many of you are old enough to recall how brilliantly that turned out. (The one woman elected comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman in 1989, didn't run for mayor, but she probably thought about it.)
 So even if it seems a safe bet that most New Yorkers would rather be able to brag about having watched the Yankees clobber the Red Sox than about having voted, it matters who wins on Tuesday. A lot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); MAYORS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); BASEBALL (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



802 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: City Poverty Rate Dipped in 2008, New Census Data Show, but Regional Picture Is Mixed

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
In a departure from the national picture, family income rose slightly in New York City in 2008 from 2007, and the proportion of poor people was virtually unchanged, according to census figures released Tuesday. 
 Still, the city and surrounding region had its share of grim news: The Bronx remained the country's poorest urban county; the income gap in Manhattan was still higher than in any other county; and the poverty rate in Connecticut rose faster than in any other state.
 And the relatively positive part of the local economic picture was tempered by the fact that the latest census figures from the rolling American Community Survey captured only the start of the recession. 
 In New York City, the poverty rate in 2008 was 18.2 percent -- the lowest this decade -- compared with 18.5 percent in 2007. Median household income was unchanged, at $51,116, but median family income rose to $56,552 from $54,846. 
 Those figures masked vast disparities, though, based on race, ethnicity and geography.
 In the Bronx, the median household income was $35,033, and nearly 28 percent of the borough's residents -- and 47 percent of its households headed by women with children -- were living in poverty. 
 Citywide, the poverty rate for racial and ethnic groups stayed relatively unchanged in 2008 compared with the previous year: 11 percent for non-Hispanic whites, 17 percent for Asians, 21 percent for blacks and 26 percent for Hispanics. 
 The proportion of people receiving food stamps increased in New York State by about a percentage point, to 10.6 percent. 
 In Connecticut, the poverty rate climbed to 24.2 percent from 21.3 percent. In largely suburban Fairfield County, it jumped to 20 percent from 15 percent. 
 Until recently, New York City trailed the national economic downturn, but the city's unemployment rate is now higher than the national average, which makes finding jobs more difficult. 
 ''I suspect we'll see some worsening of poverty statistics, too,'' said Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative group.
 ''However,'' Mr. Malanga added, ''I also think we should credit the Bloomberg administration for a continuing strong emphasis on welfare to work, which I think continues getting people back into the work force and out of poverty.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who declared that reducing poverty would be a priority of his second term, commissioned experts to devise a more accurate measure of poverty. Under that measure, the rate was 23 percent in 2006, compared with the official poverty measure that year of 19 percent. The city's formula has not been updated.
 ''Since the existing poverty measure doesn't consider regional cost-of-living variations on the expense side, or government aid to households on the income side, it doesn't tell the whole story and doesn't help us in our fight,'' said Linda I. Gibbs, the deputy mayor for health and human services. 
 Mark K. Levitan, the director of poverty research for the city's Center for Economic Opportunity, said the city's anti-poverty efforts were bearing fruit. Mr. Levitan pointed to a declining poverty rate among blacks and Hispanics from 2006 and 2008.
 He also said that programs that encouraged people to apply for food stamps or tax credits that provided cash assistance were not reflected in the government's official poverty rate.
 But Joel Berg, executive director of the Coalition Against Hunger, said that a growing number of poor homeless people were not counted, and he predicted that the overall poverty rate would rise next year. Besides, he said, ''I don't think a million and a half people in poverty is a great victory.''
 David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society, which serves as an advocate for low-income New Yorkers, said his research found that ''people are having increased hardship, and it's Latinos who are taking the brunt, because they tend to cluster in manufacturing and construction.''
 An analysis by Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College, found that the share of income in Manhattan going to the wealthiest declined slightly in 2008, signaling an end to the boom. 
 The median income among those in the top 5 percent was $857,000, and that group collected nearly twice the total income of those in the bottom 60 percent. The top 20 percent made about 42 times as much as the bottom 20 percent. Income disparities were higher in New York than in any other state.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Tuesday about the latest census figures on family income and poverty in the New York region misstated the 2007 and 2008 poverty rates for Connecticut and one of its largely suburban counties, Fairfield. The statewide rate was 9.3 percent in 2008, up from 7.9 percent in 2007 -- not 24.2 percent and 21.3 percent. The Fairfield County rate was 8.5 percent in 2008, up from 6.6 percent in 2007 -- not 20 percent and 15 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (92%); CENSUS (92%); POVERTY RATES (92%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ETHNICITY (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); CHILDREN (73%); MAYORS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); CONSERVATISM (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



803 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Head Expects Dollar's Role to Diminish

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The president of the World Bank said on Monday that America's days as an unchallenged economic superpower might be numbered and that the dollar was likely to lose its favored position as the euro and the Chinese renminbi assume bigger roles. 
 ''The United States would be mistaken to take for granted the dollar's place as the world's predominant reserve currency,'' the World Bank president, Robert B. Zoellick, said in a speech at the School for Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins. ''Looking forward, there will increasingly be other options to the dollar.''
 Mr. Zoellick, who previously served as the United States trade representative and as deputy secretary of state under President George W. Bush, said that the euro provided a ''respectable alternative'' for financing international transactions and that there was ''every reason to believe that the euro's acceptability could grow.'' 
 In the next 10 to 20 years, he said, the dollar will face growing competition from China's currency, the renminbi. Though Chinese leaders have minimized their currency's use in international transactions, largely so they could keep greater control over exchange rates, Mr. Zoellick said the renminbi would ''evolve into a force in financial markets.''
 The World Bank, which is financed by governments around the globe and lends money primarily to poor countries, has no say over the economic policies of large nations or over currency matters.
 But Mr. Zoellick's comments were unusual, in part because he seemed intent on being provocative. He argued that the United States and a handful of other rich nations could no longer dominate the world economy and suggested that America was losing its clout. He also took issue with a central piece of the Obama administration's proposal regarding the country's financial regulatory system.
 ''The greenback's fortunes will depend heavily on U.S. choices,'' Mr. Zoellick said. ''Will the United States resolve its debt problems without a resort to inflation? Can America establish long-term discipline over spending and its budget deficit?''
 Mr. Zoellick criticized President Obama's plan to put the Federal Reserve in charge of reducing ''systemic risk'' and to regulate institutions considered too big to fail. Saying that Congress had become uneasy about the Fed's exercise of emergency powers to bail out financial institutions and prop up credit markets, Mr. Zoellick argued that the Treasury rather than the Fed should get more power because the Treasury was more accountable to Congress. 
 ''In the United States, it will be difficult to vest the independent and powerful technocrats at the Federal Reserve with more authority,'' Mr. Zoellick said, adding that ''the Treasury is an executive department, and therefore Congress and the public can more directly oversee how it uses any added authority.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Zoellick said the Treasury should get more power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EURO (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



804 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: How to Press the Advantage With Iran

BYLINE: By FLYNT LEVERETT and HILLARY MANN LEVERETT. 
Flynt Leverett is the director of the Iran project at the New America Foundation and a professor of international affairs at Pennsylvania State University. Hillary Mann Leverett is the president of a political risk consultancy. Both are former National Security Council staff members.

 BODY:
TEHRAN'S disclosure that it is building a second uranium enrichment plant near the holy city of Qum has derailed the Obama administration's already faltering efforts to engage with Iran. The United States will now cling even more tightly to the futile hope that international pressure and domestic instability will induce major changes in Iranian decision-making. 
 Indeed, the meeting on Thursday in Geneva of the United Nations Security Council's five permanent members and Germany with Iran (the ''five plus one'' talks) will not be an occasion for strategic discussion but for delivering an ultimatum: Iran will have to agree to pre-emptive limitations on its nuclear program or face what Secretary of State Hillary Clinton calls ''crippling'' sanctions. 
 However, based on conversations we've had in recent days with senior Iranian officials -- including President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad -- we believe it is highly unlikely Iran will accept this ultimatum. It is also unlikely that Russia and China will support sanctions that come anywhere near crippling Iran. After this all-too-predictable scenario has played out, the Obama administration will be left, as a consequence of its own weakness and vacillation, with extremely poor choices for dealing with Iran. 
 Because President Obama assembled a national security team that, for the most part, did not share his early vision for American-Iranian rapprochement, his administration never built a strong public case for engagement. The prospect of engagement is still treated largely as a channel for ''rewarding'' positive Iranian actions and ''punishing'' problematic behavior -- precisely what Mr. Obama, as a presidential candidate, criticized so eloquently about President George W. Bush's approach. 
 At the United Nations General Assembly last week, President Obama used language reminiscent of Mr. Bush's ''axis of evil'' to identify Iran and North Korea as the main threats to international peace and vowed to hold them ''accountable.'' In Geneva, we can expect the United States to demand that Iran not only accept ''concrete'' limitations on further nuclear development but also demonstrate the peaceful nature of its nuclear program to avoid severe sanctions. 
 This approach prompted Mr. Ahmadinejad, during a meeting last week, to declare that Iran does not believe Americans are ''serious'' about strategic cooperation. He argued that, when Iran had previously agreed to limit its nuclear development -- as when it suspended uranium enrichment from 2003 to 2005 -- Western powers offered nothing in return, and instead sought to ''restrict our rights even further.''
 This was more than a diplomatic failure by the West -- it was also a serious blow to the credibility of reform-minded politicians in Iran. Is it a surprise, then, that no candidate in Iran's recent presidential election supported renewed unilateral restrictions on its nuclear program? Mr. Ahmadinejad has now reiterated that it should be possible to cooperate with Washington to resolve the nuclear issue, but only in the context of a broader strategic understanding -- something the Obama administration has not accepted. 
 Absent some agreement with Washington on its long-term goals, Iran's national security strategy will continue emphasizing ''asymmetric'' defense against perceived American encirclement. Over several years, officials in both the reformist government of Mohammad Khatami and the conservative Ahmadinejad administration have told us that this defensive strategy includes cultivating ties to political forces and militias in other states in the region, developing Iran's missile capacity (as underscored by this weekend's tests of medium-range missiles), and pushing the limits of Tehran's nonproliferation obligations to the point where it would be seen as having the ability and ingredients to make fission weapons. It seems hardly a coincidence that Iran is accused of having started the Qum lab in 2005 -- precisely when Tehran had concluded that suspending enrichment had failed to diminish American hostility. 
 American officials tend to play down Iranian concerns about American intentions, citing public messages from President Obama to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, as proof of the administration's diplomatic seriousness. But Tehran saw these messages as attempts to circumvent Iran's president -- another iteration, in a pattern dating from Ronald Reagan's Iran-Contra scandal, of American administrations trying to create channels to Iranian ''moderates'' rather than dealing with the Islamic Republic as a system. President Ahmadinejad underscored this point to us by noting that Mr. Obama never responded to his congratulatory letter after the 2008 United States election -- which, he emphasized, was ''unprecedented'' and ''not easy to get done'' in Iran. 
 The Obama administration's lack of diplomatic seriousness goes beyond clumsy tactics; it reflects an inadequate understanding of the strategic necessity of constructive American-Iranian relations. If an American president believed that such a relationship was profoundly in our national interests -- as President Richard Nixon judged a diplomatic opening to China -- he would demonstrate acceptance of the Islamic Republic, even as problematic Iranian behavior continued in the near term. 
 After taking office in 1969, Nixon directed the C.I.A. to stop covert operations in Tibet and ordered the Navy to stop its regular patrols of the Taiwan Strait even while China was supplying weapons to kill American soldiers in Vietnam. President Obama has had several opportunities to send analogous signals to Tehran -- such as ending Bush-era covert programs against Iran -- but has punted. 
 Unfortunately, the Obama administration was enticed by the prospect of regime-toppling instability in the aftermath of Iran's presidential election this summer. But compared to past upheavals in the Islamic Republic's 30-year history -- the forced exile of a president, the assassination of another, the eight-year war with Iraq and the precipitous replacement of Ayatollah Khomeini's first designated successor, Ayatollah Hussein Ali Montazeri, with Ayatollah Khamenei -- the controversy over this year's election was hardly a cataclysmic event. 
 Furthermore -- and notwithstanding the comment by President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia that sanctions are ''sometimes inevitable'' -- the Obama administration's focus on mustering support for effective economic penalties is delusional. For three years, Moscow has given just enough on sanctions to keep the nuclear issue before the Security Council, because Russian officials calculate that is the best way to constrain unilateral American action. But Russia has consistently watered down any sanctions actually authorized. Senior Russian diplomats continue to say that Moscow has not agreed to support any specific additional measures. Moscow may well acquiesce to a marginal expansion of existing sanctions, but it will not accept substantial costs to its own economic and strategic interests by supporting significantly tougher steps. 
 China may also agree to a marginal expansion of existing sanctions, but will not endorse measures that hurt important Chinese interests. An Obama administration proposal that Saudi Arabia ''replace'' the oil China now imports from Iran completely misreads Beijing's energy security calculus.
 China is not only continuing to buy large amounts of Iranian oil, Chinese energy companies are also now developing substantial investment positions there -- justifiably confident that Washington will not sanction Chinese firms over energy investments in Iran. Chinese military officials are particularly focused on the potential for Iranian hydrocarbons to come to China through pipelines running across Central Asia, rather than through seaborne routes vulnerable to American naval interdiction. Iran is the only Persian Gulf country that can offer China such diversification of supply sources and transit routes. 
 The Obama administration may hope that even an ineffective quest for ''crippling'' sanctions will hold the line against those in Washington and elsewhere advocating a military strike on Iran's weapons program. That is sadly reminiscent of our experiences at the State Department and the National Security Council in the Bush administration, when officials who opposed the Iraq war championed ''smart sanctions'' and tighter containment of Saddam Hussein's regime as the alternative course. Such calls did nothing to change Mr. Hussein's calculations, and were overwhelmed by the exaggerated allegations of Iraq's renewed efforts to build nuclear weapons. 
 INSTEAD of pushing the falsehood that sanctions will give America leverage in Iranian decision-making -- a strategy that will end either in frustration or war -- the administration should seek a strategic realignment with Iran as thoroughgoing as that effected by Nixon with China. This would require Washington to take steps, up front, to assure Tehran that rapprochement would serve Iran's strategic needs. 
 On that basis, America and Iran would forge a comprehensive framework for security as well as economic cooperation -- something that Washington has never allowed the five-plus-one group to propose. Within that framework, the international community would work with Iran to develop its civil nuclear program, including fuel cycle activities on Iranian soil, in a transparent manner rather than demanding that Tehran prove a negative -- that it's not developing weapons. A cooperative approach would not demonize Iran for political relationships with Hamas and Hezbollah, but would elicit Tehran's commitment to work toward peaceful resolutions of regional conflicts. 
 Some may say that this is too high a price to pay for improved relations with Iran. But the price is high only for those who attach value to failed policies that have damaged American interests in the Middle East and made our allies there less secure. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN (90%); SWITZERLAND (90%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



805 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Peering At The Future

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Charlotte, N.C. 

 BODY:
 A whoop went up in the classroom and the teenagers became giddy when they realized that the man and woman being escorted to the front of the room were Bill and Melinda Gates.
 ''Ohmigod!'' shrieked one girl, her eyes and mouth wide with astonishment.
 ''Are you the real Bill Gates?'' asked another. 
 The Gateses were in the Algebra 1 class at West Charlotte High School (a venerable, mostly black institution that over the decades has reached academic highs and touched ignominious lows) to learn, not teach. They have been traveling the country trying to see for themselves what really works and what has gone haywire in public education in the United States.
 Visiting classrooms is like peering into the nation's future. Right now the view is somewhat frightening. American kids drop out of high school at an average of one every 26 seconds. Only about a third of those who graduate are prepared to move on to a four-year college. And in the savage economic downturn that has gripped the U.S. for the better part of the past two years, retrenchment in public schools and colleges is widespread. 
 For a country that once led the world in educating its citizens, we are now moving decidedly in the wrong direction. As Mr. Gates points out: ''Our performance at every level -- primary and secondary school achievement, high school graduation, college entry, college completion -- is dropping against the rest of the world.'' 
 This has consequences. As Melinda Gates notes: ''America's long history of upward mobility is in danger.'' 
 The Gateses are co-chairs of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the world's largest philanthropic organization. They are investing billions of dollars and much of their considerable energy in an effort to spark not just change but a transformation in the way American youngsters are educated. 
 It's an overwhelming challenge, and not all of their early efforts have borne fruit. Educating children in the U.S. means engaging issues like poverty and homelessness, racial and ethnic transformations and entrenched, outdated ways of doing things. But the Gateses seem determined to master this issue and do what they can to help reverse the current dismal trends.
 As they met over two days with students, teachers, administrators and community college executives in Charlotte and Raleigh-Durham, the intensity of their focus and concentration was striking. 
 ''You can read about all of this stuff,'' Bill Gates told me, ''but it's important to come out and see it, to spend time talking with the people involved, and to visit the bad schools as well as the good schools if you really want to understand and make a difference.'' 
 The issues can be maddeningly complex. There are school districts in which much of the population is aging and predominantly white and the taxpayers are less than enthusiastic about supporting a school population that is largely poor and black or Hispanic. There are schools trying desperately to raise their test scores, an important measure of accountability, while at the same time trying to keep poor and struggling youngsters from dropping out -- the very youngsters who are often a drag on overall test scores.
 But the many challenges will have to be met and overcome if the U.S. is to maintain a successful society. The American work force is becoming increasingly black and Hispanic, and a two-year or four-year college credential has become a prerequisite to a middle-class standard of living. With that in mind, it's not difficult to see how disastrous it is to have nearly 50 percent of minority kids dropping out of school before they even get a high school diploma.
 ''It is so important,'' said Melinda Gates, ''to get all of the children educated.''
 The Gateses are committed, but they need so many more to follow their lead. 
 I'm not sure how or why so many Americans over the past few decades took their eyes off the critical importance of education as the pathway to personal and societal success. In their book, ''The Race Between Education and Technology,'' the Harvard economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz pointed out that educational attainment in the U.S. ''was exceptionally rapid and continuous for the first three-quarters of the 20th century.'' And then, foolishly, we applied the brakes and advancement ''slowed considerably for young adults beginning in the 1970s and for the overall labor force by the early 1980s.''
 If you don't think we're paying a price for this, just look around.
 A student in the Algebra 1 class at West Charlotte High summed up the matter cogently when she said to the Gateses, in a voice that was not the least amused: ''People seem to think it's cool to be stupid. But it's not.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (71%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); CHARITIES (68%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (89%); MELINDA GATES (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



806 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Too Small to Bail Has a Nice Ring to It

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
Too Small to Bail
 Has a Nice Ring
 Would the financial system have gotten into the mess it did if all the banks in the United States operated like small lenders? President Obama doesn't seem to think so. 
 He even recognized ''responsible lenders, including community banks, doing the right thing'' in his Lehman Brothers anniversary speech. Leaders of big banks don't agree, of course. But the numbers, at least for the moment, bear out the president's thinking on the subject. 
 The economic crisis is still taking its toll on the banking industry. So it is too early to say for certain that small banks performed better than big banks. 
 But a glance at some preliminary data for the first half of the year, culled for Breakingviews.com by SNL Financial, shows smaller banks beating their larger competitors on nearly every measure important to shareholders, customers and policy makers.
 As legislators consider ways to prevent another near collapse of the global financial system, they could do worse than analyze the performance divide between America's big and small commercial banks. 
 Shareholder hot buttons include returns on assets and equity. In the second quarter, American banks with assets of more than $5 billion -- of which there are about 150, ranging from Ally Bank (formerly GMAC Bank) to Zions Bank of Salt Lake City -- reported the profitability of their loans, expressed as a median return on average equity, at 3.15 percent. The return on equity of small banks was significantly higher, at 5.31 percent, in the second quarter.
 This appears to show that the 7,300 banks that reported assets of less than $5 billion at the end of the first quarter, from 1st Bank Yuma of Arizona to Zavala County Bank in Crystal City, Tex., make loans with a better trade-off between risk and return than large banks do.
 Net charge-offs, the debts a bank decides are uncollectible, stood at 0.20 percent of all loans for small banks. Big banks, by contrast, wrote down eight times that percentage of the loans on their books. 
 But there is a wrinkle. Small banks lent out a smaller percentage of their customers' deposits -- 83.11 percent in the second quarter, to be exact -- than the big banks, which converted 94.24 percent of deposits into loans, according to SNL Financial. 
 That's a meaningful difference. If all banks in the United States kept their loan-to-deposit ratios in line with smaller banks, some $830 billion less credit on total deposits of $7.54 trillion would reach American businesses and consumers than if all banks adopted the big banks' lending ratio. 
 Credit is important to a smoothly functioning system, though of course it might not be such a bad thing if the dodgiest layer of today's borrowers couldn't get loans. 
 On balance, the data tend to support those who favor dismantling or shrinking huge institutions like Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, all of which actually increased market share during the financial panic by acquiring weakened and failed rivals. 
 Yet while small banks have done better by many measures, the gap between them and the big players appears to be narrowing. For example, from the first quarter to the second, the difference between the return on assets at small and large banks shrank by nearly 20 percent. And uncollectable debts at small banks, while still far lower than at large ones, had doubled as a percentage of average loans. 
 That may be a sign that the loans small banks focus on, like those made to small businesses and real estate developers, tend to underperform later in an economic downturn than big corporate and consumer loans. But it's still hard to see the gaps between big and small banks disappearing completely. 
 And there's another benefit to fragmentation besides performance. While many of the largest lenders have, through the bailout policies of the last year, been officially designated too big to fail, no community bank represents a systemic risk. 
 The president may be on to something in praising the merits of a financial system consisting of banks that might be called too small to bail. ROB COX
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama has praised smaller banks for responsible lending practices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (58%); ZAVALA COUNTY BANK (53%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); YUMA, AZ, USA (74%) UTAH, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



807 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Iran Test-Fires Missiles That Put Israel in Range

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL and NAZILA FATHI; Alan Cowell reported from Paris, and Nazila Fathi from Toronto.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Locked in a deepening dispute with the United States and its allies over its nuclear program, Iran said Monday that its Revolutionary Guards had test-fired missiles with sufficient range to strike Israel, parts of Europe and American bases in the Persian Gulf.
 ''Iranian missiles are able to target any place that threatens Iran,'' a senior Revolutionary Guards official, Abdullah Araqi, was quoted as saying by the semiofficial Fars news agency. 
 The reported tests of the medium-range, liquid-fueled Shahab-3 and the solid-fueled Sejil-2 missiles on Monday, as well as short-range missiles on Sunday, came just days after President Obama and the leaders of France and Britain used the disclosure of a previously secret nuclear processing plant under construction in Iran to threaten Tehran with a stronger response to its efforts to enrich uranium. 
 Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes, but many in the West say it is seeking to develop a nuclear weapon. The Obama administration is now working to assemble a package of tougher sanctions, which could include a cutoff of investments to the country's oil and gas industry as well as restrictions on many more Iranian banks, senior administration officials said Sunday.
 The first direct contact in decades between the United States and Iran is scheduled to take place Thursday at international talks in Geneva. Analysts said the launchings might have been intended to give Iranian negotiators the appearance of a stronger hand at the talks. 
 A spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry said at a news conference that the missile tests had been planned for some time and were not linked to the nuclear dispute, the state-run, English-language Press TV reported. The report said the tests were part of an effort to improve Iran's defenses.
 Concern about Iranian hostility toward Israel is matched by frequent speculation that Israel might carry out a strike against Iran's nuclear facilities to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons. 
 Hassan Qashqavi, the Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, said Monday that the just-disclosed enrichment facility was in Fordo, a village about 115 miles south of Tehran, and 60 miles from Natanz, the site of Iran's other enrichment plant, The Associated Press reported. That would place it, as United States officials have said, close to the holy city of Qum.
 Less than two weeks ago Mr. Obama canceled a plan from the administration of George W. Bush to station a radar facility in the Czech Republic and 10 ground-based interceptors in Poland as part of what had been described as a shield against potential missile attacks from Iran. 
 The Obama administration now plans to deploy smaller SM-3 interceptors by 2011, first aboard ships and later in Europe, possibly in Poland or the Czech Republic. 
 On Sunday, Iran test-fired three short-range missiles with a range of 90 to 125 miles as part of a military exercise named the Great Prophet IV, the state-run television said. Press TV said the tests of the Shahab-3 and Sejil-2 on Monday were also part of the exercise. 
 An ''optimized'' Shahab-3 missile has a range of 800 to 1,250 miles, it said. The Sejil-2, a two-stage missile, is more sophisticated than the Shahab-3, although it has a similar range. Parts of western Iran lie some 650 miles from Tel Aviv.
 Iran first acquired the Shahab-3 from North Korea. Because the Sejil-2 is powered by solid fuel, experts said, it can be stored in mountains, transported, reassembled and fired on shorter notice, and thus could be harder for Israel or other nations to target. 
 The military exercise and escalating tensions with the West coincide with a period of political uncertainty in Iran, in the aftermath of Iran's disputed June 12 election.
 On Monday a protest erupted at Tehran University, the first of the new school year and the first since the demonstrations that followed the vote, when opponents accused President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of falsifying results. 
 The Revolutionary Guards were essential to safeguarding the president's victory and led the violent crackdown after the election that opposition leaders say killed at least 72 people. 
 The force, which also runs the country's missile program, remains close to Mr. Ahmadinejad and accountable only to the supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
 On Sunday, in a deal that underlined its expanding economic and political power, the Revolutionary Guards purchased just over 50 percent of Iran's Telecommunication Company in a $7.8 billion deal. 
 The Revolutionary Guards, in addition to being part of Iran's military complex, has in recent years become one of the largest conglomerates in the country. It has been awarded more than 750 construction, oil and gas contracts and has its own ports. 
 Its political influence has also increased, with many of its members elected to Parliament in 2003 or appointed as cabinet ministers in 2004.
 Now, the Revolutionary Guards' hold on the country's telecommunications systems will give it further control over land-line, Internet and cellphone services. On election day, the country's text messaging service was cut off; the cellphone network was disconnected during the unrest that followed. Opposition leaders accused the government of misusing state-run services. 
 The deal announced Sunday was part of the government's plan to privatize business sectors. But critics have complained that the government is awarding institutions close to it while the real private sector is excluded. The Revolutionary Guards' unit involved in the deal competed only with a company affiliated with the Basij, a paramilitary organization that assisted the Revolutionary Guards in putting down the postelection protests. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Shahab-3 missile before launching on Monday from an undisclosed location in Iran. Iran said it had a range up to 1,250 miles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI SHAIGAN/FARS NEWS AGENCY, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); POWER PLANTS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); POLAND (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); GULF STATES (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



808 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: President Obama Will Go to Copenhagen to Lobby I.O.C.

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama has changed his mind. After weeks of saying he would not make the trip, he will go to Copenhagen to lobby the International Olympic Committee on behalf of Chicago's bid to host the 2016 Games. 
 Mr. Obama will leave Washington on Thursday night, and his plane will touch down in the Danish capital Friday morning. He will make it just in time to take part in Chicago's final presentation to the I.O.C. before the committee votes on a host city that afternoon. Mr. Obama will also meet with Danish leaders before returning to Washington later in the day.
 Chicago is competing against Madrid, Rio de Janeiro and Tokyo to host the Games in 2016, and this will be the first time an American president has lobbied for a city in person. Chicago's bid leaders hope Mr. Obama's appearance will push Chicago to the front in the competition, which is tight. So far, Rio is thought to be the favorite over Chicago, but only by a whisker.
 If Chicago wins, it will be the first Summer Games held in the United States since the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. The I.O.C. vote will take place Friday, with the winner announced at 12:30 p.m. Eastern. 
 ''I think he hopes that he can make a strong case for Chicago and America's bid for the Olympics in 2016,'' the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said in a briefing Monday, referring to Mr. Obama's whirlwind trip. ''Obviously, any Olympics showcases the country that those Olympics are in, and there's a tangible economic benefit to those Games being here. And the president wants to help out America's bid.''
 Previously, Mr. Obama had said that the pressing issue of health care reform would prevent him from making the trip to Copenhagen. Advisers had also said that they were worried that he could be embarrassed internationally if he traveled to Copenhagen and the committee did not vote for Chicago. 
 So Michelle Obama, a lifelong Chicagoan, was initially chosen to represent the administration. She will arrive in Copenhagen on Wednesday to begin speaking with some of the 106 members of the I.O.C., accompanied by Valerie Jarrett, senior adviser to the president and the head of the White House Office on Olympic, Paralympic and Youth Sport.
 Already, Mrs. Obama has prepared the other bid cities for an all-out battle to win votes. At a briefing with reporters and Ms. Jarrett in the State Dining Room on Monday, Mrs. Obama said she sat next to Marisa Leticia Lula da Silva, the first lady of Brazil, at a dinner during the Group of 20 economic summit last week in Pittsburgh.
 ''I adore her, but I said, 'I'm going to hug you now, and then I'm going after you in Copenhagen.' '' Mrs. Obama said. ''And she said, 'You, too.' So the gloves are off.''
 The Obamas, whose Chicago home is a short walk from the proposed Olympic stadium, will be part of Chicago's final presentation Friday and will field questions from the I.O.C. 
 Mr. Obama made the decision, Ms. Jarrett said, because ''he wanted to make sure he did it at a time when it wouldn't have an impact on health care reform.'' Earlier in the day, Mr. Gibbs said Mr. Obama was going to Copenhagen because Mr. Obama thought ''health care is in a better place.'' 
 At a briefing at the White House on Monday, Mrs. Obama said she and her husband were aware that his trip put pressure on him to deliver.
 ''You're darned if you do and you're darned if you don't,'' she said. ''I'd rather be on the side of doing it. And I think that's how the president feels.''
 She added: ''But we've learned, just in a campaign process, that people are making up their minds until the very end, and that one conversation or one example or illustration that connects could make the difference. And our view is, we're not taking a chance.''
 Each of the four cities vying for the bid will have a head of state at the vote. Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan was the final leader to confirm his travel plans, with the announcement made Monday, shortly after Mr. Obama's. Almost immediately, I.O.C. members and others questioned the necessity of having top leaders drop everything to make the trip.
 In recent years, it has become increasingly common for a country's top leader to lobby the I.O.C. Prime Minister Tony Blair of England was said to have won the 2012 Games for London over Paris and New York, arriving in Singapore before the 2005 vote and staging individual meetings with I.O.C. members. Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia, was thought to have won votes and the 2014 Games for Sochi when he addressed the membership in English.
 In a teleconference last week, Jacques Rogge, the I.O.C. president, said it was an honor -- not a requirement -- that the cities have their country's top leaders at the vote. 
 ''It is also reassurance that public authorities are behind the bid and will be supportive,'' he said.
 Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago said in a statement sent Monday that the Obamas ''symbolized the hope, opportunity and inspiration that makes Chicago great.'' 
 Jonathan Haugen, 32, an editor who lives in the Chicago's Wicker Park neighborhood, said that he was excited that Mr. Obama would go to Denmark and that he would be watching the vote closely Friday. 
 ''Obama gets a lot of respect internationally,'' he said. ''There are so many factors; maybe Obama could be what it takes to tip the scales.''
 Dick Pound, an I.O.C. member and a former Olympian from Canada, said Mr. Obama's presence could prove crucial, pointing out that London beat Paris, which had been an overwhelming favorite, by 54-50.
 ''It's great for Chicago that the president will be there because the rest of the world considers him a superstar,'' Mr. Pound said in a telephone interview from Lausanne, Switzerland. ''The difference between his administration and his outreach compared to the previous one is night and day. He's regarded as a transformational figure, which only helps Chicago.''
 Some members of the I.O.C., including Mr. Pound, have said there is too much emphasis on having heads of states attend the vote.
 ''This may be getting out of hand, where, if the U.S. is bidding, the president of the free world has to drop everything to be there,'' Mr. Pound said. ''The risk is that you start getting away from the substance of the bids. 
 ''Maybe in the future, if you wish to include a DVD of your head of state, that's fine. But a personal appearance wouldn't be permitted. In my personal view, we have to stop and put things back into perspective.''
 Peter Baker and Rachel L. Swarns contributed reporting from Washington, and Emma Graves Fitzsimmons from Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (77%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (92%); DENMARK (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



809 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: A Few Jewels Left In Milan's Crown

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

DATELINE: Milan 

 BODY:
 The Italian spring collections put everything out there for people to see -- the economic stresses on creativity, the loss of power as designers let others tell them what to make. Oh, yes: there were some nice clothes, too.
 Since the 1950s, fashion know-how has been the business of Italy and France, with the biggest, richest names emerging from Milan in the '70s to captivate people with their artistry and innovation. In the '90s, two women, Miuccia Prada and Jil Sander, led other designers into new conceptual areas, Ms. Prada with her widely copied nylon bags and notion of ''ugly chic.'' 
 Now, though, Italian supremacy in design and manufacturing is being severely tested. Certainly, consumers in Europe, Japan and the United States have turned frugal, and that has put more power into the hands of retailers to decide which designs are worthy and which are not.
 That role used to belong to visionary designers.
 Today, despite ''Made in Italy'' promotions, a lot of manufacturing is done outside Italy -- in China, Romania and dozens of other countries. This year employment in Italy's textile and apparel industry is expected to fall 7.4 percent, to 470,000 workers, from 508,000 at the end of 2008, according to a trade report. That's a decline from a total of 900,000 workers in the mid-'90s.
 Yet perhaps of greater concern to individuals like Luigi Maramotti, the chief executive of MaxMara, is the loss of the knowledge of how clothes are made. ''The new generation doesn't want blue-collar jobs,'' said Mr. Maramotti, whose company trains young people to be supervisory technicians in its factories.
 He added, ''It's not a scandal if in 10 years clothes are made somewhere else -- if we know how to do it.'' Mr. Maramotti paused. ''It's very difficult to explain this to the world because it's all about slogans.''
 Consumers are not dumb. Excitement occurs when something is genuinely innovative. ''Ikea, Ryanair, Zara,'' said John Hooks, the deputy general manager of Giorgio Armani, in a wide-ranging interview this week, ticking off European innovations for homes, vacations and fashion. Gildo Zegna, the chief executive of Ermenegildo Zegna, pointed to the success of suits made with fabrics that can lower or raise body temperature by 10 degrees. ''Men love it,'' he said.
 Prada was perhaps the last big brand that produced excitement on the women's side.
 A weekend of joyless shows by major talents conveyed the sense of inertia. Dolce & Gabbana reworked corsets and cafe-curtain lace. Heavy on beige, Karl Lagerfeld's boudoir show for Fendi made you think a giant pair of old pantyhose had fallen over Milan.
 Designer reps and cheerleading journalists sometimes call this fetal state ''being focused.'' So Peter Dundas, in his second season at Pucci, showed sexy leather jackets with slouchy silk pants and hot booties, along with a kind of St-Tropez belly-dancer dress.
 But, really, he just gave editors what they wanted, which was more of the same flashy Balmain look. He may have led Pucci, an LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton brand, out of its print comfort zone, but he didn't actually lead us anywhere.
 The same was true at Marni and Gucci. Though the fluid shapes and dotted silks at Marni possessed a slip-and-slide ease -- and the striped leggings a zany Seuss touch -- it was hard to see what was distinctive, at least now, about silky layers over leggings.
 At Gucci, Frida Giannini offered cutout dresses and stretchy high-waist trousers garnished with the cords and buckles of extreme sports. A jacket with strips of leather embroidered in an ikat pattern looked unusual, and the pattern also served as a grainy print, as if pixeled. But while it took skill to attach all those metal bits, it was confined to the surface.
 The standout shows at the close of Milan were Jil Sander, Bottega Veneta and Missoni.
 Angela Missoni's new clothes merit attention because, aside from their flattering silhouette in ultralight layers, virtually every garment was a knit. That took a willingness to look again at the Missoni history and ask how the techniques could be aired out. She did it.
 Bottega Veneta can be a little precious. But this time Tomas Maier presented a far more engaging and individual view of dressing than he has in the past. The use of white cotton canvas was sort of a theme in Milan, mixed with ivory, but Mr. Maier made it functional -- with trim shorts, boxy jackets and tunics with folded pleats and side ties.
 A brown woven bag looked as if it had been dipped in egg wash. There was Delft blue, too, and a terrific day-to-evening dress with a soft skirt in a maroon-and-gray striped silk. 
 ''In a way, it was about letting go,'' said Raf Simon after his Jil Sander show, which made reference on video screens to the 1970 film ''Zabriskie Point'' and land art projects -- most vividly, Richard Wilson's ''Turning the Place Over,'' in which he cut a huge round hole into the side of a factory and made the cutout piece turn in place. 
 If you want to see what is possible in contemporary fashion when you ''let go,'' look at this collection. Almost every garment uses a fairly simple technique, like tacking scissor-cut squares of fabric to a navy sheath or doing the top half of a navy wool tunic dress in sheer navy knit. But each effect, like the Wilson piece, plays with your senses. At the same time, the line of the clothes is undeniably chic.
 Mr. Simons is innovative, but he doesn't get enough support from the Sander owners. It is becoming, in fact, more and more clear that the next wave of innovation will come from another culture -- from China or India, perhaps, as it did in the '80s from Japan.
 ''Look at the way the Japanese exported their know-how -- their love of miniature, their user-friendly service,'' said Mr. Hooks of Armani, who thinks that a credible designer could emerge from India in a dozen years. ''When a culture is self-confident, it can translate what the rest of the world wants.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MISSONI: A multilayered tank dress of mesh and jersey in dusty shades.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GIUSEPPE ARESU/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
JIL SANDER: A crepe sheath arrayed with fabric scraps, left. Above, a cutout jacket and rolled shorts.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FENDI: A linen top, gauzy and fraying, and a draped skirt.
MARNI: A three-tone jacket and loose shorts over leggings.
EMILIO PUCCI: The finale showing strappy graphic prints and Grecian gowns.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO CALANNI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
GUCCI: A silk dress in an ikat print worn with a snaffle-bit belt.
 BOTTEGA VENETA: A bustier and tiefront cropped pants, with a silk cardigan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); APPAREL MFG (77%); TEXTILES (77%); FABRICS (77%); TEXTILE MFG (75%); RETAILERS (72%); GARMENT WORKERS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

COMPANY: PRADA SPA (85%); JIL SANDER AG (58%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (52%); ERMENEGILDO ZEGNA HOLDITALIA SPA (51%)

TICKER: 1913 (HKSE) (85%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (52%); RYA (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315280 OTHER CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (85%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (58%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); MIUCCIA PRADA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (94%); FRANCE (91%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



810 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: In Pitch For Games, A Gamble For Obama

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JULIET MACUR; Emma Graves Fitzsimmons contributed reporting from Chicago, and Rachel L. Swarns from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Less than two weeks ago, President Obama lamented that he was too busy to go to Denmark to lobby for Chicago's bid to host the Olympics. ''I would make the case in Copenhagen personally,'' he said, ''if I weren't so firmly committed to making real the promise of quality, affordable health care for every American.''
 Evidently, his commitment to health care is no longer quite so time consuming. Mr. Obama announced Monday that he would fly to Copenhagen this week after all to lobby the International Olympic Committee for the 2016 Summer Games.
 Mr. Obama changed his mind and decided to take a gamble no other American president has taken at the urging of his close friend and senior adviser, Valerie Jarrett, who has been deeply involved in promoting Chicago's bid. He hopes to trump the presence in Copenhagen of his counterparts from rival countries seeking the games -- Brazil, Japan and Spain -- and duplicate the success that Tony Blair of Britain and Vladimir V. Putin of Russia have had in recent years by personally lobbying for their nations' bids. 
 ''Having the leader of the free world there supporting the bid sends a good message,'' Michelle Obama, who was originally tapped to go to Copenhagen without her husband, told reporters at the White House. ''It will demonstrate to the I.O.C. that this bid has unprecedented commitment throughout our government.''
 At the same time, crossing the ocean for a dramatic personal plea on behalf of his adopted hometown involves at least some political hazards. Mr. Obama risks looking parochial at a time of enormous challenges and, perhaps even worse, risks a major international embarrassment if the committee rebuffs him and rejects Chicago in favor of Rio de Janeiro, Tokyo or Madrid.
 Unlike most other White House trips overseas, where agreements and statements are pre-arranged so the traveling president can appear to bring home something tangible, there is no guarantee that the Olympic committee will accede to Mr. Obama's wishes. So Mr. Obama's advisers are relying on the conclusions of Olympics analysts who have said the decision is so close that he could put it over the top by influencing just a few votes on the 106-member committee.
 While the White House said Mr. Obama felt freer to go than he did 13 days ago because health care legislation appeared in better shape, his schedule is still packed with other high-stakes matters of state. He has two Situation Room meetings this week to discuss sending more troops to Afghanistan. And diplomats will open long-awaited nuclear talks with Iran in Geneva on Thursday, just hours before he boards Air Force One for Copenhagen.
 ''The Olympics are great, and having Chicago be the host city would be phenomenal,'' Representative Peter Hoekstra of Michigan, the ranking Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, said in an interview. ''I just don't see how it fits into any priority. This is about leadership style. I think the president needs to focus on the things that are really important, and the Olympics don't fit into that category.''
 Senator Christopher S. Bond of Missouri, the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, noted that Mr. Obama had spoken only once with his Afghanistan commander since June. ''It's baffling that the president has made time to pitch the Olympics in Copenhagen, appear on Letterman and every other station except the Food Network and Fox, but not to talk to our top commander on the ground,'' Mr. Bond said.
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said it was an appropriate use of presidential time. ''Surely it's within the purview of the president to root for America,'' he said. Bringing home the Games would be a ''wonderful opportunity to showcase the United States,'' he said, and provide ''a big economic benefit.''
 Mrs. Obama dismissed the politics of the decision. ''You're darned if you do, and you're darned if you don't,'' she said. ''I'd rather be on the side of doing it. And I think that's how the president feels.''
 Moreover, aides noted that it would be a relatively small time investment. Mr. Obama will leave Thursday evening and fly overnight, arriving in Copenhagen just in time to join Chicago's final presentation Friday morning, when he and the first lady will address the committee. He returns to Washington on Friday afternoon.
 No American president has tried this before, largely because it had not been the custom of national leaders to appear in person until Mr. Blair went to Singapore in 2005 to lobby for London to win the 2012 Games. Mr. Putin followed suit two years later to win the Winter Games of 2014 for Sochi. National leaders representing the other three finalists this year all plan to be in Copenhagen, with Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan confirming shortly after Mr. Obama's announcement.
 Richard W. Pound, a committee member and former Olympic athlete from Canada, said Mr. Obama's presence could be crucial, pointing out that London beat Paris, the overwhelming favorite, by a vote of 54 to 50.
 ''It's great for Chicago that the president will be there because the rest of the world considers him a superstar,'' Mr. Pound said by telephone from Lausanne, Switzerland. ''The difference between his administration and his outreach compared to the previous one is night and day.''
 But, Mr. Pound said, it might be getting ''out of hand'' when ''the president of the free world has to drop everything to be there.''
 The Obamas' home in Chicago is a short walk from the proposed Olympic Stadium, and Mayor Richard M. Daley hailed their decision to travel to Copenhagen, saying they ''symbolized the hope, opportunity and inspiration that makes Chicago great.''
 Jonathan Haugen, 32, an editor who lives in the Wicker Park neighborhood in Chicago, said he was excited about the president's trip to Denmark. ''Obama gets a lot of respect internationally,'' Mr. Haugen said. ''There are so many factors. Maybe Obama could be what it takes to tip the scales.''
 Mrs. Obama made clear that she plans to compete fiercely. She told reporters that she sat next to the first lady of Brazil at a dinner at the G-20 economic summit in Pittsburgh last week. ''I adore her,'' she said. ''But I said, 'I'm going to hug you now and then I'm going after you in Copenhagen.' And she said, 'You too.' So the gloves are off.''
 ''It's a battle,'' she added. ''We're going to win. Take no prisoners.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama this month with Tim Morehouse, an Olympic fencer. Mr. Obama heads to Denmark on Friday, hoping to give Chicago an edge in winning the 2016 Olympic Games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser, lobbied for the trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); PETER HOEKSTRA (54%); TONY BLAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (91%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); DENMARK (91%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFGHANISTAN (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); SWITZERLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



811 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Creeping Up to 5 Digits Yet Again

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

DATELINE: It is only a number 

 BODY:
the stock market equivalent of an appliance chain's millionth customer, or the gazillionth hamburger served at McDonald's.
 Still, the Dow, which closed up 124.17 points, at 9,789.36, on Monday, is within reach of 10,000. Who would have thought?
 At the depths of Wall Street's crisis, when traders were despairing and shares of Citigroup were trading for just over a dollar, Dow 5,000 seemed a likelier prospect than this. 
 But now, one of the most-watched measures of the financial world is on the cusp of jumping back to five-digit territory. 
 That does not mean the economy's problems are over, or that 401(k)'s are going to be made whole anytime soon. In fact, this milestone could even stall the rally if enough investors use it as an opportunity to cash in their gains, analysts say. 
 But a big round number is often seen as a way of assessing the market's health, and whether it has enough juice to climb much higher. 
 ''Will 10,000 make a difference to some people?'' said Stuart Freeman, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors. ''It's psychological, but if enough people act on it, it's meaningful. The higher a market goes, the more that those on the sideline sit there and are concerned they're missing something. It takes a while for their fear to wear off.'' Indeed, investors who pulled out of the market as Wall Street crumbled would have missed a Dow that has rebounded more than 3,000 points in seven months. The Nasdaq index is up 35 percent since the start of the year, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up more than 17 percent. 
 Some of the recession's biggest winners are again flying high, with stocks like Goldman Sachs closing at $182.50 a share. JPMorgan Chase reported nearly $3 billion in quarterly profits this summer. Shares of Apple are flirting with record highs.
 Much of the run-up has been fueled by signs that some corners of Wall Street, helped by Washington's taxpayer lifelines, have returned to functioning almost normally. Corporate mergers and public stock offerings appear to have rebounded in recent weeks, pulling the market higher. Short-term loans are flowing. Companies with better credit can again raise money without paying huge risk premiums.
 Yet the Dow at 10,000 could also herald a pause in the white-knuckle rally. 
 Analysts are divided about whether the stock market is overpriced or underpriced now, but stocks have gotten much more expensive since the main indexes hit their lowest points in a decade in early March. A share of Bank of America, which was selling for a little more than $3 in March, now costs $17. Shares of the American International Group, the corporate image of the financial crisis, have surged sixfold, although the price is still a small fraction of what it was before the government rescued the company. 
 And even if the recession is technically nearing an end, 15 million people are still unemployed, and stagnant incomes and higher rates of personal saving could reduce corporate revenue growth to a trickle for years to come. 
 Then there are the potential new waves of mortgage foreclosures; fresh losses in commercial real estate; consumer defaults on credit cards; and the possibility of another bubble in oil prices, all of which could prevent markets from enjoying anything like exuberance for a while.
 ''The bottom line reality is, it's still an economy that's in the midst of a major change,'' said Bill O'Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management. ''The real debate that underlies the Dow 10,000 story is the raging debate about what is going to be the form of the recovery.'' 
 The enthusiasm over that round figure is now a decade-long phenomenon. Consider this: President Bill Clinton was in office when the Dow Jones industrial average first closed above 10,000 in March 1999. It retreated in the years after the dot-com bubble deflated, then retook 10,000 in late 2003 and peaked at 14,000 in October 2007. We all know the cataclysm that followed.
 So Dow 10,000 does not mean that the market is finally edging ahead; it is simply catching up to where it was a decade ago. ''It's been a bad 10 years, a really bad 10 years,'' said David Bianco, chief United States equity strategist at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch. 
 The constant march of inflation also dilutes the meaning of 10,000. Prices rose an average of about 2.8 percent each year in the last decade, meaning the Dow would have to reach about 13,200 in today's numbers to equal its value then. If this limbo seems dreary, imagine spending the next decade talking about Dow 10,000.
 The Dow first closed above 100 points in 1906, when Theodore Roosevelt was president and American Car and Foundry and National Lead were members of the index. And it did not go much higher from there. It was still trading close to 100 as the 1920s began, then spiked at the end of the Roaring Twenties. But it crashed during the Depression, and was once again hovering around 100 as the United States entered World War II.
 In 1966, the Dow came within 20 points of hitting 1,000, then fell off sharply. The stock index kept bumping its head against that threshold for more than 15 years as the American economy endured high inflation, oil embargoes, price controls and regular swings in the stock markets.
 Not until 1982 did the Dow move decisively above 1,000.
 ''You can spend years around a particular milestone,'' said Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup. ''I'm not talking about a year or two. I'm talking about way more than 10. They're not short-term phenomena.''
 The New York Times ran a front-page article about the Dow's first trip across the 10,000 marker in 1999. This article is being written in September 2009. Investors should hope there will not be a similar article in 2019. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In 1999, traders at the stock exchange celebrated when the Dow passed 10,000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM NADEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1)
The electronic board of the New York Stock Exchange on March 29, 1999, as the Dow passed 10,000 for the first time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (pg.B8) CHARTS: WEEKLY CLOSES OF THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.B1)
 A BUMPY RIDE FOR SOME DOW COMPONENTS: How the 30 current components of the Dow Jones Industrial average have fared since the index first closed above 10,000 on March 29, 1999. Eight companies that were part of the Dow then but are no longer in the index are also shown. (pg.B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MERGERS (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); US 401K PLANS (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009



812 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; UNITED TASTES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Fast Food Even Before Fast Food

BYLINE: By JOHN T. EDGE

DATELINE: Shinnston, W.Va. 

 BODY:
 AFTER dropping a load of siding scrap at the dump here, Jeff Willis, a contractor in this onetime coal mining center, returned to the Go Mart for his second pepperoni roll of the morning. 
 From a shelf by the door, above a cooler stocked with cellophane-wrapped sausage biscuits, he grabbed a paper bag of the rolls, baked that morning at D'Annunzio's in nearby Clarksburg, W.Va., and delivered before the sun rose. 
 ''My mother packed these for my father,'' Mr. Willis said, as he bit into a yeast-risen stub of white bread, seams bursting with coins of Hormel pepperoni, bottom tinged russet by the meat's aromatic grease. ''He worked a coal mine. This was his lunch. I eat the same thing. Breakfast and lunch both, it's what I want.'' 
 In the northern reaches of West Virginia, along a corridor of Appalachia stretching from Buckhannon, through Clarksburg, up to Morgantown, an appetite for pepperoni rolls cuts across class strata. 
 At BFS convenience stores, where they're sold alongside Hot Pockets and other nationally distributed grab-and-go foods, shift workers warm pepperoni rolls in microwave ovens and dip them in packets of marinara sauce. At the Ritzy Lunch, a venerable diner in Clarksburg, grill cooks dress split rolls with chili and cheese. Country club barkeepers sell pepperoni rolls as ballast to beer-drinking golfers. They're a breakfast food for glass-plant laborers, peddled at doughnut shops. 
 ''You didn't have to speak English to dig coal,'' John Brunett said one recent afternoon, summarizing the cultural forces that gave birth to the pepperoni roll, the signature product of his family's bakery.
 Along with his mother, Janice Brunett, and his sister, Marisa Brunett, he owns Tomaro's, a humble bunker of a business, with ovens in back and counter service up front. Founded by his great-grandfather, Anthony Tomaro, in 1914, the bakery is a community hub in the Italian-dominated Glen Elk neighborhood of Clarksburg. 
 West Virginians recognize the pepperoni rolls as a vestige of the state's bituminous coal mining industry, which, in the early years of the 20th century, before mechanization reduced the need for manual labor, recruited Italian immigrants to do extraction work with dynamite and pickax. 
 In 1900, West Virginia was home to more native-born citizens than any other state. But, as the coal industry boomed and labor needs surged, that changed. Coal companies sought, as one historian put it, ''a more docile, controllable work force than their American-born counterparts.'' 
 They did not get what they bargained for. Italian immigrants were just as inclined, if not more so, toward union affiliation and action. 
 By 1915, there were more Italian laborers than any of the other 20-plus nationalities working the coal fields. 
 Out of that cauldron of labor strife and self-definition came a hybridized food that owed as much to West Virginia as it did to Calabria, the region from which so many of the Italian immigrants came. 
 Asked to talk of pepperoni roll origins, Mr. Brunett spoke of his family history in the mines. (His great-grandfather swung a pickax.) 
 But he didn't stake a claim to pepperoni roll primacy. 
 ''I'm not sure who baked the first one,'' he said as a customer bit into a hot roll threaded with sticks of peeled, long-cut pepperoni. ''We don't say that. But we're pretty sure it was an Italian thing, at least to start.'' 
 Most informed eaters here know the early script: In advance of clambering into a dank and dark coal seam, Italian miners loaded tin pails with hunks of hearth-baked bread as well as various American takes on Italian salumi, from bologna to pepperoni. 
 From there, it was a short evolutionary step to selling commercially baked pepperoni rolls in taverns and country stores to shift workers in need of cheap and portable food. 
 (Some locals tell stories of bakeries that tried to market other meat-filled buns and rolls, stuffed with everything from salami to ham, but it seems that, by the late 1930s, pepperoni was the preferred filling.)
 Mr. Brunett talks of pepperoni rolls as peculiar totems of Italian-American identity in West Virginia. And he's right. 
 But their size and utility are comparable to a number of hand-held foods, engineered for on-the-job consumption by miners. 
 Meat-and-potato-stuffed pasties, popular on the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, where copper mining was once important, have their likely origins in the tin mines of Cornwall, England. 
 The variously flavored Moon Pies of Tennessee were, according to Chattanooga Bakery company lore, developed by a route salesman for the lunch pails of Kentucky coal miners. 
 Today, although a mechanized mining industry employs far fewer laborers than it once did, the Italian presence in the northern reaches of West Virginia remains formidable. (By one estimate, nearly 40 percent of Clarksburg residents claim some Italian ancestry.) 
 A sign in front of Mama's Country Kitchen, in downtown Clarksburg, advertises ''Italian style foods,'' not meatloaf and mashed potatoes. 
 Nearby, Oliverio's Cash & Carry, a specialty foods manufacturer, packs sweet peppers in tomato sauce and sells them statewide to red-sauce restaurants and hot dog huts alike. 
 But here the bread is the tell. And the idiom is peculiar to West Virginia. 
 Here par-baked Sicilian-style pizza crusts are sold ready to be filled with sauce, cheese and toppings and baked on cookie sheets. 
 Hamburger patties with American cheese and sweet peppers, built on bases of thick-sliced bread from Tomaro's or one of the other Italian bakeries, are sold -- by checkered tablecloth spaghetti houses and carhop burger joints alike -- as Giovanni sandwiches. 
 Tomaro's is the oldest survivor of the days when coal camps teemed with Italian immigrants who stoked beehive ovens with oak logs. But it's not the only one. Home Industry Bakery of Clarksburg -- which owes its counterintuitive name to a Depression-era beginning as a business that sold home baked goods for local women -- bakes pepperoni rolls that, when hot, ooze with pepper cheese. And Abruzzino's in nearby Gypsy bakes pepperoni rolls that look like elongated dinner rolls, with cottony interiors that brim with folded slices of meat. 
 Relative upstarts like Brake's Dairy King in Buckhannon, on the southern fringe of the pepperoni-roll corridor, do not hew to the dictates of tradition. 
 The proprietor, Chris Brake, who claims no Italian heritage and who has been baking rolls since just 1998, takes great pride in his rolls, which he says are so labor intensive that he can manage to bake only on Thursdays. 
 Mr. Brake has an expansive view of how to serve them. ''You can nuke these in the microwave,'' he said of his rolls, which are broader and heftier than the style found in Clarksburg. ''They can take it. My rolls can take anything. I'll split them open and pile anything on. I'll put ice cream in the son-of-a-gun if somebody wants one that way.''
 The loaded roll -- smothered in chili, capped with cheese -- may foretell the future. Chris Pallotta, the current proprietor of Country Club Bakery in Fairmont, founded in 1927 by Giuseppe Argiro as People's Bakery and touted by many as the origin point of the pepperoni roll, doesn't seem to mind that his artisanal-quality baked goods are considered by many customers to be mere foils for all manner of condiments. 
 One morning, as two giant shop fans cooled racks of fresh-baked pepperoni rolls, he talked of tailgating at Mountaineer Field on the campus of West Virginia University, in Morgantown. 
 ''On football Saturdays, I see my rolls everywhere,'' he said. ''They split them open and stuff them with provolone and peppers and wrap them in tin foil. I see them put scoops of hot dog chili on top.'' 
 Like Chris Brake, he sees in today's post-coal-mining economy the prospect for continued relevancy as a new generation of consumers applies an avalanche of American condiments to his Italian-American pepperoni rolls. 
 ''I don't care how they use them,'' said Mr. Pallotta, who dresses his own rolls with Oliverio's peppers. ''I'm just glad to see that they're starting with pepperoni rolls.'' 
 UNITED TASTES: One is a series of articles exploring American cuisine and its evolution. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOCAL TREAT: David Franklin digs into a pepperoni roll in Clarksburg, W.Va.(pg. D1)
 FAR FROM CALABRIA: From left, John, Marisa and Janice Brunett run Tomaro's Bakery in Clarksburg, W.Va., where pepperoni rolls are still favorites.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); FAST FOOD (87%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); BAKERIES (77%); RETAIL BAKERIES (77%); PREPARED FOODS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); GOLF (70%); HISTORY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MORGANTOWN, WV, USA (72%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



813 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: China's Ties With Iran Complicate Diplomacy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Li Bibo contributed research.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Leaders of the House Foreign Affairs Committee swept into Beijing last month to meet with Chinese officials, carrying a plea from Washington: if Iran were to be kept from developing nuclear weapons, China would have to throw more diplomatic weight behind the cause.
 In fact, the appeal had been largely answered even before the legislators arrived. 
 In June, China National Petroleum signed a $5 billion deal to develop the South Pars natural gas field in Iran. In July, Iran invited Chinese companies to join a $42.8 billion project to build seven oil refineries and a 1,019-mile trans-Iran pipeline. And in August, almost as the Americans arrived in China, Tehran and Beijing struck another deal, this time for $3 billion, that will pave the way for China to help Iran expand two more oil refineries.
 The string of energy deals appalled the Democratic chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Representative Howard L. Berman of California, who called them ''exactly the wrong message'' to send to an Iran that seemed determined to flout international nuclear rules.
 But some analysts see another message: as the United States issues new calls to punish Iran for secretly expanding its nuclear program, it is not at all clear that Washington's interests are the same as Beijing's.
 That will make it doubly difficult, these analysts say, to push meaningful sanctions against Iran through the United Nations Security Council, where China not only holds a veto but has also been one of Iran's more reliable defenders.
 ''Their threat perception on this issue is different from ours,'' said Zalmay Khalilzad, who as the American ambassador to the United Nations under President George W. Bush helped persuade China to approve limited sanctions against Iran. ''They don't see Iran in the same way as we do.''
 Francois Godement, a prominent China scholar and the president of the Paris-based Asia Center, put it more bluntly. ''Basically,'' he said, ''the rise of Iran is not bad news for China.''
 To be sure, China and the United States, leading members of the club of nuclear nations, share a practical interest in halting the spread of nuclear weapons to volatile areas like the Middle East. And it is in China's interest to avoid alienating the United States, its economic and, increasingly, diplomatic partner on matters of global importance.
 But beyond that, many experts say, their differences over Iran are not only economic but also ideological and strategic.
 The United States has almost no financial ties with Iran, regards its government as a threat to global stability and worries that a rising Tehran would threaten American alliances and energy agreements in the Persian Gulf.
 In contrast, China's economic links to Tehran are growing rapidly, and China's leaders see Iran not as a threat but as a potential ally. Nor would the Chinese be distressed, the reasoning goes, should a nuclear-armed Iran sap American influence in the region and drain the Pentagon's resources in more Middle East maneuvering.
 ''Chinese leaders view Iran as a country of great potential power, perhaps already the economic and, maybe, militarily dominant power in that region,'' said John W. Garver, a professor of international relations at Georgia Tech and the author of ''China and Iran: Ancient Partners in a Post-Imperial World.''
 An alliance with Tehran, he said, would be a bulwark against what China suspects is an American plan to maintain global dominance by controlling Middle Eastern energy supplies.
 Beyond that, China relies heavily on Iran's vast energy reserves -- perhaps 15 percent of the world's natural gas deposits and a tenth of its oil -- to offset its own shortages. The Chinese are estimated to have $120 billion committed to Iranian gas and oil projects, and China has been Iran's biggest oil export market for the past five years. In return, Iran has loaded up on imported Chinese machine tools, factory equipment, locomotives and other heavy goods, building China into one of its largest trading partners.
 China scholars say that the relationship is anything but one-sided. Iran has skillfully parceled out its oil and gas reserves to Chinese companies, holding exploration and development as a sort of insurance policy to retain Chinese diplomatic backing in the United Nations.
 For its part, China has opposed stiff sanctions against Iran's nuclear program, acceding mostly to restrictions on trade in nuclear-related materials and orders to freeze the overseas assets of some Iranian companies.
 Many experts question how much more punishment Beijing would agree to support. Iran has already been cited three times by the Security Council, with Beijing's backing, for flouting prohibitions against its nuclear program.
 In each case, Beijing agreed to measures only after stronger American proposals had been watered down and after Russia, the Council's other critic of stiff sanctions and a close ally of Iran, had signed off on the proposal.
 One noted Chinese analyst, Shi Yinhong of People's University in Beijing, said in a telephone interview this week that China would probably follow much the same course should a new sanctions proposal reach the Security Council.
 ''China will do its utmost to find a balance'' between Iran and the United States, Mr. Shi said. If Russia joins the other Council members in supporting a new sanctions resolution, he said, ''China will do its best to try to dilute it, to make it limited, rather than veto it.''
 But it is unlikely to do so happily. Supporting stronger sanctions might elevate China's image as a global diplomatic leader, but the United States, not China, would reap the real benefits.
 ''China is not anxious to jump on this American train,'' said one Chinese analyst, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to freely assess China's foreign policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, center, with Chinese workers at a highway tunnel project northwest of Tehran in June.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIR POURMAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); VETO (73%); APPROVALS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: HOWARD L BERMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAN (91%); GULF STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



814 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Stories, From Shadows to Spotlight

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Frail and dignified at 88, the man leaned on his cane and smiled as the story of his immigration in 1936 flashed behind him on a museum wall. Like tens of thousands of others who managed to come to the United States from China during a 60-year period when the law singled them out for exclusion, the man, Tun Funn Hom, had entered as a ''paper son,'' with false identity papers that claimed his father was a native citizen. 
 For years, it was a shameful family secret. But Mr. Hom, a New York laundry worker who helped build battleships in World War II and put three children through college, outlived the stigma of an earlier era's immigration fraud. 
 A narrow legalization program let him reclaim his true name in the 1950s. His life story is now on permanent display at the Museum of Chinese in America, which reopened last week at 215 Centre Street. And it illuminates an almost forgotten chapter in American history, one that historians say has new relevance in the current crackdown on illegal immigration. 
 ''When we think about illegal immigration, we think about Mexican immigrants, whereas in fact illegal immigration cuts across all immigrant groups,'' said Erika Lee, the author of ''At America's Gate: Chinese Immigration During the Exclusion Era, 1882-1943.'' The book traces how today's national apparatus of immigration restriction was created and shaped by efforts to keep out Chinese workers and to counter the tactics they developed to overcome the barriers.
 The current parallels are striking, said Professor Lee, who teaches history at the University of Minnesota. And though some descendants of paper sons do not make the connection, many others have become immigrant rights advocates in law, politics or museums like this one, which hopes to draw a national audience to its new Chinatown space, designed by Maya Lin.
 ''In the Chinese-American community, it has only been very recently that these types of histories have been made public,'' Professor Lee said. ''Even my own grandparents who came in as paper sons were very, very reluctant to talk about this.''
 For Mr. Hom, who was a teenager when he arrived to work in his father's laundry on Bleecker Street, the past is now a blur. ''It was so long ago that I hardly remember,'' he said, as his wife, Yoke Won Hom, 82, straightened the lapels of his suit for a photograph.
 But when his memory was still sharp, his daughter Dorothy transcribed 48 pages of his taped recollections, which became the basis of a four-minute first-person narrative produced by the museum. It is one of 10 such autobiographical videos that form the museum's core exhibit. 
 ''To get into the U.S. under the laws back then, I had to pretend to be another person,'' Mr. Hom wrote. His father had bought him immigration papers that included 32 pages of information he was to memorize in preparation for hours of interrogation at Ellis Island. 
 Such cheat sheets were part of an elaborate, self-perpetuating cycle of enforcement and evasion, historians say. The authorities kept ratcheting up their scrutiny and requirements for documents, feeding a lucrative network of fraud and official corruption as immigrants tried to show they were either merchants or native-born citizens, groups exempt from the exclusion laws.
 Mr. Hom was allowed ashore as Hom Ngin Sing, a student and son of a native. In reality, his father had made it to the United States only about six years earlier, through a similar subterfuge, like an estimated 90 percent of Chinese immigrants of the period.
 Like many poor families from Taishan, a region that sent many emigrants to California during the Gold Rush of 1849, the Homs had deep ties to the United States. Mr. Hom's great-uncle, for example, died in the San Francisco earthquake of 1906.
 But unlike any other immigrant group, the Chinese were barred from naturalizing. That bar was part of the Chinese Exclusion Act, which was passed in 1882 after years of escalating anti-Chinese violence in the West spurred by recessions, labor strife and a culture of white supremacy. 
 The law was expanded in 1892 with a measure that required all Chinese to register with the government and subjected them to deportation unless they proved legal residency, which required the testimony of at least one white witness.
 In a comment that reflected the tone in Congress, one senator asserted that the government had the right ''to set apart for them, as we have for the Indians, a territory or reservation, where they should not break out to contaminate our people.'' 
 Lawyers argued that the law was repugnant to ''the very soul of the Constitution.'' But it was upheld in a sweeping Supreme Court decision of 1893, Fong Yue Ting v. United States, which held that the government's power to deport foreigners, whether here legally or not, was as ''absolute and unqualified'' as the power to exclude them. That finding reverberates today, said Daniel Kanstroom, a legal scholar and the author of ''Deportation Nation.'' 
 Long after exclusion laws were repealed by Congress in 1943, after China became a World War II ally, that vast power over noncitizens was deployed in raids against immigrants of various ethnic groups whose politics were considered suspect. 
 In the 1950s, Mr. Hom and his relatives, like many Chinese New Yorkers, suddenly faced the exposure of their false papers in just such an operation. The government was tipped off by an informer in Hong Kong as part of a cold war effort to stop illegal immigration. 
 ''We were very scared,'' said Mrs. Hom, who worked at the family's laundry, first in the Bronx, then in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. ''Everybody was very worried on account maybe they all be sent back to China.''
 But in a government ''confession program,'' Mr. Hom and some of his relatives admitted their illegal entry; because Mr. Hom had served in the military, he received citizenship papers within months. 
 As someone who never made it to high school, he now beams over his children's professional successes and his six multiethnic grandchildren. His son, Tom, is a dentist in Manhattan; his daughter Mary is a physician in the Syracuse area, and Dorothy, an interior designer, works with her husband, Michael Strauss, a principal with Vanguard Construction, which recently completed DBGB Kitchen and Bar, Daniel Boulud's latest restaurant. 
 At a time when debates about immigration often include the claim that ''my relatives came the legal way,'' referring to a period when there were few restrictions on any immigrants except the Chinese, the Hom family has a different perspective. 
 ''One's status being legal or illegal, it's two seconds apart at any point,'' Dorothy said. ''For some, the process is more difficult than others.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tun Funn Hom with his wife, Yoke Won Hom, and his daughter Dorothy at the reopened Museum of Chinese in America. Below, Mr. Hom as a younger man and during his military service, which eased his path to citizenship. At bottom, Mr. Hom, his wife and his daughter Mary after he became a citizen.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); HISTORY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); WRITERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



815 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Solar Power in a Water War

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

DATELINE: AMARGOSA VALLEY, Nev. 

 BODY:
In a rural corner of Nevada reeling from the recession, a bit of salvation seemed to arrive last year. A German developer, Solar Millennium, announced plans to build two large solar farms here that would harness the sun to generate electricity, creating hundreds of jobs.
 But then things got messy. The company revealed that its preferred method of cooling the power plants would consume 1.3 billion gallons of water a year, about 20 percent of this desert valley's available water.
 Now Solar Millennium finds itself in the midst of a new-age version of a Western water war. The public is divided, pitting some people who hope to make money selling water rights to the company against others concerned about the project's impact on the community and the environment.
 ''I'm worried about my well and the wells of my neighbors,'' George Tucker, a retired chemical engineer, said on a blazing afternoon. 
 Here is an inconvenient truth about renewable energy: It can sometimes demand a huge amount of water. Many of the proposed solutions to the nation's energy problems, from certain types of solar farms to biofuel refineries to cleaner coal plants, could consume billions of gallons of water every year.
 ''When push comes to shove, water could become the real throttle on renewable energy,'' said Michael E. Webber, an assistant professor at the University of Texas in Austin who studies the relationship between energy and water.
 Conflicts over water could shape the future of many energy technologies. The most water-efficient renewable technologies are not necessarily the most economical, but water shortages could give them a competitive edge.
 In California, solar developers have already been forced to switch to less water-intensive technologies when local officials have refused to turn on the tap. Other big solar projects are mired in disputes with state regulators over water consumption.
 To date, the flashpoint for such conflicts has been the Southwest, where dozens of multibillion-dollar solar power plants are planned for thousands of acres of desert. While most forms of energy production consume water, its availability is especially limited in the sunny areas that are otherwise well suited for solar farms.
 At public hearings from Albuquerque to San Luis Obispo, Calif., local residents have sounded alarms over the impact that this industrialization will have on wildlife, their desert solitude and, most of all, their water.
 Joni Eastley, chairwoman of the county commission in Nye County, Nev., which includes Amargosa Valley, said at one hearing that her area had been ''inundated'' with requests from renewable energy developers that ''far exceed the amount of available water.''
 Many projects involve building solar thermal plants, which use cheaper technology than the solar panels often seen on roofs. In such plants, mirrors heat a liquid to create steam that drives an electricity-generating turbine. As in a fossil fuel power plant, that steam must be condensed back to water and cooled for reuse.
 The conventional method is called wet cooling. Hot water flows through a cooling tower where the excess heat evaporates along with some of the water, which must be replenished constantly. An alternative, dry cooling, uses fans and heat exchangers, much like a car's radiator. Far less water is consumed, but dry cooling adds costs and reduces efficiency -- and profits.
 The efficiency problem is especially acute with the most tried-and-proven technique, using mirrors arrayed in long troughs. ''Trough technology has been more financeable, but now trough presents a separate risk -- water,'' said Nathaniel Bullard, a solar analyst with New Energy Finance, a London research firm.
 That could provide opportunities for developers of photovoltaic power plants, which take the type of solar panels found on residential rooftops and mount them on the ground in huge arrays. They are typically more expensive and less efficient than solar thermal farms but require a relatively small amount of water, mainly to wash the panels.
 In California alone, plans are under way for 35 large-scale solar projects that, in bright sunshine, would generate 12,000 megawatts of electricity, equal to the output of about 10 nuclear power plants.
 Their water use would vary widely. BrightSource Energy's dry-cooled Ivanpah project in Southern California would consume an estimated 25 million gallons a year, mainly to wash mirrors. But a wet-cooled solar trough power plant barely half Ivanpah's size proposed by the Spanish developer Abengoa Solar would draw 705 million gallons of water in an area of the Mojave Desert that receives scant rainfall.
 One of the most contentious disputes is over a proposed wet-cooled trough plant that NextEra Energy Resources, a subsidiary of the utility giant FPL Group, plans to build in a dry area east of Bakersfield, Calif.
 NextEra wants to tap freshwater wells to supply the 521 million gallons of cooling water the plant, the Beacon Solar Energy Project, would consume in a year, despite a state policy against the use of drinking-quality water for power plant cooling. 
 Mike Edminston, a city council member from nearby California City, warned at a hearing that groundwater recharge was already ''not keeping up with the utilization we have.'' 
 The fight over water has moved into the California Legislature, where a bill has been introduced to allow renewable energy power plants to use drinking water for cooling if certain conditions are met.
 ''By allowing projects to use fresh water, the bill would remove any incentives that developers have to use technologies that minimize water use,'' said Terry O'Brien, a California Energy Commission deputy director.
 NextEra has resisted using dry cooling but is considering the feasibility of piping in reclaimed water. ''At some point if costs are just layered on, a project becomes uncompetitive,'' said Michael O'Sullivan, a senior vice president at NextEra.
 Water disputes forced Solar Millennium to abandon wet cooling for a proposed solar trough power plant in Ridgecrest, Calif., after the water district refused to supply the 815 million gallons of water a year the project would need. The company subsequently proposed to dry cool two other massive Southern California solar trough farms it wants to build in the Mojave Desert.
 ''We will not do any wet cooling in California,'' said Rainer Aringhoff, president of Solar Millennium's American operations. ''There are simply no plants being permitted here with wet cooling.''
 One solar developer, BrightSource Energy, hopes to capitalize on the water problem with a technology that focuses mirrors on a tower, producing higher-temperature steam than trough systems. The system can use dry cooling without suffering a prohibitive decline in power output, said Tom Doyle, an executive vice president at BrightSource.
 The greater water efficiency was one factor that led VantagePoint Venture Partners, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm, to invest in BrightSource. ''Our approach is high sensitivity to water use,'' said Alan E. Salzman, VantagePoint's chief executive. ''We thought that was going to be huge differentiator.''
 Even solar projects with low water consumption face hurdles, however. Tessera Solar is planning a large project in the California desert that would use only 12 million gallons annually, mostly to wash mirrors. But because it would draw upon a severely depleted aquifer, Tessera may have to buy rights to 10 times that amount of water and then retire the pumping rights to the water it does not use. For a second big solar farm, Tessera has agreed to fund improvements to a local irrigation district in exchange for access to reclaimed water. 
 ''We have a challenge in finding water even though we're low water use,'' said Sean Gallagher, a Tessera executive. ''It forces you to do some creative deals.''
 In the Amargosa Valley, Solar Millennium may have to negotiate access to water with scores of individuals and companies who own the right to stick a straw in the aquifer, so to speak, and withdraw a prescribed amount of water each year.
 ''There are a lot of people out here for whom their water rights are their life savings, their retirement,'' said Ed Goedhart, a local farmer and state legislator, as he drove past pockets of sun-beaten mobile homes and luminescent patches of irrigated alfalfa. Farmers will be growing less of the crop, he said, if they decide to sell their water rights to Solar Millennium. 
 ''We'll be growing megawatts instead of alfalfa,'' Mr. Goedhart said.
 While water is particularly scarce in the West, it is becoming a problem all over the country as the population grows. Daniel M. Kammen, director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, predicted that as intensive renewable energy development spreads, water issues will follow.
 ''When we start getting 20 percent, 30 percent or 40 percent of our power from renewables,'' Mr. Kammen said, ''water will be a key issue.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An irrigation riser at Ponderosa Dairies farm in Amargosa Valley, Nev. The German developer Solar Millennium hopes land in the valley, below, can be home to solar plants. Public opinion, partly because of water demands, appears to be split.(pg. B1)
Ed Goedhart, a farmer and Nevada legislator, said farmers would grow less of alfalfa if they decide to sell their water rights.
 George Tucker opposes a wet-cooled solar plant. ''I'm worried about my well and the wells of my neighbors,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WATER RIGHTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); COUNTIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BIOMASS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); DESERTS (76%); WATER CONSUMPTION (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); ENGINEERING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); JOB CREATION (57%); BIOFUELS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: SOLAR MILLENNIUM AG (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

TICKER: S2M (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



816 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Guillermo Endara, 73, Who Helped Lead Panama From Noriega to Democracy, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Guillermo Endara, who suffered electoral fraud, a cracked skull and hunger on his path to succeed the strongman Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega as leader of Panama in 1989, then helped steer the country to democracy, died Monday at his home in Panama City. He was 73.
 The Associated Press reported that Mr. Endara had diabetes and kidney ailments and had been hospitalized recently for dialysis treatment. 
 As the leader of a reform coalition, Mr. Endara appeared to have won a decisive victory in the Panamanian elections of May 1989 when General Noriega nullified the results. General Noriega unilaterally installed his own president.
 Mr. Endara, a corporate lawyer known for his humility, responded by leading a street protest that ended in a bloody confrontation with the so-called Dignity Battalions, squads controlled by General Noriega. Mr. Endara was hit on the head with a steel pipe, opening his scalp and causing a mild concussion. His two vice-presidential candidates were also beaten.
 ''I won't back off one inch,'' Mr. Endara said then at a news conference as he sat in a wheelchair, wearing a hospital gown.
 He kept fighting back, first by urging Panamanians to protest by suspending payment of taxes and utility bills. He went on a hunger strike, which attracted popular attention partly because of Mr. Endara's considerable girth. General Noriega railed about ''the hunger strike clown,'' but the United States ambassador addressed him as president.
 Mr. Endara was estimated to have dropped 30 of his 265 pounds in the hunger strike.
 The denouement came in December 1989 when the United States invaded Panama to remove General Noriega, who had been indicted in American courts for drug trafficking and had himself declared war on the United States. At the request of the Americans, Mr. Endara was sworn in as president at a United States military base shortly after troops began to move in. He had to rely on a United States government fax machine to announce his installation to the world.
 Time magazine observed that ''his fledgling regime distinctly bore the label 'Made in U.S.A.' '' Always sensitive to any hint of Yankee imperialism, Latin American governments, including Communist Cuba and Chile's right-wing military regime, sharply criticized the United States' action and the new Panamanian government -- even though some of these countries had severely castigated General Noriega.
 Mr. Endara said in a 1990 interview with The New York Times that it would have been easy for him to refuse the presidency under the circumstances. During his campaign, he himself had opposed American military action, but he decided to accept.
 ''History may speak horribly of me,'' he said of his decision. ''I certainly knew the Latin Americans weren't going to be very fond of me. But morally, patriotically, civically, I had no other choice. I had to do it.''
 Guillermo Endara Galimany, an only child, was born on May 12, 1936, to an upper-middle-class family in Panama City. Various accounts say he was a brilliant student at secondary schools in Argentina and a military academy in Los Angeles, now defunct. He graduated first in his law school class at the University of Panama, and then studied law for a time at New York University.
 He returned home to open a law practice that grew into a respected corporate firm. His specialty was labor law.
 Mr. Endara, like his parents, was a devoted supporter of Arnulfo Arias Madrid, whose blend of charisma and populism has been likened to that of the Perons of Argentina. Mr. Arias was president of Panama in 1940 and 1941, from 1949 to 1951 and briefly during October 1968.
 Mr. Endara served two terms in the National Assembly as part of the Arias-led opposition. He was Mr. Arias's planning and economic minister for 11 days before the government was toppled in a military coup in 1968. Mr. Endara went underground but was captured and jailed briefly in 1971. He fled into exile but returned to help Mr. Arias rebuild his party after the ban on political activity was lifted. Mr. Arias died Aug. 10, 1988. 
 It was because of his association with Mr. Arias that Mr. Endara was chosen as a compromise candidate for president by the anti-Noriega coalition in 1988. Mr. Arias's widow had declined to run.
 As a result of the American invasion, General Noriega was extradited to Miami and convicted of drug trafficking in federal court there. His sentence, reduced for good behavior, ended Sept. 9. But he remains in custody as he fights extradition to France, where he faces money-laundering charges.
 Mr. Endara staged another hunger strike in February 1990 to pressure the United States into sending aid it had promised to Panama. Worried that the United States would forget Panama once General Noriega was removed, he stressed Panamanians' poverty.
 As president, Mr. Endara promoted freedom of speech, established a civilian-led police force and helped lay out economic policies that helped Panama achieve an annual growth rate of 8 percent under his presidency. He was unseated in the 1994 election by Ernesto Perez Balladares. He made two more unsuccessful bids for the presidency.
 His first wife, Marcela, died in 1989. He is survived by their daughter, Marcelita, and his current wife, Ana Mae Diaz.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Guillermo Endara at his 1989 swearing-in ceremony. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO LOWE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEAD INJURIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); DIALYSIS (76%); KIDNEY DISEASE (71%); DIABETES (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MILITARY BASES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); INDICTMENTS (63%); BRAIN INJURIES (53%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



817 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Iran Defends 'Rights' to Run Its Newly Declared Plant

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL and NAZILA FATHI; Alan Cowell reported from Paris, and Nazila Fathi from Toronto.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
One day after it said it test-fired missiles capable of striking targets 1,250 miles from its soil, Iran said Tuesday that it would soon offer a timetable for international inspectors to visit a hitherto secret nuclear enrichment facility, but that it was not prepared to renounce its nuclear program or debate its ''rights'' to operate the previously undeclared plant. 
 The existence of the facility near the holy city of Qum was revealed last Friday by President Obama and the leaders of France and Britain, about the same time as the United NationsInternational Atomic Energy Agency's announcement that Tehran had informed it of the plant's existence earlier in the week. 
 Coming only days before the first direct contact between the United States and Iran at international talks in Geneva on Thursday, the disclosure sharply raised tensions between Tehran and Washington, fueling suspicions that Iran is secretly seeking a nuclear weapons capacity -- a charge it has long denied. 
 Alluding to the talks on Thursday, Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of Iran's Atomic Energy Organization, told reporters in Tehran on Tuesday, ''We are not going to discuss anything related to our nuclear rights, but we can discuss about disarmament, we can discuss about nonproliferation and other general issues.''
 He added, ''The new site is part of our rights and there is no need to discuss it.'' He said Iran would not abandon its nuclear activities ''even for a second,'' Reuters reported. Western concerns over the nuclear program and its potential for hostility deepened on Monday when Iran said that its Revolutionary Guards had test-fired missiles with sufficient range to strike Israel, parts of Europe and American bases in the Persian Gulf.
 ''Iranian missiles are able to target any place that threatens Iran,'' a senior Revolutionary Guards official, Abdullah Araqi, was quoted as saying by the semiofficial Fars news agency.
 The reported tests were of the liquid-fueled Shahab-3 and the solid-fueled Sejil-2 missiles, which can travel up to 1,250 miles. The test-firings recalled a debate among spy agencies in the United States, Germany and Israel over whether Iran planned to build not only a nuclear weapon but also the means to launch it.
 Press TV, Iran's English-language satellite broadcaster, also quoted Mr. Salehi on Tuesday as saying the government was preparing a ''timetable for inspection of its recently-announced nuclear facility.'' Mr. Salehi was speaking in an interview late Monday, Press TV said. It did not say when the international weapons inspectors would be permitted to view the plant, which is not yet in operation, according to Iranian accounts.
 Mr. Salehi repeated Iranian assurances that the new plant will ''produce enriched uranium of up to 5 percent, consistent with its nuclear energy program.'' That level of enrichment is far less than required for nuclear weapons.
 ''Salehi noted that the plant is under construction within the framework of the I.A.E.A. regulations,'' Press TV said. It quoted the official as saying, ''Iran has taken all the precautionary steps to safeguard its nuclear facilities.'' 
 Mr. Salehi accused Western leaders of politicizing Iran's nuclear activities but promised that Iran would seek to resolve the dispute over the newly disclosed plant ''both politically and technically'' with the I.A.E.A. and with the outside powers that deal with the issue -- the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany.
 Mr. Salehi described as ''baseless'' accusations that Iran was planning to use the hitherto secret plant to make weapons-grade material. According to Press TV, he said it was ''against our ethics and religion'' to build nuclear weapons.
 ''It is against our tenets, it is against our religion to produce, use, hold or have nuclear weapons or arsenal, how can we more clearly state our position? Since 1974 we have been saying this,'' Mr. Salehi was quoted as saying.
 Despite such protestations, the Obama administration is now working to assemble a package of tougher sanctions, which could include a cutoff of investments to the country's oil and gas industry as well as restrictions on many more Iranian banks, senior administration officials said Sunday.
 A spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry said at a news conference Monday that Iran's missile tests had been planned for some time and were not linked to the nuclear dispute, Press TV reported. 
 Less than two weeks ago Mr. Obama canceled a plan from the administration of George W. Bush to station a radar facility in the Czech Republic and 10 ground-based interceptors in Poland as part of what had been described as a shield against potential missile attacks from Iran. 
 The Obama administration now plans to deploy smaller SM-3 interceptors by 2011, first aboard ships and later in Europe, possibly in Poland or the Czech Republic. 
 The military exercise and escalating tensions with the West coincide with a period of political uncertainty in Iran, in the aftermath of Iran's disputed June 12 election.
 On Monday a protest erupted at Tehran University, the first of the new school year and the first since the demonstrations that had followed the vote, when opponents accused President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of falsifying results. 
 The Revolutionary Guards were essential to safeguarding the president's victory and led the violent crackdown after the election that opposition leaders say killed at least 72 people. 
 The force, which also runs the country's missile program, remains close to Mr. Ahmadinejad and accountable only to the supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
 The Revolutionary Guards, in addition to being part of Iran's military, has in recent years become one of the largest conglomerates in the country. It has been awarded more than 750 construction, oil and gas contracts and has its own ports.
 On Sunday, in a deal that underlined its expanding economic and political power, the Revolutionary Guards purchased just over 50 percent of Iran's Telecommunication Company in a $7.8 billion deal. 
 The organization's political influence has also increased, with many of its members elected to Parliament in 2003 or appointed as cabinet ministers in 2004.
 Now, the Revolutionary Guards' hold on the country's telecommunications systems will give it further control over land-line, Internet and cellphone services. On election day, the country's text messaging service was cut off; the cellphone network was disconnected during the unrest that followed. Opposition leaders accused the government of misusing state-run services. 
 The deal announced Sunday was part of the government's plan to privatize business sectors. But critics have complained that the government is awarding institutions close to it while the real private sector is excluded. The Revolutionary Guards' unit involved in the deal competed only with a company affiliated with the Basij, a paramilitary organization that assisted the Revolutionary Guards in putting down the postelection protests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ESPIONAGE (72%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%) INDIAN OCEAN (53%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN (88%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (58%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



818 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Fed Proposes Rules on Credit Cards

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 The Federal Reserve proposed tough credit card rules on Tuesday to protect consumers from potentially costly practices by lenders, and moved to put in place legislation enacted in May.
 ''This proposal is another step forward in the Federal Reserve's efforts to ensure that consumers who rely on credit cards are treated fairly,'' Elizabeth A. Duke, a Fed governor, said in a statement. 
 The proposals, issued for public comment, represent part of the Fed's execution of the Credit Card Act, which was signed by President Obama in May.
 The Fed adopted final rules prohibiting unfair credit card practices in December 2008. The proposals released on Tuesday amend those regulations to incorporate provisions in the new law.
 ''The rule bans several harmful practices and requires greater transparency in the disclosure of the terms and conditions of credit card accounts,'' Ms. Duke said.
 They would protect consumers from unexpected increases in credit card interest rates by generally prohibiting a rate rise in the first year after an account is opened, and increases in a rate that applies to an existing card balance.
 They would also prohibit creditors from issuing a card to anyone under the age of 21 unless the borrower had either the ability to make the required payment, or had the signature of a parent or other co-signer who had the means to do so.
 In addition, the proposed rules would mean a consumer's consent would be needed before creditors could charge fees for transactions that exceed the credit limit, and would curb fees linked to subprime cards for consumers with risky credit.
 They would also ban ''two-cycle'' billing methods, where a creditor raises an interest rate and charges the higher rate for a customers' previous borrowing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SECURED CARDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



819 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HOW THEY DO IT OVER THERE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 254 words

BYLINE: By ANNE UNDERWOOD

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt, a professor of health economics at Princeton University, researches international health care systems. He spoke with the Prescriptions contributor Anne Underwood about the German system. The full transcript is available online. Here is an excerpt: 
 Q:Is it true that the concept of health insurance originated in Germany?
 A: During the Industrial Revolution, workers who got sick didn't earn money, so they formed what they called ''friendly societies.'' These were cooperatives into which workers paid monthly premiums, pooling their resources so they could continue the cash wages of workers who got sick. Those cooperatives became what are now called ''sickness funds'' in Germany.
 I believe it is still the best model there is, because it blends a private health care delivery system with universal coverage and social solidarity. It's inexpensive and equitable. Coverage is portable. You're never uninsured in Germany. No family goes broke over health care bills.
 Q:Many Americans are concerned that if we offer a public option in this country, private insurers will be put out of business.
 A: About 10 percent of the German population is in for-profit plans, but most people who are entitled to choose such a plan don't. It's the same in this country with Medicare. Eighty percent stay in the traditional Medicare plan rather than choosing commercial Medicare Advantage options. 
 Although the American people appear unaware of it, government is the only institution they really trust deep down.

GRAPHIC: CHART: By the Numbers. (Source: World Health Organization) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



820 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Continue to Improve, an Index Shows

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
The recovery in housing prices, which first took fragile hold in the spring, became more firmly rooted in the summer, according to data released Tuesday.
 The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index, a closely watched measure of 20 metropolitan areas, rose a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent in July from the previous month. 
 Prices increased in 17 of the cities, one more than in June. As recently as March, all had declined. 
 ''There are now several months of data in which we have seen improvement,'' said Maureen Maitland, vice president for index services at Standard & Poor's. ''California in particular seems to be showing sustained improvement.''
 The news was better than analysts had been anticipating. ''We had not expected such big gains so soon,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist of High Frequency Economics.
 Any sense of relief, however, must be considered provisional. The strength of the housing recovery will be put to substantial tests this fall.
 The $8,000 first-time home buyer tax credit, passed by Congress as part of the stimulus package in February, prompted hundreds of thousands of people to buy sooner rather than later, experts estimated. The credit is scheduled to expire on Nov. 30. If it is not renewed, some prospective buyers will probably wait until better times.
 Analysts are troubled by the prospect of banks' releasing another large supply of foreclosures. Distressed sales were a large reason for plummeting prices last year. Unemployment is still rising, which increases the supply of foreclosures and tends to discourage even those with jobs from buying.
 ''The market needs to deal with these before we can declare absolute victory,'' Ms. Maitland said.
 Some analysts think the recovery is an illusion. Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist of MFR, said he believed the recent rise was merely a correction after the large declines of the winter, when the economy was in free fall.
 ''We believe it unlikely that the overall price adjustment seen to date is sufficient to balance supply (which is enormous) with demand,'' Mr. Shapiro wrote in a research note. He added that in the middle and upper range of the market, ''there is likely plenty of pain yet to come.''
 The Case-Shiller numbers lag by a month the reports on numbers of new-home sales and existing home sales, both of which are already out for August. The news was not particularly good. Existing sales fell 2.7 percent after four months of gains, while new-home sales were up only marginally after strong gains in June and July. 
 Even if the recovery holds, prices have a long way to go before they recover the ground lost in the last three years. The Case-Shiller numbers include a national index that is back to its 2003 level.
 On a seasonally adjusted basis, home prices in San Diego were up 2 percent in July; Los Angeles rose 1.2 percent; and San Francisco increased 2.9 percent. New York rose 0.9 percent, while Minneapolis, the best-performing city, was up 3.1 percent. Without the adjustments, which is how Case-Shiller numbers were reported until recently, the increases were all somewhat greater.
 The declining cities were Seattle, which fell 0.3 percent; Detroit, down 0.4 percent; and Las Vegas, which dropped 1.9 percent. Home prices in Las Vegas, which flew higher in the boom and fell further in the bust, were down by a third over the last year.
 In another economic report released Tuesday, the Conference Board, a private research group, said that its consumer confidence index dropped to 53.1 in September, from the revised 54.5 reading in August. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected 57.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Home prices in Las Vegas, which flew higher in the boom and fell further in the bust, were down by a third over the last year (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100.(Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (95%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); CITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



821 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'HANK' ; 'THE MIDDLE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Family Time, Excruciating And Engaging

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The axiom that children should be seen and not heard is as true on television as it is at the dinner table -- less is more, and none is usually better.
 That was certainly true of ''Frasier,'' where all the childish behavior came from adults, particularly Kelsey Grammer, so perfect in the title role of a fussy windbag. It was even the case when Patricia Heaton played a harried mother of three on ''Everybody Loves Raymond.'' She was run ragged by her intrusive in-laws; her small children mostly served as props or punch lines.
 Mr. Grammer and Ms. Heaton, who worked together in a short-lived 2007 sitcom about sparring local anchors, now have their own new shows, both family comedies on ABC beginning on Wednesday. One is irreverent about family life, the other a little too respectful. Good intentions spawn bad comedy. 
 On ''Hank'' Mr. Grammer plays an ousted chief executive who has to move his wife and two children back to his humble hometown in rural Virginia. ''The Middle'' stars Ms. Heaton as Frankie, a harried mother of three in Orson, Ind., a town with few claims to fame besides a demolition derby for the homeless. 
 ''The Middle'' is funnier than ''Hank,'' and children are mostly to blame. ''Hank,'' an old-fashioned sitcom with multiple cameras and a laugh track, is infused with a wholesome, didactic streak: Hank's fall from grace gives him a second chance at being a better father. But Hank's children, an eccentric boy and a sarcastic teenage girl, are too stereotypical to add much to the mix; mostly they detract from Mr. Grammer's star turn as a lovable prig. 
 Hank's wife, Tilly (Melinda McGraw, ''Mad Men''), informs him that her blue-collar brother wants to visit. ''Of course,'' Hank snaps. ''He's probably eager to welcome us back to his tax bracket.'' 
 The comedy pivots on Hank's painful adjustment to middle-class living, but that joke is undercut with syrupy life lessons about parental responsibility and quality time.
 There is no such softness to ''The Middle,'' which posits that children are an ordeal to endure, like pay cuts, taxes and middle age. The show's title echoes its setting in Middle America, but the allusion to ''Malcolm in the Middle,'' the acclaimed Fox comedy, is even more apt. Like ''Malcolm, ''The Middle'' is a modern sitcom, a single-camera comedy without a laugh track and narrated in a voice-over (in this case by Frankie). Frankie's children are distinctly odd, and so is her husband, a quarry manager named Mike, played by Neil Flynn, who was the janitor on ''Scrubs'' and here has some of that same loony detachment. 
 Their daughter, Sue (Eden Sher), a good-natured, awkward and untalented child brimming with delusional aspirations, asks her parents if they are disappointed by her failures.
 ''Sure, I'm disappointed, Hon, it's like the 12th thing you've tried out for,'' Mike replies, adding consolingly, ''I mean, I love not having to go to the events.''
 The youngest child, Brick (Atticus Shaffer), is peculiar, and not in a cute way, which makes him all the more appealing. His teacher describes him as ''clinically quirky'' and wants him tested.
 ''I just hope that he's weird enough that our insurance covers it,'' Mike says. 
 Ms. Heaton is less acerbic than she was on ''Everybody Loves Raymond,'' but just as comical playing an overwhelmed Midwesterner who works at Orson's only surviving car dealership. Frankie touches up her roots with a brown felt-tip pen and throws fast-food bags on the dining room table with the words, ''I cooked.'' Though the troubled economy is only glancingly mentioned in the show, it colors the landscape, and that makes Frankie's ill-founded optimism all the more amusing. 
 There is no such glint of reality to ''Hank.'' Even though Hank is a fallen business giant, he isn't part of a larger social tableau: he's a self-made sporting goods tycoon who went afoul of his board of directors, not someone who went astray in the subprime market. And that disconnect contributes to the show's creaky, 1980s feel. 
 There have been plenty of successful family comedies, of course, notably ''Full House'' and ''The Cosby Show,'' but the best didn't hedge their bets and try to mix drawing room wit with playroom antics. Child rearing was the joke of those comedies, and that's why they worked. There are no children on ''30 Rock,'' ''The Big Bang Theory'' or ''Community,'' and rightly so, given their acidic balance. And the few new comedies that do include kids, like ''Modern Family,'' keep them in their place as satiric fodder, not as cutesy co-stars.
 Mr. Grammer is still funny, but his newest format is too timeworn to give his comic style a fresh boost. ''Hank'' has the right star in the wrong setting. ''The Middle'' has better balance. 
 Hank
 ABC, Wednesday nights at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.
 Created and written by Tucker Cawley; Tom Werner, Mr. Cawley, Kelsey Grammer and Mike Clements, executive producers. Produced by Bonanza Productions in association with McMonkey, Grammnet Productions, Werner Entertainment and Warner Brothers Television.
 WITH: Kelsey Grammer (Hank Pryor), Melinda McGraw (Tilly Pryor), David Koechner (Grady Funk), Jordan Hinson (Maddie Pryor) and Nathan Gamble (Henry Pryor).
 The Middle
 ABC, Wednesday nights at 8:30, Eastern and Pacific times; 7:30, Central time.
 Created and written by Eileen Heisler and DeAnn Heline; Ms. Heline and Ms. Heisler, executive producers. Produced by Warner Brothers Television.
 WITH: Patricia Heaton (Frankie), Neil Flynn (Mike), Charlie McDermott (Axl), Eden Sher (Sue) and Atticus Shaffer (Brick).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hank: Kelsey Grammer stars in the show, which begins Wednesday night on ABC, along with ''The Middle.''(pg. C1)
We are family: From left, Neil Flynn, Patricia Heaton, Eden Sher, Atticus Shaffer and Charlie McDermott experience togetherness in small-town America in ''The Middle,'' on ABC.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABC/RICHARD FOREMAN)
 Kelsey Grammer and Melinda McGraw in ''Hank,'' on ABC.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABC/PATRICK WYMORE)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); TAX LAW (75%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); HOMELESSNESS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (70%); VIRGINIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Hank (TV Program); The Middle (TV Program); Hank (TV Program); The Middle (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



822 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: A Green Amenity, Above It All

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
Office landlords have increasingly been wooing prospective tenants in recent years by marketing their buildings as environmentally friendly. Typically, these buildings are energy-efficient or recycle water. But even in these buildings, one environmental feature has been rare: a green roof.
 Green roof projects -- which feature extensive plantings on a rooftop or terrace -- are popular with environmentalists because they reduce rainwater runoff. But most landlords of multitenant office buildings have shied away from incorporating green roofs into their renovation plans, because such features are relatively expensive to install and many roofs cannot be easily adapted. 
 In office buildings where green roofs exist, they are not necessarily available for tenants to use. But when they are accessible, landlords can market them as amenities.
 Recently, green roof projects have been included in some top-to-bottom renovations of loft-style office buildings downtown. ''Older loft buildings are more adaptable, because they have large footprints,'' said Bruce S. Fowle, a senior partner at FXFowle Architects, who designed the rooftop terrace at 250 Hudson Street, which opened in the spring. 
 Mr. Fowle's 8,000-square-foot green roof is atop a 380,000-square-foot building that sits between Broome and Dominick Streets. It has two landscaped areas, with a mixture of grasses and flowering plants. The newly planted trees may be diminutive, but they are growing 15 stories above the sidewalk. A patio covers almost half the common area, and all the workers in the building -- more than 500 in total -- have access.
 In addition, a green roof is under construction at 160 Fifth Avenue, a nine-story, 107,000-square-foot office building near Union Square. And several distinct green roof spaces were part of the renovation of 200 Fifth Avenue, in the Flatiron district.
 Mr. Fowle said that landlords usually considered installing a green roof only when replacing an old roof or as part of a major renovation. Although older loft-style buildings can be well suited to this feature, he said, it would be difficult to add green roofs to glass office towers, because they tend to be tall and skinny, with very little rooftop space per occupant. Also, such roofs often hold a lot of mechanical equipment.
 The building at 250 Hudson Street, an 80-year-old former printing shop, recently underwent a $30 million renovation. Most of the money went for upgrades to mechanical systems and elevators, but roughly $3 million was spent to create the green roof. 
 Jonathan Resnick, the president of Jack Resnick & Sons, which has owned the building for decades, said the main expense for the green expanse was in reinforcing the roof to bear up under 90,000 pounds of soil and a large wooden trellis -- 80 feet long, 25 feet wide and 11 feet tall.
 But Mr. Resnick said the green roof was worth the extra cost. He now includes pictures of it in the marketing materials for the building, and he says he thinks it will be a big draw for tenants.
 More than 80,000 square feet of space is available in the building. The entire fifth, sixth and seventh floors are for rent, with floor plates of 27,000 square feet each. Half of the third floor is also vacant. Mr. Resnick plans to install three prebuilt offices on the third floor, ranging from 2,000 to 5,000 square feet apiece. But the building is mostly occupied now, because several tenants signed leases in early 2008, when the renovation work was just beginning and the commercial real estate market in New York was more robust than it is today.
 Several landscaped exterior spaces were incorporated into the renovation of 200 Fifth Avenue, a 15-story 850,000-square-foot building that sits opposite Madison Square Park, in the heart of the Flatiron district. A restaurant being designed for the roof will occupy 6,000 square feet of space. Grey Global, an advertising agency, which is the anchor tenant in the building, will have exclusive access to two landscaped patios -- one on the rooftop and one on a terrace in the middle of the building. The landlord has also built a 25,000-square-foot common garden area on the rooftop for the rest of the tenants to use.
 ''This is a great amenity for employees to relax and commingle,'' said David W. Levinson, the chairman and chief executive of L&L Holding, which owns 200 Fifth Avenue. ''And culturally, that is very good for your business.''
 As amenities, green roofs have been popular in high-end residential buildings in New York. But architects say that it is relatively rare for an owner of a multitenant office building to install a green roof and allow all the workers in the building access to it. 
 The handful of New York landlords who have gone to the extra expense are highlighting the green roofs in their marketing campaigns. But so far, the appeal of this relatively novel amenity has not been able to counteract the forces of a weak economy.
 Grey Global, which signed a lease a couple of years ago for 340,000 square feet from the seventh to the 14th floors in 200 Fifth Avenue, is the only office tenant that the landlord has signed. Roughly 340,000 square feet is available in the building, spanning the entire second through sixth floors, and half of the seventh floor.
 Although green roofs might be difficult to install atop existing skyscrapers, they have been worked into the design for new office towers, said Dan Shannon, a principal of the architecture firm Moed de Armas & Shannon.
 Mr. Shannon has included this feature in a new 30-story glass tower at 510 Madison Avenue, on the southwest corner of 53rd Street, which is being developed by the Macklowes, a New York real estate family. It will have a 7,000-square-foot green roof on the sixth floor that will be accessible to all the tenants. 
 ''The use of exterior space in commercial office buildings has been overlooked in New York,'' Mr. Shannon said. But he said that zoning regulations required architects to design setbacks in new office towers, and there was no reason that they couldn't include green roofs in these spaces.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The green roof of 250 Hudson Street in Manhattan offers an assortment of shrubs and a small seating area. The roofs are popular with environmentalists because they reduce rainwater runoff.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (65%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



823 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Pickup Sales Fall in Another Blow to Automakers

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: PONTIAC, Mich. 

 BODY:
The closing of a big General Motors truck plant this week is another sign that America's love affair with pickup trucks is fading fast.
 Sales of pickups have declined sharply this year, more than the drop in overall vehicle sales, which are at their lowest in 25 years.
 In 2004, for example, auto companies sold nearly 2.5 million pickups in the United States, many of which were used as everyday transportation, not just as work trucks or to haul trailers. 
 This year, the industry likely will sell only about a million trucks.
 The downturn in pickup sales is putting new pressure on the finances of automakers, which for years earned significant profit from trucks. 
 In Pontiac, G.M. is shutting down the 3.4-million-square-foot truck plant that has been a fixture for 37 years in this industrial city about 20 miles north of Detroit.
 Some of the production will be handled by a third shift at an assembly plant in Indiana. For the 1,100 workers who will lose their jobs in Pontiac, the closing represents the end of an era when G.M. could not build gas-guzzling pickups fast enough to meet consumer demand.
 One worker, Garey Knop, said that rising gas prices last year and the weak economy combined to kill the pickup boom.
 ''Four-dollar gas put the nail into it,'' said Mr. Knop, a pipefitter who has worked at the Pontiac plant the last 12 years. ''I drive 110 miles a day, and I wouldn't drive one of these trucks.''
 Both the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler have also closed pickup plants in recent years in an effort to bring production more in line with demand.
 But the precipitous decline in pickup sales has been greater than many auto executives had expected.
 When pickup sales were at their peak in 2004, the segment accounted for nearly 15 percent of all new vehicles sold. This year, pickup sales represent about 10 percent of the overall market.
 Some of the decline can be attributed to the slowdown in home construction and the impact on contractors, who were among the most reliable buyers of pickups.
 But the biggest drop-off has been in consumers who bought pickups for personal use.
 ''The casual truck buyer is disappearing somewhat,'' said George Pipas, the chief sales analyst at Ford. ''Today people have to make choices between what they want and what they need. And the question is, Do they really need the capabilities of this type of product?''
 Ford, for example, sold 939,000 of its industry-leading F-Series pickup in 2004. This year, through August, the company had sold just 261,000.
 ''We are pretty sure at Ford that we will never see pickups accounting for 15 percent of the total market again,'' said Mr. Pipas. ''What we're looking at now is mostly the core buyer who needs this type of vehicle for work purposes.''
 Pickup sales were a huge contributor to the bottom line at all the Detroit automakers during the peak sales years. Analysts estimated that the companies earned more than $10,000 in profit on each pickup sold, compared with marginal earnings or losses on smaller cars.
 The surge in sales a few years back prompted automakers to increase production, and was a crucial factor in Toyota's decision to open a new truck plant in Texas.
 Cheap gas lured many consumers to buy pickups and load them up with luxury options like leather seats, high-performance engines and electronic gadgets.
 ''People were feeling affluent and saw the pickup as the perfect second or third vehicle in the garage,'' said Joseph Phillippi, principal in the firm Auto Trends Consulting. ''They also were buying snowmobiles, Jet Skis and boats, and they needed something big and powerful to haul their stuff around.''
 But when gas prices soared in the spring and summer of 2008, the market began to drop quickly.
 This year, overall new-vehicle sales have tumbled to an annualized rate of about 10 million units -- a huge drop from the 16 million sales that had been the norm as recently as 2007.
 Car dealers say that the suburban cowboys who scooped up pickups have pretty much disappeared from vehicle showrooms.
 ''They didn't hunt or they didn't fish -- they just used it as a daily driver,'' said Chris Meyer, general manager of Heiser Ford Lincoln-Mercury in Glendale, Wis. ''A lot of those people have gone back to more economical vehicles.''
 Analysts said the pickup market would rebound somewhat when construction activity improved. Until then, auto companies will keep cutting production. 
 ''These personal-use buyers just got scared out of the market by the rise in gas prices last summer,'' said John Wolkonowicz, an analyst with the forecasting firm IHS Global Insight. ''But when construction comes back, some of the sales should come back, too.''
 In Pontiac, many of the workers are grappling with a decision whether to transfer to work the third shift at G.M.'s truck plant in Fort Wayne, Ind.
 ''If they want a job they're going to have to follow the product,'' said Doug Bowman, president of United Automobile Workers Local 594. ''They'll have to pick up their families and go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ken Robinson, 61, will retire when the pickup plant closes.(pg. B1)
Pickups at the G.M. plant in Pontiac, Mich., that is closing this week. Pickup sales were worse than automakers expected.
 Garey Knop, a pipefitter at the Pontiac plant for the last 12 years, said high gasoline prices hurt pickup sales. ''I drive 110 miles a day and I wouldn't drive one of these trucks,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B8) CHART: Downshift in Pickup Sales: High gas prices and the recession have hit pickup truck sales hard, especially the large truck segment, which is dominated by the American automakers.(Source: MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



824 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Supermarket Divides Bronx Community

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Gregory Faulkner, a community leader in the Bronx, has noticed over the years that many residents shop for groceries outside the borough, where they can find a wider selection of organic and other healthy foods. So when the city chose a developer last year to transform the Kingsbridge Armory in the northwest Bronx into a shopping mall, Mr. Faulkner asked that a top-notch supermarket be included in the plans.
 The developer, the Related Companies, was receptive to this proposal, but Mr. Faulkner, the chairman of the Community Board 7, whose area includes the armory, ran into opposition from other community and union organizers. They fear that a new supermarket in a publicly subsidized project would threaten two other nearby stores operated by Morton Williams Supermarkets, a regional chain that employs unionized workers and has a long track record in the Bronx. 
 Many neighborhoods are clamoring for supermarkets, and the Bloomberg administration has a plan to encourage new supermarkets in underserved areas through tax incentives and zoning changes. But a coalition of 19 community, church and labor groups that has worked for years to encourage redevelopment of the armory has taken a contrarian position. The coalition, known as the Kingsbridge Armory Redevelopment Alliance, says it will seek to block the $350 million redevelopment project unless Related agrees, among other things, to exclude a supermarket or grocery store. 
 Completed in 1917, the red brick Romanesque-style landmark has not been used for more than a decade. 
 Earlier this month, the Bronx borough president, Ruben Diaz Jr., formally opposed the project because Related had not agreed to the alliance's demands, including what it says are its top priorities: a guaranteed ''living'' wage for all mall employees and mandatory procedures for hiring local residents. The City Planning Commission is expected to vote on the project next month and the City Council by the end of the year.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who in the past has supported the efforts of community groups to forge their own pacts with developers for projects like Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn, is now adamantly opposed to so-called community benefits agreements. City officials say that benefits to local residents should be considered as part of the public approval process, not in separate agreements.
 Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city Economic Development Corporation, said the split over the supermarket illustrated the flaws inherent in these pacts. ''On the one hand you have groups that are claiming to represent the communities saying no to grocery stores,'' he said, ''while on the other hand there are community groups saying we desperately need more grocery stores.''
 The supermarket fight is reminiscent of a battle waged a decade ago in East Harlem against the suburban-size and highly successful Pathmark store on 125th Street and Lexington Avenue. A crucial player in that struggle, Richard Lipsky, the lobbyist for the smaller markets that opposed Pathmark's entry into East Harlem, is representing Morton Williams. In June, Mr. Lipsky's office inadvertently sent reporters a memo to his clients in which he outlined a strategy for defeating the project or significantly modifying it ''in a direction that is acceptable to Morton Williams' interests.''
 The dispute has threatened to pit two unions against each other. Morton Williams employees are represented by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Dozens of members showed up last week to hear Richard L. Trumka, the newly elected president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., praise the Kingsbridge alliance as a model community involvement. At a rally in front of the armory, Mr. Trumka said the building could either become the heart of the surrounding area or it could become ''a profit center for people outside the community.'' 
 Large supermarkets in the New York area are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 1500, however. Pat Purcell, director of special projects for the local, said an operator like Pathmark could bring in hundreds of union jobs. ''If we knew it was a unionized employer, it would be very difficult for us not to be supportive,'' he said.
 According to recent census data, 28 percent of Bronx residents live in poverty, making it the poorest urban county in the nation. The August unemployment rate was 13.2 percent. 
 In recent years, community benefits agreements have eased the way for numerous large projects in New York and elsewhere. Wage and local hiring guarantees have been a standard part of such pacts, and many have also included a ban on big-box stores or pawnshops and checking-cashing stores. In the agreement for its newly opened Gateway Center at Bronx Terminal Market, Related agreed not to lease space to Wal-Mart. Some contracts have enumerated preferred retail uses. 
 Amy Lavine, a staff lawyer at the Government Law Center at Albany Law School, who monitors community benefits agreements, said she knew of no other pact that excluded supermarkets and grocery stores. ''Completely excluding a use that's beneficial to a community (as opposed to pawnshops and the like) may be counterproductive and not in the community's best interests,'' she said. While protecting existing businesses may be a worthy goal, she said, ''protecting specific individual stores raises a perception of favoritism and verges on being anticompetitive.''
 But John Goldstein, the national program director for the Partnership for Working Families, which provides technical assistance to local organizations, including the Kingsbridge alliance, said it was important to protect local businesses that were willing to invest in a low-income community when other businesses would not.
 A 20,000-square-foot Morton Williams store on Kingsbridge Road and Jerome Avenue, one of 12 supermarkets operated by the company in the New York area, is opposite the elevated subway tracks and the armory and also houses the company headquarters. 
 Valerie Sloan, a vice president, said the company made a point of hiring from the Bronx and had never wavered in its commitment to the borough. She said 500 of the company's 750 employees lived within 10 blocks of the Kingsbridge store, which opened in 1956. ''When the Bronx was burning, we stayed here,'' Ms. Sloan said.
 Mr. Lipsky said Morton Williams had invested $12 million in the last few years to upgrade the Kingsbridge store and had added organic products in response to requests from the community board.
 In the end, Related is not likely to allow the proposed supermarket exclusion to be a deal breaker, said Jesse Masyr, Related's lawyer. ''We're not going to be stupid about this,'' he said.
 But he said the company would not give in on the living wage demand because prospective tenants would not accept it. ''We don't believe tenants are going to sign leases that would put them in default if they didn't live up to the wage commitment,'' Mr. Masyr said. Related has signed a living wage agreement in the past -- for a stalled project in downtown Los Angeles -- but only because it was required to do so by local laws, he said.
 Though the Gateway agreement has been criticized as weak because it encourages the hiring of local residents but does not require it, Glenn Goldstein, the president of Related Retail, said that 67 percent of the employees at the new shopping center were from the Bronx. 
 Mr. Faulkner, the community board chairman, said he hoped to play a conciliatory role in bringing the alliance and Related together. ''The overall message is that it would be a mistake to think that the community is not united,'' he said. ''The worst thing would be to have the building empty for another 20 years.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Trumka, at microphone, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., speaks outside the Kingsbridge Armory.
 Valerie Sloan is a vice president of Morton Williams Supermarkets.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MAYORS (78%); ZONING (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); LOBBYING (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



825 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Less Regulation, Better Ratings?

BYLINE: By RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
Overregulating of credit ratings might just have a happy ending. 
 With rating firms under pressure from policy makers for their failures over complex structured finance ratings, there must be a tipping point at which they would give up their officially sanctioned status to escape the burdens any changes could bring. If that led to no government involvement in ratings and no reference to ratings in laws, the financial world could be a better place. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission already approves nationally recognized statistical ratings organizations and is contemplating tightening oversight and regulation further -- maybe even making the likes of Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings financially liable for rating errors. 
 Congress is in the game too, with new draft credit rating legislation circulated last week and two hearings set for Wednesday, one called by the House Oversight Committee, led by Representative Edolphus Towns, Democrat of New York, and one by a House financial services subcommittee. Even the National Association of Insurance Commissioners is taking an interest, because insurance watchdogs also use the rating firms' credit assessments. 
 The badge that comes with being nationally recognized goes alongside references to ratings in laws and regulations. Some of the specifics are unique to the United States, but the overall picture is similar elsewhere. The Treasury and others have said that officials globally should work to reduce government and investor reliance on credit ratings. But the moves toward tighter regulation suggest authorities aren't ready to cleanse the system of ratings just yet.
 But it's just possible to imagine that the big rating firms may do it themselves if they are allowed to, despite the help that the S.E.C.'s seal of approval has given to the market positions, and the profitability, of the big rating firms over the years. For example, if Congress were to approve ideas in the latest draft legislation that insist that raters shoulder significant liability for ratings that turned out badly, or tried to legislate the criteria that rating firms use, that might just drive them to forgo the privileged status of being nationally recognized to avoid the weight of the associated shackles.
 If rating firms did decide to try their luck simply as individual, if initially influential, voices in a cacophony of recommendations -- more or less how the stock research industry works -- it would greatly change the finance world. 
 For sure, ripping officially sanctioned ratings out of entrenched laws and regulations would be a wrenching process. But the potential upsides are many.
 Investors would have to do their own work rather than rely on ratings. As a result they might not buy overly complex products at all. If they had operated on that basis a few years back, the indecipherable instruments that characterized the recent credit boom might well have received a much more skeptical reception.
 More credit researchers would potentially compete, validating or challenging one another's work. The problem of incomplete public disclosure, which regulators are to some extent trying to tackle, could fade because there would be less incentive for debt issuers to favor a small group of rating firms with privileged access to information.
 Even the idea that rating firms should not be punished for errors, a tricky sell when they operate with government approval, would suddenly make more sense. And the debate over raters' conflicts of interest would die down, because investors would be free to choose the credit research they found most useful, whatever the source and whoever initiated it. 
 There would be a further advantage in that lawmakers would not feel the need to dictate to rating firms how to go about their business. That's already getting out of hand. The latest draft legislation is unlikely to survive intact, but CreditSights, an independent research firm, reckons aspects of it are ''borderline surreal'' and that over all it is too focused on allocating blame for the crisis rather than improving the system for the future.
 Perhaps best of all, removing all official recognition and regulation of ratings would free up time and money for regulators around the world, allowing them to focus on more important things.
 Of course, this whole situation is hypothetical. And moving toward it would involve a huge and costly transition, including the tricky job of ensuring that the big rating firms' outsize influence didn't somehow persist. Nonetheless, it's one example of how less regulation might end up being better regulation. Sadly, that's why interventionist policy makers are likely to stop short of letting it happen.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Edolphus Towns will oversee a hearing on credit ratings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); EQUITY RESEARCH (60%)

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: ED TOWNS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



826 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Curtain Rises Today on Senate Struggle Over Climate Change Legislation

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A draft of a climate bill that Senate Democrats will formally introduce on Wednesday suggests that the legislation will include a more ambitious greenhouse gas emissions target than one passed by the House. 
 The measure, sponsored by Senators Barbara Boxer of California and John Kerry of Massachusetts, seeks to achieve by 2020 a 20 percent reduction from 2005 levels of carbon dioxide emissions, compared with 17 percent in the House bill, according to the 801-page draft, which circulated on Tuesday. The House and Senate bills both include a long-term target of an 83 percent reduction by 2050.
 The Senate bill will be the focus of a broad political and lobbying struggle, as industry groups, environmental lobbies, local government officials, universities and advocates for the poor all scramble for advantage in legislation that would rewrite the rules of the domestic energy economy. Groups are already spending millions of dollars in organizing, mailing and advertising campaigns to influence the legislation. 
 The battle has exposed deep rifts within the Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and other business lobbies, with companies leaving their trade organizations almost daily in disputes over climate change legislation. The Chamber of Commerce opposed the House bill and will almost certainly work to weaken or defeat the Boxer-Kerry measure.
 The Senate debate will also significantly affect the American negotiating position at climate talks, sponsored by the United Nations, that are scheduled for December in Copenhagen.
 The bill would set up a cap-and-trade system to achieve the emissions targets, allowing industry and other entities to buy and sell permits within an overall emissions ceiling. The House bill, which narrowly passed in late June, would establish a similar program. 
 But the Senate measure so far leaves a number of crucial questions unanswered, chief among them how the permits to emit carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases would be distributed to utilities, manufacturers, agribusiness and other interests. The allocation of such permits, worth billions of dollars annually, was a subject of intense horse-trading in the House and is certain to touch off a major battle as the Senate debates its own version of the bill.
 The Boxer-Kerry bill will be considered in the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which Mrs. Boxer heads. Several other Senate panels, including the Finance Committee, led by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, will also play a major role in whatever climate change debate the Senate engages in this fall. A Boxer aide cautioned that the bill was still evolving. 
 While Mrs. Boxer is promising to begin hearings on her bill on Oct. 20, there is no certainty that other committees will act as quickly. The Finance Committee, where the permit allocation issue and trade questions will be decided, is in the middle of the difficult health care debate and appears to be in no hurry to take on another hugely contentious matter.
 The Senate bill reflects months of discussions among Democratic members to address their concerns with the House measure, sponsored by Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats. The latest draft of the Senate legislation includes a system somewhat different from the House bill's to ensure that the price of emissions permits does not rise or fall too quickly. The Senate measure provides what one senior aide called a ''soft collar'' to keep permit prices within a specified range from year to year.
 The Senate bill would also alter the House approach to so-called offsets, which are ways that polluting industries can get credit for emissions reductions by paying others, like farmers or timber growers, to adopt practices that reduce the overall level of carbon dioxide put into the atmosphere.
 In addition, the Senate bill would provide greater incentives for construction of nuclear power plants and for low-emissions transportation systems, an aide working on the measure said. 
 David Doniger, climate policy director of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the introduction of the Boxer-Kerry bill on Wednesday would signal the beginning of Senate debate on climate change. 
 Despite predictions that health care and other matters will consume all of the Senate calendar before members get a chance to turn to the issue, Mr. Doniger said: ''The Senate can engage and get it done this fall. There's still time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BARBARA BOXER (79%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



827 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Life in Financial Reform

 BODY:
Financial regulatory reform, which seemed to be lagging one year after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, has gotten a new boost of energy. Unfortunately, Americans still cannot be sure it will produce real reform.
 On the plus side, Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently issued proposed legislation for a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency, a step forward for one of the Obama administration's main reform initiatives. 
 In near daily hearings, the committee also has heard compelling proposals that would alter, and strengthen, the administration's overall reform plan. Last week, Paul Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve who is now a White House economic adviser, suggested ways to reduce risk-taking by banks that are stricter than those recommended by the Treasury. 
 Separately, Senator Christopher Dodd, the chairman of the Senate banking committee, has also differed with the administration. He has proposed merging the four main bank regulators into one regulatory body. He also wants a lesser role for the Fed in a reformed system. (The administration, in contrast, has proposed to keep the current regulatory regime largely intact and to give the Fed enhanced power to oversee and, if necessary, restructure or close big banks and financial firms.) 
 Also last week, the Group of 20 world leaders pledged to develop international rules by the end of 2010 in such crucial areas as capital requirements for banks, the orderly resolution of troubled too-big-to-fail institutions and the regulation of derivatives.
 But there are still signs that major differences could stall or derail the reform effort.
 To get preliminary agreement on a new consumer protection agency, for instance, Mr. Frank had to drop a provision that would have allowed the agency to require banks and other financial firms to offer so-called plain-vanilla products, like 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages, in addition to whatever more complex loans they offer. 
 The agency, as currently envisioned, would still be robust. It has the ability to create incentives that would encourage the provision of plain-vanilla products, for example, by charging reduced oversight fees to firms that offer simpler loans. In the proposed legislation, the agency also has broad power to stop products and practices that are unfair, deceptive or abusive. 
 But the change, which the White House readily accepted, is disturbing because it is an early sop to banks whose ultimate aim is to block the creation of a consumer protection agency, or, failing that, to ensure that it would have no real power. Early concessions in the House mean that it will be up to the Senate to retain the other safeguards in the proposal. Unfortunately, the White House's willingness to fight for a strong agency and Democrats' ability to deliver are both in doubt.
 Similarly, neither the White House nor Congress seems interested now in limiting the riskiest activities of commercial banks, as Mr. Volcker suggested. Rather, the emphasis is on more oversight of too-big-to-fail institutions and creating new legal tools to take control of them if they are in imminent danger of collapse. 
 The big banks, which have only gotten bigger and more powerful since the financial crisis, prefer that approach. But it may not provide the best protection to taxpayers who are in harm's way from banks that engage in high-risk capital market activities, such as equity and derivatives trading. The administration and its Congressional supporters have yet to make a strong case that the system can be made substantially safer with behemoth banks. Lawmakers need to consider alternatives. 
 The administration and Congress deserve credit for renewing momentum toward new rules and regulations for the financial industry. The real test is whether they will channel that momentum in ways that assert the interest of the public above the interests of the banks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



828 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Crackdown Leads to 1,800 Pink Slips

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A clothing maker with a vast garment factory in downtown Los Angeles is firing about 1,800 immigrant employees in the coming days -- more than a quarter of its work force -- after a federal investigation turned up irregularities in the identity documents the workers presented when they were hired.
 The firings at the company, American Apparel, have become a showcase for the Obama administration's effort to reduce illegal immigration by forcing employers to dismiss unauthorized workers rather than by using workplace raids. The firings, however, have divided opinion in California over the effects of the new approach, especially at a time of high joblessness in the state and with a major, well-regarded employer as a target.
 Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, a Democrat, called the dismissals ''devastating,'' and his office has insisted that the federal government should focus on employers that exploit their workers. American Apparel has been lauded by city officials and business leaders for paying well above the garment industry standard, offering health benefits and not long ago giving $18 million in stock to its workers. 
 But opponents of illegal immigration, including Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a Republican from San Diego who is chairman of a House caucus that opposes efforts to extend legal status to illegal immigrants, back the enforcement effort. They say American Apparel is typical of many companies that, in Mr. Bilbray's words, have ''become addicted to illegal labor.'' 
 ''Of course it's a good idea,'' Mr. Bilbray said of the crackdown. ''They seem to think that somehow the law doesn't matter, that crossing the line from legal to illegal is not a big deal.'' 
 In July, the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE, opened audits of employment records similar to the one at American Apparel at 654 companies around the country. John T. Morton, who, as assistant secretary of homeland security, runs ICE, said the audits covered all types of employers with immigrant workers, including many like American Apparel that were not shadowy sweatshops or serial violators of labor codes.
 The investigation at American Apparel was started 17 months ago, under President George W. Bush. Obama administration officials point out that they have not followed the Bush pattern of concluding such investigations with a mass roundup of workers. Those raids drew criticism for damaging businesses and dividing immigrant families.
 Immigration officials said they would now focus on employers, primarily wielding the threat of civil complaints and fines, instead of raids and worker deportation.
 ''Now all manner of companies face the very real possibility that the government, using our basic civil powers, is going to come knocking on the door,'' Mr. Morton said.
 The goal, he said, is to create ''a truly national deterrent'' to hiring unauthorized labor that would ''change the practices of American employers as a class.'' 
 The employees being fired from American Apparel could not resolve discrepancies that investigators discovered in documents they had presented at hiring and in federal Social Security or immigration records -- probably because the documents were fake. Peter Schey, a lawyer for American Apparel, said that ICE had cited deficiencies in the company's record keeping, but that the authorities had not accused it of knowingly hiring illegal workers. A fine threatened by the agency was withdrawn, Mr. Schey said. 
 After months of discussions with ICE officials, the company moved on its own to terminate the workers because, Mr. Schey said, federal guidelines for such cases were ''in a shambles.'' The Bush administration proposed rules for employers to follow when workers' documents did not match, but a federal court halted the effort and the Obama administration decided to abandon it. 
 With its bright-pink, seven-story sewing plant in the center of Los Angeles, American Apparel is one of the biggest manufacturing employers in the city, and makes a selling point of the ''Made in U.S.A.'' labels in its racy T-shirts and miniskirts. Dov Charney, the company's chief executive, has campaigned, in T-shirt logos and eye-catching advertisements, to ''legalize L.A.,'' by granting legal status to illegal immigrants, a policy President Obama supports.
 Since the audit began, Mr. Charney has treaded carefully, eager to show that his publicly traded company is obeying the law, and to reassure investors that the loss of so many workers will not damage the business, since production has slowed already with the recession. 
 But Mr. Charney is also questioning why federal authorities made a target of his company. Over the summer he joined his workers in a street protest against the firings. Because the immigration investigation is still under way, Mr. Charney declined to be interviewed for this article but did respond in an e-mail message. 
 The firings ''will not help the economy, will not make us safer,'' he said.
 ''No matter how we choose to define or label them,'' he said, illegal immigrants ''are hard-working, taxpaying workers.''
 On a recent visit to American Apparel's factory floors here, amid the whirring of sewing machines and the whooshing of cooling fans, a murmur of many languages rose: mostly Spanish, but also Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese and Portuguese. Masseurs were offering 20-minute massages for sewers in need of a break.
 But there was also a mood of mourning, as work was interrupted with farewell parties. The majority of workers losing their jobs are women, most of whom are working to support families. Many departing workers have been with the company for a decade or more. 
 Executives said many workers had learned skills specific to a proprietary production system that allows American Apparel to make 250,000 garments a week in Los Angeles, while keeping prices competitive with imports from places like China. 
 Some workers who are leaving said the company had been a close-knit community for them. Jesus, 30, originally from Puebla, Mexico, said he was hired 10 years ago as a sewing machine operator, then worked and studied his way up to an office job as coordinating manager. 
 ''I learned how to think here,'' said Jesus, who would not reveal his last name because of his illegal status.
 The company provides health and life insurance, he said, and he earns about $900 a week, with taxes deducted from his paycheck.
 Like many others, Jesus said his next move was to hunt for work in Los Angeles. He will not return to Mexico, he said, because he is gay and fears discrimination.
 ''There they treat you and judge you without even knowing you,'' Jesus said.
 He said several job offers from mainstream garment makers in this country had been withdrawn once he was asked for documents. 
 ''Being realistic,'' he said, ''I guess I'm going to have to go to one of those sweatshop companies where I'm going to get paid under the table.''
 ICE has made no arrests so far at the factory. But Mr. Morton of ICE said the agency would not rule out pursuing workers proven to be illegal immigrants. 
 Mr. Schey said company human resources managers had added new scrutiny to hiring procedures. But workers facing dismissal pointed to the line of job applicants outside the factory one recent day, who, like many of them, were almost all Spanish-speaking immigrants. 
 ''I think the Americans think that garment sewing is demeaning work,'' said Francisco, 38, a Guatemalan with nine years at the plant who is being forced to leave. 
 A top supervisor, he is training newemployees to replace him.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the firings of 1,800 immigrant workers by a Los Angeles garment maker, American Apparel, because of irregularities in their identity documents misstated the number of garments the company produces each week in Los Angeles. It is 800,000, not 250,000. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American Apparel is firing more than a quarter of the workers at its factory in Los Angeles. (A1)
American Apparel could not resolve discrepancies that investigators discovered in hiring documents. About 1,800 people are losing their jobs.
 Jesus, with his back to the camera, is a supervisor at American Apparel and is being fired. He is in the United States illegally. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); CITIES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); POLITICS (71%); CAUCUSES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN APPAREL INC (92%)

TICKER: APP (NYSE MKT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (92%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (92%)

PERSON: BRIAN P BILBRAY (75%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



829 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Tariffs Send a Signal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Present at the Trade Wars,'' by David Rockefeller (Op-Ed, Sept. 21): 
 This criticism of President Obama's decision to impose tariffs on imports of Chinese tires is an example of refighting an old, mostly irrelevant war. 
 Mr. Rockefeller's repetition of the mythology of the consequences of the 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act does not make it true. Few economists believe that it was a major cause of the Great Depression, much less of World War II. 
 More important, today's circumstances are far removed from those of the 1930s. The large, chronic trade imbalances that were a prime cause of our recent economic crisis did not exist then.
 The main problem now is that these imbalances are significantly driven by the strategic export-led growth policies of China and several other countries that aim to accumulate large, continuous trade surpluses. In effect, they are applying their own brand of Smoot-Hawley. 
 Far from being protectionist, President Obama's tire tariffs are a signal to the surplus countries that their policies must change in order to save free trade.
 Clyde Prestowitz Potomac, Md., Sept. 22, 2009
 The writer is president of the Economic Strategy Institute and served in the Reagan and Clinton administrations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); WRITERS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (73%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



830 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Iran Is Seeking a 'Two-Way Street' at Talks

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
The Iranian foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said Tuesday that talks between Iran and six major powers, which are to take place on Thursday, must be a ''two-way street'' and not just a long list of demands focused on his country's nuclear program. 
 ''On paper they claim to recognize Iran's right for a peaceful nuclear program,'' said Mr. Mottaki in an interview at the Iranian mission to the United Nations. ''That is not enough to say that on paper.'' 
 Sitting near a tan oil painting of Koranic calligraphy, Mr. Mottaki said the basis for the talks had to be a variety of issues, including the recession, trade, regional conflicts and international disarmament, as well as differences over nuclear matters like the oversight function of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
 ''I think we should also witness from the other side a strong political will for serious dialogue and constructive cooperation,'' he said. 
 Mr. Mottaki sharply condemned the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, for criticizing Iran after it disclosed last week another piece of its nuclear program, a uranium enrichment plant being constructed inside a mountain near Qum. 
 Although the plant has been under construction for a number of years, Iran told the international nuclear agency about it only last week, in what some Western officials think was an attempt to pre-empt any leverage that the United States might gain from a surprise confrontation about the plant at the talks, which are scheduled to take place in Geneva. 
 ''They should have notified the I.A.E.A. a long time before, not just before everything would be completed,'' Mr. Ban said at a news conference on Tuesday. ''There is a question of transparency.''
 Mr. Ban met with Mr. Mottaki on Tuesday, just four days after a similar session with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran. Mr. Ban again told the Iranians that Security Council resolutions required the disclosure of any new nuclear plant when construction began, he told reporters afterward. 
 ''If you were a normal country, you would declare it all beforehand,'' a senior United Nations official said Mr. Ban had told Mr. Mottaki. ''That is why you have Security Council resolutions against you, because you try to hide stuff.''
 The fact that the new uranium enrichment plant was part of a Revolutionary Guards base has heightened suspicions outside Iran that it could be part of an effort to develop nuclear weapons. Iran insists that its nuclear program is peaceful, intended solely to generate power. 
 In Tehran on Tuesday, Vice President Ali Akbar Salehi, who also leads the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, said at a news conference that the enrichment plant was being built adjacent to a military base so that it would be protected, The Associated Press reported. If the plant had been built away from a military installation, he said, Iran would have had to invest in a separate aerial defense system to protect it.
 Mr. Mottaki maintained in the interview that Iran was required to tell the international nuclear agency about the new complex only when nuclear material was introduced there. Echoing a sharply worded statement issued by the Iranian mission overnight on Monday, he accused Mr. Ban of parroting Western accusations. ''We think the secretary general of the United Nations should not repeat the rhetoric of the leaders of an old defeated system,'' he said. 
 Mr. Ban said that he had also complained to Mr. Ahmadinejad about human rights violations in the wake of the disputed presidential election in June and his disparaging of the Holocaust. Iran had requested a second meeting with Mr. Ban, which took place Tuesday with Mr. Mottaki. 
 Mr. Mottaki wanted to pass along Iran's own human rights complaints, which focused on the disappearance of at least four Iranians who he contended were in American jails or headed there through extradition. 
 The cases he cited involved Shahram Amiri, an Iranian nuclear physicist who disappeared while on a religious pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia; Brig. Gen. Ali Reza Asgari, a former Iranian deputy defense minister and Revolutionary Guards commander who was last seen during a trip to Turkey; and a young Iranian businessman detained by Georgia who was identified only as Mr. Ardabili. A fourth man, Nosratollah Tajik, a former Iranian diplomat living in Britain, has been charged with trying to smuggle night-vision equipment to Iran. 
 While the Iranians contend that they have disappeared, some of the men may have asked for asylum or refugee status and then went into hiding or assumed new identities. General Asgari is believed to be the source of new Western intelligence about the Revolutionary Guards. 
 The United States mission to the United Nations declined to discuss any of the cases. 
 During the General Assembly opening session last week, Mr. Ahmadinejad was asked repeatedly about the fate of three American hikers who wandered over the border with Iraq, as well as about Maziar Bahari, Newsweek's Iran correspondent who was arrested in summer. 
 Iran summarized what it wants to discuss during Thursday's talks in a letter Mr. Mottaki gave to several ambassadors this month. Among other issues, it called for reform of the United Nations and peace in the Middle East. The letter did not directly address Iran's nuclear program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki of Iran, left, at the United Nations on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009



831 of 831 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Where Did 'We' Go?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I hate to write about this, but I have actually been to this play before and it is really disturbing. 
 I was in Israel interviewing Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin just before he was assassinated in 1995. We had a beer in his office. He needed one. I remember the ugly mood in Israel then -- a mood in which extreme right-wing settlers and politicians were doing all they could to delegitimize Rabin, who was committed to trading land for peace as part of the Oslo accords. They questioned his authority. They accused him of treason. They created pictures depicting him as a Nazi SS officer, and they shouted death threats at rallies. His political opponents winked at it all.
 And in so doing they created a poisonous political environment that was interpreted by one right-wing Jewish settler as a license to kill Rabin -- he must have heard, ''God will be on your side'' -- and so he did. 
 Others have already remarked on this analogy, but I want to add my voice because the parallels to Israel then and America today turn my stomach: I have no problem with any of the substantive criticism of President Obama from the right or left. But something very dangerous is happening. Criticism from the far right has begun tipping over into delegitimation and creating the same kind of climate here that existed in Israel on the eve of the Rabin assassination.
 What kind of madness is it that someone would create a poll on Facebook asking respondents, ''Should Obama be killed?'' The choices were: ''No, Maybe, Yes, and Yes if he cuts my health care.'' The Secret Service is now investigating. I hope they put the jerk in jail and throw away the key because this is exactly what was being done to Rabin.
 Even if you are not worried that someone might draw from these vitriolic attacks a license to try to hurt the president, you have to be worried about what is happening to American politics more broadly. 
 Our leaders, even the president, can no longer utter the word ''we'' with a straight face. There is no more ''we'' in American politics at a time when ''we'' have these huge problems -- the deficit, the recession, health care, climate change and wars in Iraq and Afghanistan -- that ''we'' can only manage, let alone fix, if there is a collective ''we'' at work.
 Sometimes I wonder whether George H.W. Bush, president ''41,'' will be remembered as our last ''legitimate'' president. The right impeached Bill Clinton and hounded him from Day 1 with the bogus Whitewater ''scandal.'' George W. Bush was elected under a cloud because of the Florida voting mess, and his critics on the left never let him forget it. 
 And Mr. Obama is now having his legitimacy attacked by a concerted campaign from the right fringe. They are using everything from smears that he is a closet ''socialist'' to calling him a ''liar'' in the middle of a joint session of Congress to fabricating doubts about his birth in America and whether he is even a citizen. And these attacks are not just coming from the fringe. Now they come from Lou Dobbs on CNN and from members of the House of Representatives.
 Again, hack away at the man's policies and even his character all you want. I know politics is a tough business. But if we destroy the legitimacy of another president to lead or to pull the country together for what most Americans want most right now -- nation-building at home -- we are in serious trouble. We can't go 24 years without a legitimate president -- not without being swamped by the problems that we will end up postponing because we can't address them rationally.
 The American political system was, as the saying goes, ''designed by geniuses so it could be run by idiots.'' But a cocktail of political and technological trends have converged in the last decade that are making it possible for the idiots of all political stripes to overwhelm and paralyze the genius of our system.
 Those factors are: the wild excess of money in politics; the gerrymandering of political districts, making them permanently Republican or Democratic and erasing the political middle; a 24/7 cable news cycle that makes all politics a daily battle of tactics that overwhelm strategic thinking; and a blogosphere that at its best enriches our debates, adding new checks on the establishment, and at its worst coarsens our debates to a whole new level, giving a new power to anonymous slanderers to send lies around the world. Finally, on top of it all, we now have a permanent presidential campaign that encourages all partisanship, all the time among our leading politicians.
 I would argue that together these changes add up to a difference of degree that is a difference in kind -- a different kind of American political scene that makes me wonder whether we can seriously discuss serious issues any longer and make decisions on the basis of the national interest. 
 We can't change this overnight, but what we can change, and must change, is people crossing the line between criticizing the president and tacitly encouraging the unthinkable and the unforgivable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TREASON (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); IMPEACHMENT (75%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); GEORGE H W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

 
