

801 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2009

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Answers From the Admissions Dean of the University of Pennsylvania, Part 3

BYLINE: ERIC J. FURDA


HIGHLIGHT: In the third part of a series, Eric J. Furda of the University of Pennsylvania provides guidance on letters of recommendation, the prospects of tuition relief for middle class families and whether an applicant's spurning of a Penn acceptance might hurt students from the high school who apply in later years. 

 BODY:
 This week in the Guidance Office -- a forum for readers of The Choice to seek expert advice from admissions officers, guidance counselors and others in the admissions field -- our guest is Eric J. Furda, the dean of admissions at the University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Furda was previously executive director of undergraduate admissions at Columbia University. 
Today, Mr. Furda responds to more than a half dozen questions, including those asking what he looks for in letters of recommendation, whether he sees financial aid relief on the horizon for middle-class parents and whether a student's spurning of an offer of admission from Penn will hurt others from her high school who apply in future years.
To pose a question to Mr. Furda, use the comment box on our original post or the box below. Mr. Furda's answers had been scheduled to continue through Friday, but he has agreed to extend his stay on The Choice to Saturday. (Some questions and answers have been edited for length, style and other considerations.) -- Jacques Steinberg 
 Q. 
I have been asked to write letters of recommendation for two students applying to college this year. I met them when I was teaching at an academic summer camp for gifted high school students. 
I want to do right by these kids, who I believe would be a credit to any school in the country. What does an admission office look for in a letter of recommendation? What kind of information about the student should I be focusing on? The summer program where I met these students was relatively short (three weeks) but very intensive. I feel like I got to know them fairly well, but would an admissions officer prefer to hear from someone who knew the student longer?
-Nelia
 A. 
Nelia, thank you for asking this question and being willing to write letters of recommendation, which provide context not available in any other part of the application.
Admissions officers look for insight into a student's performance and future potential, and grades can tell only part of the story. Sometimes a letter from a teacher in a class in which the student was not at the top can be very revealing. How did the student interact with you and with peers? How did the student approach learning the material? In addition to being a good student, does the individual have a level of intellectual inquisitiveness and potential beyond good grades and scores?
As you ask, focusing on talent, effort, performance, character and work ethic are all important. Sometimes talking about one aspect (work ethic, for example) can suggest to an admissions office that you omitted another aspect (talent, for example) as being less impressive. You can address this by saying, "In addition to Nelia being a talented student, her work ethic stands out to me." 
As long as you feel that you got to know the student fairly well in this intensive setting, I am confident your comments will be worthwhile to an admissions officer. You may want to ask who else is writing for the student. I find that one additional letter of reference is more than enough after a counselor letter and one or two letters from secondary school teachers. If the student has requested or will request letters from other sources, it is probably too many letters, and you can respectfully decline.
 Q. 
I have been told that Penn admissions officers have told my daughter's school (an independent school in the Midwest) that it will begin reducing the number of acceptances for those of its students who apply to Penn. This is because of a reportedly low number of such accepted students who eventually matriculate at Penn. 
This begs the question: is the "yield" experienced at a school a legitimate basis upon which to evaluate - or deny - an application? Isn't this "visiting the sins" of others onto a blameless applicant?
-David
 A. 
We will not hold one student accountable for another's enrollment decision. An appealing candidate is an appealing candidate, even if others from that particular school have not chosen Penn in the past.
 Q. 
w/ Under Penn's new initiative, lower income families can send their children to Penn debt-free. My question is: when will Penn and other universities focus on the middle-class crunch; and what is being done not just at Penn, but nationwide, about the skyrocketing rates of college tuition? 
The purpose of higher-education is that "it shall be made equally accessible to all," but at this rate, we might just revert back in time and it might just be for the privileged and wealthy.
-Penn Alum C'07
 A. 
A number of questions have to do with the cost of higher education and accessibility for families across the economic spectrum. I know from my own personal experience that families make sacrifices and choices for the opportunity that a college education provides their children. 
The president of the University of Pennsylvania, Amy Gutmann, has been committed to increasing access and affordability for lower- and middle-income families. Penn's financial-aid budget has increased nearly 50 percent since Dr. Gutmann became president in 2004. This past year, grant money was substituted for loans so students can graduate debt-free, and Penn is one of fewer than 50 institutions that admits students without regard to the ability to pay. 
In the most recently enrolled class, aided families with incomes of more than $170,000 qualified for need-based awards averaging more than $15,000. Approximately 80 percent of admitted aid applicants received a need-based award, with $120 million dollars committed to undergraduate financial aid this year.
 Q. 
How safe is the neighborhood around Penn. Safer than Yale, or Columbia?
-Bill
 A. 
In both 2007 and 2008, Penn was ranked No. 1 for safety in the higher education sector by Security Magazine. Maureen Rush, my colleague and Penn's vice president of public safety, is an educator who proactively reaches out to students, families and community members to highlight the resources of her office and the responsibility we all share to ensure a safe learning environment. Building awareness about living in an urban environment begins prior to New Student Orientation. 
As stated in other posts, prospective students and families should visit campus and the surrounding community and also explore Philadelphia during the college search process. This is the best way to determine if Penn is the right place for you. Personally, wherever I have worked I have voted with my feet, meaning that I live in the community and walk to work. That is my strongest endorsement.
 Q. 
I have a foreign friend who has extraordinary interpersonal skills but, since she did only one year of high school in the U.S. (on an exchange scholarship), she didn't get to demonstrate much to her U.S. teachers and thus letters of recommendation from them will not reflect this. A recommendation from one of her teachers in her home country is a risk. 
Would it hurt -- or be seen as name-dropping or of not following the application procedure -- if she were to also get a third letter of recommendation? I am thinking of one from a fairly high-level State Department employee who got to observe these skills when the employee got to know the applicant quite well through one of her summer jobs.
-David O'Connor
 A. 
David, this supplemental letter seems most appropriate since the employer has direct knowledge of her interpersonal skills.
 Q. 
If the other parts of the application have been sent already, is it a problem if a supplemental recommendation arrives at Penn a few days (one week, maybe) after the postmarked deadline? Is there any way to let the admissions office know that it should be expecting one last recommendation?
-Applicant
 A. 
Having an additional recommendation arrive after the application deadline will not present a problem. I don't think adding another piece of correspondence is necessary to indicate that we should expect another reference.
 Q. 
If a student has a low A unweighted average (after taking advanced/honors classes) and scores very well on the SAT's, will the admissions committee at an Ivy league school still consider them?
-Michele Kreitman
 A. 
Yes, Michelle, students with a low A average in demanding courses and who score "very well" on the SATs will be considered by Ivy League schools. 

        
Answers From the Admissions Dean of the University of Pennsylvania, Last of 6 Parts
        
Answers From the Admissions Dean of the University of Pennsylvania, Part 5
        
Answers From the Admissions Dean of the University of Pennsylvania, Part 4
        
Answers From the Admissions Dean of the University of Pennsylvania, Part 2
        
Answers From the Admissions Dean of the University of Pennsylvania, Part 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ETHICS (87%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); GIFTED EDUCATION (75%); FAMILY (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%) Eric J. Furda; pennq-and-a; University of Pennsylvania; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors; Guidance Office

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



802 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Limiting Executive Pay

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Will Order Pay Cuts at Firms With Bailout Aid'' (front page, Oct. 22):
 The cuts in executive pay imposed by the federal government on taxpayer-rescued banks are a welcome step. It is hard to understand, however, why these restrictions were imposed only on the seven companies that ''received exceptional help'' from taxpayers. 
 Has it already been forgotten that the entire banking system was rescued by hefty governmental assistance in the form of debt guarantees, direct subsidies and extraordinary intervention by the Federal Reserve?
 Even Goldman Sachs, which is reportedly preparing to pay out as much in bonuses this year as it did at the peak of the economic bubble, might not exist today had it not been given access to free money from the Federal Reserve, debt guaranteed by the United States government and the $12.9 billion funneled from taxpayers through the American International Group.
 Do these huge subsidies not qualify as ''exceptional help,'' and justify limits on the obscenely high executive pay across Wall Street? If only our legislators had the courage to ask such questions.
 Francois Furstenberg New York, Oct. 22, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''Who Gets Paid What'' (Business Day, Oct. 22) describes the efforts of Kenneth R. Feinberg, the Obama administration's special master of compensation, to reduce the pay of top executives at companies that received government bailouts. The article states that the American International Group ''was having trouble identifying just who its most highly paid employees were.'' 
 As my colleague's 5-year-old son would say when expressing dismay at something incredibly astonishing: ''Whaaatttt?''
 Abel Montez New York, Oct. 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



803 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: For Every Iraqi Party, an Army of Its Own

BYLINE: By NAJIM ABED AL-JABOURI. 
Najim Abed al-Jabouri, a fellow at the Near East South Asia Center for Strategic Studies at the National Defense University in Washington, was the mayor of Tel Afar, Iraq, from 2005 to 2008. This article was translated by Sterling Jensen from the Arabic.

 BODY:
SUNDAY'S coordinated suicide bombings in Baghdad, which killed more than 150 people, were a brutal reminder of how far Iraq still has to go in terms of security. While things are far better than a few years ago, one huge task remains: getting the public to trust the Iraqi security forces. 
 From 2005 to 2008, I was the mayor of Tel Afar, a town in Nineveh Province in northern Iraq that become the model for the ''clear, hold and build'' strategy credited with turning the war around during the surge. In some ways, the story of Tel Afar is indicative of what we are now seeing on a larger scale in Iraq. 
 In 2004, Tel Afar was plagued by insurgency and terrorism, the result of missed chances and poor decisions by both the American and the Iraqi governments. In early 2005, however, I was approached by Col. H. R. McMaster, an innovative American brigade commander (he is now a brigadier general) who agreed with me that security efforts should focus on gaining the confidence of the people and not only on killing the enemy. We went to work building bridges with the population.
 First, the American and Iraqi security forces were taken out of their bases and moved full-time into city neighborhoods. Recognizing that the local police force was dominated by a certain ethno-sectarian group and that members had harmed people of other religions and ethnicities, I fired any police officer with a record of violence or other unprofessional actions. Then I recruited officers from other ethnic groups, and integrated all the units. Shiite worked with Sunni, and Turkmen and Kurd worked with Arab. 
 We also put a new focus on meeting the needs of the people -- not just keeping people safe, but trying to avoid violence from starting by encouraging Tel Afar's different groups to talk to one another. Once we gained widespread trust in our impartiality, we could be fairly sure that any resident who saw something suspicious would quickly report it to the authorities. 
 The Iraqi government needs to apply these same principles to the national security forces. Both the military and the police remain heavily politicized. The police and border officials, for example, are largely answerable to the Interior Ministry, which has been seen (often correctly) as a pawn of Shiite political movements. Members of the security forces are often loyal not to the state but to the person or political party that gave them their jobs. 
 The same is true of many parts of the Iraqi Army. For example, the Fifth Iraqi Army Division, in Diyala Province northeast of Baghdad, has been under the sway of the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, the Shiite party that has the largest bloc in Parliament; the Eighth Division, in Diwaniya and Kut to the southeast of the capital, has answered largely to Dawa, the Shiite party of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki; the Fourth Division, in Salahuddin Province in northern Iraq, has been allied with one of the two major Kurdish parties, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. 
 More recently, the Iraqi Awakening Conference, a tribal-centric political party based in Anbar Province (where Sunni tribesmen, the so-called Sons of Iraq, turned against the insurgency during the surge) has gained influence over the Seventh Iraq Army Division, which was heavily involved in recruiting Sunnis to maintain security in 2006. 
 These political schisms are partly responsible for coordinated terrorist attacks like those on Sunday or the so-called Bloody Wednesday bombings of Aug. 19, which killed more than 100. The aim of such assaults is to pull the rug from under Prime Minister Maliki in advance of the January elections. Mr. Maliki has used the security gains of the last two years as his political trump card, a strategy that gave Dawa huge gains in provincial elections last February. However, if attacks on the government rise, his opponents will harp on them in order to break Dawa's political momentum.
 I do not suggest that the political parties committed these crimes directly. But ethno-sectarian political party influence over the security forces indirectly makes it easier for enemies of Iraq to carry out their attacks. 
 The Iraqi government also made a huge mistake by failing to find a place for the Sons of Iraq in the national government. This was because of pressure from ethno-sectarian parties and their gatekeepers in the Defense and Interior Ministries, who didn't want the political balance in the forces to be altered. The Sons of Iraq, who had thrown in their lot with the new Iraq, are now politically marginalized and unemployed and may be more susceptible to settling their political differences with the government by serving the enemies of Iraq. 
 How can Iraq create a trustworthy security force? There are three lessons from the Tel Afar experience. First, remove the high-level officers in the Defense and Interior Ministries who are more loyal to their political parties than to Iraq. It does not matter if their replacements are Kurdish, Shiite, Sunni or Turkmen -- the important thing is that they are professional and not puppets of religious or ethnic militias and parties. 
 Second, the government should diversify the police forces in mixed areas and move the Iraqi Army's battalions from areas that are dominated by local political parties. This might require United States military support as intermediaries in politically sensitive areas like Kirkuk. 
 Last, the Iraqi government can do more to employ members of the Sons of Iraq, either in the security forces or with jobs in the provincial and national governments. Baghdad and Washington should also do more to jumpstart the economy in Sunni-dominated Anbar Province, which is a likely tinderbox for the next widespread insurgency.
 In a little more than two years, the United States drawdown of forces will be complete. In that time, the Iraqi security forces can go further in the direction of ethno-sectarianism, or they can find a new nationalism. True, the status quo offers a temporary balance of power between the incumbent parties, likely providing relative peace for the American exit. But deep down, ethno-sectarianism creates fault lines that terrorist groups and other states in the Mideast will exploit to keep Iraq weak and vulnerable. 
 The better alternative is to reform and gain the confidence of Iraqis. The people will trust the security forces if they are seen as impartial on divisive political issues, loyal to the state rather than to parties, and if they embody the diversity and tolerance that we Iraqis have long claimed to be a defining characteristic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (86%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MAYORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); ETHNICITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



804 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Green Offshoots

BYLINE: By LIZ GALST

 BODY:
Mario Casasnovas was on the green roof of the Bronx County Building a couple of weeks ago, remembering the flowers there in the summer and offering some tips about handling the sedum that is the main plant on the roof.
 ''The roots from the clover,'' a weed, ''tend to wrap around the roots of a sedum,'' he said, nine floors above the Grand Concourse, near Yankee Stadium. ''You've got to be careful not to pull out the sedum with the clover.'' 
 Mr. Casasnovas, an employee of SmartRoofs L.L.C., was doing routine maintenance on the vegetative roof, which his company installed in June 2003. The company, based in the Bronx, is one of the few green roofers in the New York metropolitan area. But what makes SmartRoofs even more unusual is that it is part of a tiny but growing trend among small businesses: for-profit ventures spun off by nonprofit groups that teach the job skills necessary to join the nascent green economy. 
 SmartRoofs was developed by the nonprofit group Sustainable South Bronx, which also runs the Bronx Environmental Stewardship Training, one of the country's first efforts to train people for green-collar jobs. The program now trains more than 60 low-income workers each year, using funds from a variety of sources, mostly outside government.
 Only a handful of these small businesses exist across the country. ''These social enterprises are early adopters of green industry,'' Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins, chief executive of Green for All, a national organization working to create green economic opportunities in disadvantaged communities, said via e-mail. ''These ventures are paving the way for mainstream business to integrate the concept of green jobs into everyday practices.''
 The nonprofit groups that have started these small businesses have done so primarily to advance their own missions. ''This is an opportunity to move folks out of poverty into prosperity, while greening our planet,'' said Michele McGeoy, executive director of Solar Richmond, a solar jobs training program in the San Francisco Bay Area. ''It's a win-win situation.'' 
 Solar Richmond offers a for-profit service that enables consumers to determine the economic feasibility of using solar power and helps them work with system designers and installers. ''In essence, we help consumers decipher bids from contractors,'' Ms. McGeoy said.
 By spinning off these for-profit enterprises, organizations like Solar Richmond and SmartRoofs benefit in ways that go beyond simply fulfilling their founders' missions. The businesses create new revenue for the organizations, which had been entirely dependent on private foundations, individual donors and, in some cases, government grants. 
 ''Right now, we're covering about one-fifth of our operating budget through earned income,'' said Rebekah Silverman, director for resource development at Growing Home, an organic farm and jobs program in Chicago that trains about 30 homeless people and former criminal offenders each year. Growing Home sells its produce at farmers' markets, through a community-supported agriculture program and through sales to local restaurants. 
 Similarly, Women's Action to Gain Economic Security, a nonprofit group in the San Francisco Bay Area, has figured out a way to defray some of its costs. The group helps low-income women build housecleaning cooperatives that use environmentally safe cleaning products and teaches the women the skills to run the cooperatives. It receives a fee from each co-operative it fosters. ''The fee is structured as a percentage of sales,'' said Hilary Abell, executive director of the group. ''As the business grows, the fee goes up, because they can afford to pay us more.'' In fact, the group's Oakland-based co-op, with 35 worker-owners, is projected to earn $1.2 million this year.
 While some of these sponsoring organizations, like Growing Home, have kept their business ventures within their legal and accounting structures, several others have registered their new businesses as limited liability corporations. ''The L.L.C. creates the opportunity for the business to grow, without putting our organization or our 501(c)(3) at risk,'' should the company be sued, said Brenda Palms Barber, executive director of the North Lawndale Employment Network in Chicago. She was referring to the company's nonprofit tax status. 
 She is also the founder of the Sweet Beginnings line of urban honey and natural body care products in Chicago. Using 25 hives in the backyard of its quarter-acre headquarters on the city's West Side, Sweet Beginnings L.L.C. began its honey business in 2004 with a $140,000 grant for job training from the Illinois Department of Corrections. After earning $28,000 in 2005, its first full year of operation, the company recorded sales of just over $200,000 last year. Its customers include 11 area Whole Foods supermarkets and 21 other stores and boutiques. ''We're planning to scale up regionally, in stores that are growing a green consciousness,'' Ms. Palms Barber said. 
 The L.L.C. designation also helps as Sweet Beginnings expands because it opens it up to new sources of financing, including aid from the Small Business Administration and angel investors that, she said, ''aren't available to nonprofits.'' 
 While the weak economy is cause for concern among these businesses and their nonprofit founders, virtually every organization executive interviewed for this article was optimistic about business prospects and about the possibility of starting additional ventures. 
 ''We still think it's a good time to go ahead with this,'' Ms. Abell said. Her organization has entered into what it calls a ''collaboration'' with a natural cleaning products supplier, Seventh Generation, and has started a new cleaning collective this year. ''We're thrilled to be able to create new jobs, especially in this economy,'' she said. 
 Likewise, Sweet Beginnings is talking with Chicago officials about finding a larger site for a manufacturing center. Both Solar Richmond and the Sustainable South Bronx nonprofit group are involved in the early stages of creating new enterprises. ''Whether it's making a building energy-efficient, installing a green roof, or creating a green building product,'' said Miquela Craytor, the executive director of the Bronx group, ''the more sustainable ventures we're able to start, the more individuals we're able to hire, the more restoration of our environment.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about nonprofit ''green'' organizations spinning off for-profit enterprises referred incorrectly to the status of one organization. As the article noted elsewhere, SmartRoofs is a for-profit enterprise developed by a nonprofit group; it is not a nonprofit itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A nonprofit group teaches ex-convicts beekeeping skills.
 Sweet Beginnings, a for-profit honey producer founded by the executive director of the nonprofit North Lawndale Employment Network in Chicago, recorded sales of $200,000 last year.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (88%); BUDGETS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (61%); TRENDS (53%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



805 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: A Watershed Decision

 BODY:
The decision by the Chesapeake Energy Corporation not to drill for natural gas in New York City's watershed is a smart and welcome move on the company's part, and very good news for the 8.2 million New York City residents who depend on this environmentally sensitive region for their drinking water. 
 The threat has not, however, disappeared. Chesapeake is believed to be the only leaseholder in the watershed, but its decision is voluntary and not binding on other oil and gas companies. New York State needs to adopt regulations that place the watershed permanently off limits, while imposing the strictest possible safeguards on drilling anywhere else where drinking water supplies might be affected.
 The gas is trapped in shale rock that lies a mile or more underneath the surface. The process of extracting it, known as hydraulic fracturing, requires shooting a mix of water, sand and chemicals into the ground at high pressure. While pending state regulations would require drillers to take special precautions in the watershed there are too many points in the process where toxic chemicals could escape into the water supplies. 
 Chesapeake decided against drilling there mainly for sound business reasons. Its plans had already drawn stiff opposition from some New York politicians. Any accidental contamination would create a huge environmental and public relations headache. 
 The company also hasn't given up all that much. The one million acres northwest of New York City that comprise the watershed contain less than one-tenth of the rich deposits of natural gas lodged in the state's portion of the Marcellus Shale, a thick subterranean layer of rock that runs from West Virginia to New York. The company has access to the rest.
 New York State officials, who have eagerly embraced drilling as one answer to upstate New York's economic woes, recently issued 800 pages of proposed regulations to govern drilling in the Marcellus Shale. They insisted the rules were tough enough to prevent accidents. Now Chesapeake, an intended beneficiary of these rules, has decided that whatever the safeguards, it is unwilling to take the risks. 
 Chesapeake's decision also undercuts one of Albany's main fears: that companies with leases to exploit mineral rights in the watershed would sue if the state denied them the opportunity to do so. Chesapeake has decided that it won't even try to exercise that right. And its chief executive, Aubrey McClendon, told The Times this week that he didn't expect any other company ''would dare'' to acquire leases in the watershed. All in all, Albany has no remaining excuse not to declare the New York City watershed, once and forever, a drill-free zone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); WATER QUALITY (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (93%)

TICKER: CHK (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

PERSON: AUBREY K MCCLENDON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



806 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Strategies to Help Grandchildren Now, Not Later

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
MANY grandparents want to provide a financial cushion for their grandchildren in the future. Bobbie Abrams, 76, has a more pressing concern: helping them with current expenses. 
 Ms. Abrams, whose grandparents were Russian immigrants who founded the Hudson Pulp and Paper Corporation, has six grandchildren, ages 12 to 27. After one of her sons died of cancer 19 years ago, leaving two young children, and her daughter, Carolyn Abrams-Dyer, was suddenly widowed in 1997 while pregnant with her third child, Ms. Abrams used family money to pay for private school, college and graduate school tuition, orthodontia, summer camp and more.
Getting her children and grandchildren ''on their feet'' is her highest priority, even if it leaves less for their inheritance, said Ms. Abrams, a Manhattan philanthropist, whose husband Warren died in 1994.
 Since the economic downturn, other grandparents have reached the same conclusion and are helping adult children who have suffered financial setbacks. 
 But tax traps await the unwary. Being generous can subject you to gift tax of up to 45 percent if you exceed certain limits. There is also a generation-skipping transfer tax of 45 percent on the amount of a grandparent's gift to grandchildren that exceeds $3.5 million. 
 Yet there are simple ways, a number of which Ms. Abrams has employed, for grandparents to pick up some of the biggest expenses without incurring tax.
 MAKE CASH GIFTS You are allowed to give $13,000 in cash or other assets per year to each of as many individuals as you want without having to worry about the gift tax or the generation-skipping transfer tax. Spouses can combine this annual exclusion to jointly give $26,000 to each of as many people as they like, tax-free. For example, a couple with an adult child who is married and has two children could make a joint cash gift of $26,000 to the adult child, the child's spouse and each grandchild -- four people -- providing the family with $104,000 a year. There is also a lifetime exemption of $1 million ($2 million for married couples) before gift tax applies.
 If the grandchildren are minors, their portion of the gift may go into a custodial account that designates an adult to oversee the money, generally until the child reaches 21. 
 The donor should not name herself as the custodian, because the funds could be considered part of her estate. Instead, name the child's parent, who can use the money to enrich the child's life with things like dance lessons, summer camp and after-school programs). 
 FUND COLLEGE SAVINGS A popular use of the annual exclusion is to set up a Section 529 education savings plan for each grandchild. Earnings in a 529 account are exempt from federal tax, provided the money is withdrawn to pay for tuition or certain expenses for college or graduate school.
 The law permits lump-sum deposits of as much as $65,000 a person at once ($130,000 for married couples), provided the donor files a gift-tax return that treats the gift as if it had been spread over five years. If you die before that time is up, the part of gift that reflects the number of years still to go will be considered part of your estate. Should you end up needing the money yourself, any earnings that are withdrawn are subject to income tax and a 10 percent penalty 
 PAY TUITION AND MEDICAL EXPENSES Without using your annual gift exclusion, you can pay for tuition, dental and medical expenses of anyone you want. But you must make the payments directly to the providers of those services -- you can't reimburse the people you are helping. For example, if a parent is temporarily out of work and loses health insurance coverage, the grandparent could pay the premium for the entire family. 
 Tuition may be paid annually or prepaid for multiple years, which may appeal to grandparents who are in poor health. In exchange for prepayment, some schools will agree to waive tuition increases and refund what you've paid if the grandchild transfers, said Virginia F. Coleman, a lawyer with Ropes & Gray in Boston. 
 If the school or medical provider uses a contract, the person paying the bill should sign it, said Carlyn S. McCaffrey, a lawyer with Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York. If the parent signs but the grandparent is paying, there's a risk that the I.R.S. will argue the grandparent is making a taxable gift to the child's parents by discharging their financial obligation, she said. 
 MINIMIZE HASSLES To reduce the paperwork for grandparents paying for ''med-ed'' expenses, as they are called, Michael N. Delgass, a lawyer and financial adviser at Sontag Advisory in Westport, Conn., creates an agency account: you open a bank account in your own name and put in whatever amount you want (you can add to it as the need arises or your budget permits). Using a form that the bank provides, you give another person a power of attorney for the account. 
 One of his clients now uses this tool to help a grandchild who became paralyzed through a swimming accident. The grandchild's parent has the authority to write checks from the account to the child's health care providers. 
 You do not need a lawyer to set one of these accounts, but you do need to trust the person who has check-writing power not to spend the money on other things, Mr. Delgass said.
 For clients who want to help multiple family members without being pestered, Lloyd Leva Plaine, a lawyer with Sutherland, the Washington-based firm, recommends what she calls a ''buffer trust.'' Trust beneficiaries are not entitled to payouts, but can request help as they need it from whoever is named as trustee (it could be another family member or a professional). 
 Under the terms of this trust, payouts can be made only for direct ed-med payments and annual exclusion gifts, including those put into Section 529 plans. Unlike trusts used to reduce estate taxes, this one can be revoked, if you decide you need the money yourself and it hasn't been spent, Ms. Plaine said.
 LEND MONEY If you lend money to family members -- say, to buy a house or a car or start a business -- you must charge a minimum rate of interest set each month by the Treasury, called the applicable federal rate, to avoid potential gift tax and income tax consequences. In November, the rate for long-term loans (those lasting more than nine years) and requiring monthly payments is an extremely attractive 3.94 percent. That's less than children would have to pay for a bank loan, assuming they could get one in today's tight credit market, but more than you could earn from CDs or money market accounts. So family loans are a win-win technique. Credit between family members requires the formalities of a bank loan, but it's permissible to forgo a down payment, Ms. Coleman said. In other words, you could give children a mortgage for the entire purchase price of a home. 
 BUY A HOUSE Tax experts disagree about whether rent-free living -- for instance, when a parent owns the house and the children and grandchildren occupy it -- is a gift. And neither camp can cite rules or court cases to back up its theory. Ms. McCaffrey's view is that it's permissible even if a fair market rent is more than the annual exclusion, so long as the arrangement is ''at will,'' meaning the occupants can be evicted at any time. 
 An even safer bet is to make the occupant part owner, either through a gift or a sale, lawyers said. All co-owners have a right to live there, so rent would not be required under this scenario. Ms. McCaffrey said people who adopt this strategy because they are worried about the tax consequences of rent-free use of a house should make sure each owner has an interest of at least 25 percent to 50 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FAMILY TIES: Bobbie Abrams gets a hug from her grandson Michael Abrams-Dyer, 13, while her daughter, Carolyn Abrams-Dyer, and another grandson, Jack, 12, look on. Ms. Abrams has helped family members with tuition, orthodontia and summer camp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); GENERATION SKIPPING TRANSFER TAX (89%); GIFT TAX (89%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (70%); DANCE EDUCATION (70%); DENTISTRY (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



807 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Landscaping With a Lighter Touch

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
THE days of formal gardens and English borders are fading like flowers. Zen minimalism is between a rock and a hard place. (Less meant more maintenance.) And extravagant ''outdoor rooms,'' like kitchens, are staying inside, for now. A new economy and a new state of mind have changed the way homeowners are landscaping their properties, according to landscaping professionals. 
 Increasing in demand are native plants, wood-burning firepits and kitchen gardens -- nature, in a word. Mike Mushak, a landscape architect who works with high-end residential properties in Fairfield County, Conn., and Westchester, N.Y., said his clients were more interested in growing vegetables and getting their hands dirty than owning and operating the elaborate outdoor appliances that made the yard seem like another wing of the house.
Professionals, from designers to nurserymen, agree that it is an excellent time to undertake a landscaping project. As with home renovation during the last year, contractors are competing for projects, and once-scarce materials, like mature trees, are more readily available. 
 In fact, renovating the landscape can enhance property values more quickly than an interior renovation. And green technologies offer consumers the opportunity of being at the fore. A move toward lower-maintenance landscaping has been the trend for several years, professionals say. 
 Perry Guillot, a landscape architect in Southampton, N.Y., said of current requests, ''Less walls, less walks, less complex combinations of planting -- plants that can be found locally -- and not highly constructed landscapes.'' He called it a new interest in ''authenticity'' that was not only simpler to keep up, but simpler to appreciate and less stressful to contemplate.
 ''High, high maintenance, that's moved on,'' Mr. Guillot said. ''It's like having five bad kids in the house, constantly needing things.''
 A more restrained sensibility and a new awareness of the environment have redefined what people want to see when they look out their windows.
 No more digging ponds on the ocean, planting orchards of trees that don't produce edible fruit, or creating decorative small-scale meadows. People still want lawns, Mr. Guillot said, but they are more willing to seed rather than lay sod, and to try varieties like fescue grass, which requires less water and fertilizer. Patience seems to thrive in a recession, as well as a sense of thrift.
 Because orders are slipping, more trees are maturing in the ground at nurseries.
 ''If trees get too close together, you have to cut every other one down, to leave one to grow on to bigger sizes,'' Chet Halka, a nurseryman in Millstone Township, N.J., said. Mr. Halka's specialty is big trees, on the spot. He has provided trees for Harvard University, the World War II Memorial, and he has 140 swamp white oaks waiting for Ground Zero. Because he is cutting down more trees at the nursery, the ones he leaves standing are the best ones -- superlative branch and root structure. 
 ''We will have a better selection of trees now,'' he said. ''As the economy improves, the quality of plant materials will be better.''
 Mr. Mushak says he is getting fewer requests for outdoor kitchens than kitchen gardens, as are other designers, including Deborah Nevins in New York, who said she turned a Bel Air, Calif., property into a potager for a Hollywood mogul who went unnamed.
 ''Clients want a shot at 'grow-your-own,' '' Mr. Mushak explained. ''I have no problem convincing people to turn up some of their precious lawn for a vegetable garden. And I don't think this is going away.'' He has also had an increase in requests for fire pits, ''not natural-gas, remote-controlled,'' he said, ''but a place to put logs and a couple of Adirondack chairs around it.'' 
 His clients are also making landscape choices based on energy efficiencies: shade trees on the south side of houses to cool, and wind breaks -- groups of evergreens -- on the north side to block harsh northern winds.
 Anne Howerton, a landscape architect in San Francisco, agreed that reality had set in on ''how much work you want to put into maintaining a property, at any price point.''
 ''Technically, if you can't operate it when the technician leaves, they don't want it,'' she said of clients, including one in Hawaii who told her: ''I just want to go to one place and flip a switch. I don't want to think about it.'' 
 ANOTHER trend Ms. Howerton, of the firm Hart Howerton, has seen fall out of favor -- bocce courts. ''This Tuscan thing that was part of 'wine country' -- it came and went,'' she explained. Though outdoor pizza ovens are still holding their own, outdoor bread ovens are gaining on them.
 (The writer worked briefly as a Web site editor and consultant for Hart Howerton's New York office.)
 Rainwater management, ''graywater'' use, solar energy production, geothermal heating and other landscaping topics involving sustainability and conservation are increasingly a part of the discussion, but still a hard sell. Native plant materials -- with a feel-good factor, aesthetic originality and less commitment -- are easier. Because they've become popular, native grasses are now available as sod, as well as seed.
 ''At the beginning, they always say, 'I want to do this, do that,' but when the costs come, they're the first things to go,'' Andrea Cochran, a landscape architect in San Francisco, said of talks with clients. ''They're definitely aware, but when people look at the amortization -- the payback -- they tend to cut it out. I've become a little jaded about that.''
 John Riccitiello, in Woodside, Calif., was a client who defied Ms. Cochran's expectation. Mr. Riccitiello and his wife had a green agenda: solar heating and a natural alternative to chlorination for the pool, local species for plantings and a tiny footprint of lawn. It was their first professional landscaping project, after several interior-design projects.
 Mr. Riccitiello said he thought the returns of landscaping were as great as renovation.
 ''The surprise is that it's not just prettier, it's a lot more useful,'' he said. ''People don't realize how much utility you can get out of a postage stamp of space outside, if you think about it strategically. You update the house -- it goes from blue to pink. Instead, we have five times the property we used to have. And it's made our house nicer, because the windows capture the beauty of the backyard.''
 Were there ways in which landscaping had been preferable to remodeling?
 ''Yes,'' Mr. Riccitiello said. ''You don't have to move out of your bedroom.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A SUBTLE GREEN: A garden in Southampton, N.Y., above, designed by the landscape architect Perry Guillot. At right, tufts of blue fescue, left, and white pine flank a path. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); GARDENING (90%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FERTILIZERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009



808 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Drop in U.S.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes dropped unexpectedly last month as the effect of a soon-to-expire tax credit for first-time owners started to wane, the government reported Wednesday.
 The Commerce Department said sales fell 3.6 percent in September to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 402,000 from a downwardly revised 417,000 in August. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected a pace of 440,000.
 It was the first decline since March. Sales in September were down 7.8 percent from a year ago. 
 The median sales price of $204,800 was off 9.1 percent from $225,200 a year earlier, but up 2.5 percent from the August level of $199,900.
 Earlier Wednesday, the government reported that orders to American factories for big-ticket manufactured goods rose in September as the biggest jump in demand for machinery in 18 months offset weakness in commercial aircraft and autos.
 The increase, the second advance in three months for durable goods orders, is a hopeful sign for the manufacturing sector, which has helped lead the early stages of the fledgling economic recovery. But many economists worry that demand could falter in the months ahead as various government stimulus programs wind down.
 The Commerce Department said orders for items expected to last at least three years increased 1 percent last month, matching economists' expectations. Excluding transportation, orders rose 0.9 percent, slightly better than the 0.7 percent that economists had forecast.
 A 7.9 percent rise in orders for machinery, the best showing since an 8.5 percent surge in March 2008, led the overall increase.
 Orders for non-defense capital goods, considered a good proxy for businesses' investment plans for new equipment, rose 2 percent, the strongest advance since June.
 Last month's rise in orders followed a 2.6 percent decline in August and a 4.8 percent surge in July, indicating that any recovery from the recession likely will proceed in fits and starts.
 Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist at Capital Economics in Toronto, said a large part of the September increase reflected a jump in demand for military equipment rather than strength in the private sector.
 ''The recovery is still struggling to gain any forward momentum,'' he wrote in a note to clients.
 Demand for transportation equipment rose 1.1 percent after a 9.1 percent plunge in August. Orders for defense aircraft rose 12.5 percent last month, offsetting a 2.1 percent drop in demand for commercial aircraft and a 0.1 percent dip in orders for autos and auto parts.
 The auto sector had posted two months of gains, helped by the cash-for-clunkers government sales incentive program. But that program, which offered car buyers up to $4,500 to trade in their old models for new cars, ended in August.
 Besides the surge in demand for machinery, orders for primary metals such as steel rose 0.3 percent. Orders for computers and related products increased 0.4 percent in September.
 Analysts expect that the overall economy, as measured by the gross domestic product, grew at an annual rate of 3.3 percent in the July-September quarter after contracting for a record four straight quarters. The third-quarter G.D.P. report is due out Thursday.
 If businesses are encouraged by the early signs of recovery, they could start hiring back the millions of workers who were laid off during the recession, providing an important boost to consumer spending. But many employers appear reluctant to hire back those workers until there are more signs of a rebound.
 Caterpillar announced Monday that about 2,500 laid-off workers will be permanently cut from the company. They were among more than 22,000 employees laid off earlier this year as the world's largest maker of mining and construction equipment scaled back production due to weaker demand. Caterpillar last week said it was seeing encouraging signs that a recovery was under way, even as it reported a 53 percent decline in third-quarter earnings.
 Also this month, Texas Instruments reported third-quarter profit and sales that were slightly above expectations. The company said its largest division, which makes analog chips used in digital music players and other gadgets, enjoyed 20 percent growth for the second straight quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SALES & SELLING (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



809 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: The New Rules of Angel Investing

BYLINE: By KERMIT PATTISON

 BODY:
Angels still have wings, but they aren't flying quite so high. 
 The rules of the game of angel investing have changed in the post-crisis world. The average deal size shrank by 31 percent in the first half of this year, according to a recent study by the Center for Venture Research at the University of New Hampshire. The study shows that total angel investments fell to $9.1 billion in the first half of 2009, a 27 percent decline from the same period last year, but the number of companies getting venture investments actually increased by 6 percent, to 24,500. 
 Angels are still financing deals, but at lower valuations and with more specific milestones. They have grown more picky and less tolerant of risk. ''What you're seeing now is a real flight to quality,'' said David S. Rose, chairman of New York Angels. ''If you are the real deal, you can get funded.'' 
 What's the real deal? Angels are looking for companies with more modest capital requirements. They seek companies that bootstrap, beat quicker paths to profitability and have proven management teams. ''The most striking change is angel investors are way more discerning about where they deploy their capital,'' said Bruce Cerullo, a Boston-based angel investor who specializes in health care. ''Now groups like ours are looking for more fully baked ideas that are much closer to revenue generation.''
 Do It Yourself
 There has been a sea change in risk sensitivity; the more self-sufficiency a company demonstrates, the less risky it appears. ''Bootstrap it as long as you possibly can to validate your business model and to get some traction,'' Mr. Cerullo said. ''The more traction you have, the more leverage you are going to have in a valuation negotiation with an angel or private equity investor.''
 Entrepreneurs should find ways to finance their own growth: working without salary, moonlighting, seeking grants, running lean operations and focusing on an aspect of the business that can generate revenue. 
 Bear in mind that the worst of times for the economy can be the best of times for starting a company. Labor is cheap and plentiful. The costs of starting an Internet-based company have fallen sharply thanks to cheaper technology, including open-source software. ''Work hard to figure out if there's a business plan you can pursue where your capital requirements are zero,'' said Ian Sobieski, founder and managing director of the Silicon Valley-based Band of Angels Fund. ''The easiest way to raise money is to not absolutely have to raise money.''
 Angels are looking for companies that can get to break even on the angel investment. In return, they are willing to be more patient, Mr. Rose said. In the old days, angels invested with the idea that they would finance the company at an early stage, then venture capitalists would step in with a large injection of cash that allowed it to blast off on a hockey-stick growth trajectory. 
 ''Now we're prepared to give up the immediate hockey stick in exchange for you being able to reliably get to break even on our cash while building value for the company,'' Mr. Rose said. ''The minute the market comes back, we can inject V.C. cash -- and then you have the hockey stick.''
 Be Realistic About Valuations
 Valuations have fallen sharply -- as much as 40 percent, Mr. Rose estimates. The upside is that the costs of starting a company have fallen, too.
 Yet some entrepreneurs still cling to over-inflated valuations. They get hung up on achieving the highest valuation without regard to how it may undermine their long-term prospects.
 ''The biggest error they make, in my experience, is they focus solely on this round and take money based solely on whether they can fill out the round at the absolute highest valuation,'' said John Huston, who invests with Ohio TechAngels and is chairman of the Angel Capital Association. ''They do not select investors who know the market and are willing to write follow-on checks.''
 Unrealistic valuations will make serious investors roll their eyes. Even if entrepreneurs can get above-market valuations, they run the risk of getting a lower valuation on a subsequent round, a phenomenon known as the ''deadly down round.'' Mr. Huston said inflated valuations are a sign that the company picked the wrong investor and ''took money from neophytes who were only attuned to this round and the promises of grandiose success.''
 Lay Out Milestones
 Mr. Huston warns that entrepreneurs should beware of ''one-check Willy'' -- the angel who finances just one round. Instead, entrepreneurs should look for angels who are willing to discuss long-term plans with milestones and follow-on investments that guide the company ''from here to liquidity.'' 
 The exit market has changed drastically because of a decline in mergers, acquisitions and initial public offerings. As a result, venture capital firms increasingly are concentrating on their existing portfolios and forcing angels to support start-ups for longer. 
 Many angels now expect to write checks for follow-on rounds because they can no longer count on V.C. money being available down the road. John Morris, chairman emeritus of Tech Coast Angels in Southern California, said that angels were now keeping reserves of 200 to 300 percent -- up from zero a few years ago.
 ''That's probably the single biggest difference in angel land,'' said Mr. Morris. ''Angels are learning about reserves and the need to parse out the money in a series of tranches, keeping some dry powder for the next round.''
 Practice Your Pitch
 Get good at pitching the same way major leaguers do: practice, practice, practice. Entrepreneurs should be ready to present a full business plan, a 20-minute PowerPoint, an executive summary and a two-minute elevator pitch (which is what gets you in the door in the first place). Rehearse with anybody who can offer good advice. Go to industry events. Many angel groups hold quick-pitch events where entrepreneurs are invited to make brief presentations.
 Susan Preston, general partner of CalCEF, a clean-energy angel fund in San Francisco and author of two books on angel investing, said entrepreneurs might have to pitch to 50 or 100 investors before they got venture funds: ''In tight times, only the absolute stars rise to the top to receive funding. If they want to have a chance, they've got to be well prepared.''
 Know Where to Look 
 Angels often don't advertise themselves because they don't want to be deluged by suitors. And lists or directories have their limits (although this one from the Angel Capital Education Association can help you get started). ''Look farther, network a little harder,'' said Jeff Sohl, director of the Center for Venture Research. ''Turn over those rocks like you should have been doing all along, rather than taking the easy route of Googling and looking at the first 10 hits. That might have worked in the go-go times of 2000, but it doesn't even get you close now.'' 
 Consider both lone-wolf angels and organized groups. Angels tend to focus on regional companies but increasingly are specializing in niches like medical devices, technology and clean energy. 
 One classic mistake is to look at angels solely as sources of cash. Ms. Preston considers money to be an angel's third most important contribution after expertise and networking. She urges entrepreneurs to scrutinize potential investors: What expertise can they provide? How do their strengths complement your weaknesses? Who can they introduce you to?
 Coached by an Angel
 Murat Ozsu weatheredthe recent sea change in angel investing -- and survived to tell about it.
 Mr. Ozsu had spent more than two years bootstrapping his Long Island-based start-up, innRoad, an online platform that helps independent hotels manage guest bookings. He had moved to a smaller house, borrowed from family and friends, worked out of his son's bedroom and spent many nights laboring into the wee hours so he could coordinate with his software development team in India. He pitched to hundreds of angels before he attracted the interest of a few investors who began coaching him. Just when he had built up a base of customers and was poised to get financing, his plans hit a major snag: the financial collapse of 2008.
 Mr. Ozsu took his plan and ripped it apart. On the advice of his angels, he recalibrated for leaner times and cut his capital requirements in half. ''These are all guys who have run their own companies,'' he said, ''and they've all been through this before. I'd much rather learn from other people's mistakes. I'm going to make my own mistakes, so why make theirs?''
 Ultimately, innRoad won the backing of 15 angels and a New York State investment program and raised $1.2 million -- twice its goal and, surprisingly, the same amount it had planned to seek before the crisis. InnRoad recently did a second investment round of $300,000, which Mr. Ozsu said would sustain the company until it reached breakeven next summer.
 Along the way, he said he learned to think like an investor -- often a difficult step for entrepreneurs who have poured their souls into their companies. ''Trying to raise money is not the goal,'' Mr. Ozsu said. ''The goal is a business plan that makes sense on its own merits. Money is just one of the tools that you need.''
 Quick Tips:
 Bootstrap as long as you can. Finding early ways to get revenue.
 Get to break even quickly and remember that VC financing has gotten harder to obtain.
 Be realistic about valuations. Be coachable.
 Practice pitching and be prepared to make your case to dozens or hundreds of angels. 
 Look for angels who complement your strengths and can help you with more than money. 
 Suggested Readings and Resources:
 An overview of angel investing and a list of resources from Angel Capital Education Foundation. 
 What Entrepreneurs Should Know About Angels from the Angel Capital Education Foundation.(pdf) 
 A directory of angel investors from the Angel Capital Education Association. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (79%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); BUSINESS PLANS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: BAND OF ANGELS LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



810 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Europe Suggests Emissions Limits on Small Trucks

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
The European Commission proposed emissions limits for light trucks and vans Wednesday and said that carmakers would not be permitted to use them to increase production of sport utility vehicles. 
 Stavros Dimas, the European Union environment commissioner, pledged to prevent a repetition of what happened in the United States, where manufacturers used the more generous emissions rules for light trucks to expand construction of a new generation of gas-guzzling passenger vehicles. 
 ''We were careful,'' said Mr. Dimas. His aim, he said, was ''not to permit these loopholes.''
 The European Parliament and E.U. governments have yet to consider the draft legislation, leaving open the possibility for changes to the proposal. 
 Vans and light trucks make up about 11 percent of road vehicle sales in Europe, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association. The measures would drive up the average price of vans by around <4>3,500, or $5,250 by 2020, but fuel savings should offset those extra costs, the commission said.
 The proposal is modeled on recent legislation enacted in Europe that aims to cut car emissions by a fifth on average in 2015, to 130 grams a kilometer. 
 Those curbs on car emissions will gradually take effect from 2012 to 2015.
 Under Mr. Dimas's plan for light trucks and vans, average carbon dioxide emissions for each van would be cut from 2014 to 2016, to 175 grams for every kilometer driven, compared to an E.U. average of around 200 grams now. 
 By 2020, van makers would have to hit a target of 135 grams. Manufacturers that overshoot the target also face fines. 
 Until 2018, the penalty would be <4>5 for the first gram in excess, <4>15 for the second gram, <4>25 for the third gram and <4>120 for every further gram exceeding the limit. From 2019, the first gram over the limit would cost <4>120 a vehicle.
 Carmakers represent one of the most powerful industrial sectors in Europe because of the numbers of workers employed by companies including Fiat, Volkswagen and PSA Peugeot Citroen. 
 France, Germany and Italy -- countries with large auto industries -- already lobbied hard to water down the measures, while carmakers pushed hard for a delay until the E.U. had recovered from the economic crisis.
 ''The level of ambition is not as high as it was initially,'' Mr. Dimas acknowledged. But he said delaying the start of the start date for the system would ''not make much difference in emissions saved.'' 
 Mr. Dimas said the rules would ultimately benefit vehicle makers by helping them gain first-mover advantage in a future, low-carbon economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (95%); MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



811 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: The Return Of the King Of Patchwork

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
CARLOS FALCHI'S life must feel weird to him at times.
 Last Thursday, for instance, after pulling an all-nighter on the Home Shopping Network to pitch coats and bags from a new line called Chi, Mr. Falchi was standing in front of an ornately snowy Christmas tree in the HSN studio in St. Petersburg, Fla. It was around 2:10 p.m., and the sales count on a $99.99 leatherlike coat with a plush collar was up to 16,011. A woman on the phone was saying, ''You can smell Europe looking at your design.''
 Mr. Falchi, a Brazilian who got his start dressing rockers and jazzmen in 1970s Greenwich Village -- where he still lives with Missy, his wife of 25 years -- mumbled something about his roots.
 Then there are those nights in New York when he and his wife are out at some hip place like Freemans, on the Lower East Side, and they see a young woman at the bar with an old buffalo bag of Mr. Falchi's on her shoulder. 
 Once he said to a girl, ''That's my bag.'' She didn't care for the remark, but then it sank in that this pot-bellied, gray-haired guy with silver bracelets was really him, the designer Carlos Falchi. Maybe in an age of brands and manufactured nostalgia she didn't even think he was real. She called her mother, who bought the bag 30 years before, and put Mr. Falchi on the phone and then closed the celebrity moment with a photo.
 That's how it is with him. One day he's busing tables at Max's Kansas City -- it's 1970 -- and going home to bleach snakeskin in his bathtub on Eighth Street for patchwork pants. Jimi Hendrix is a neighbor. Forty years later, after experiencing just about everything you can imagine -- early success, the implosion of the Japanese economy (''That was a big wham''), the It Bag craze, the loss of his name to another company -- he gets a call from Target. The mass merchandiser wants him to produce a line of bags. They will be available Nov. 1 for two months.
 ''My life has been a chart,'' Mr. Falchi, 65, said not long ago, making an up-and-down motion with a finger. Maybe the weirdest thing about him is that he's still here.
 Target has made a business of tapping high-end designers like Alexander McQueen to do collections at affordable prices. In turn, they receive exposure that dwarfs their sophisticated audiences. 
 Drawing on his squashy, patchwork style, Mr. Falchi produced 10 shapes -- hobos, satchels, totes -- in black, brown and plum shades of faux snakeskin. Prices are $19.99 to $49.99.
 On Thursday, as she watched her husband sell the separate HSN line on television, Ms. Falchi, in the couple's office on West 39th Street, acknowledged Target's expectations. ''It's a high-stakes design competition,'' she said. ''You want to put out your best work. It has to look innovative. Carlos worked very hard on the bags. And Target tends to pick younger designers.''
 Perhaps, despite the synthetic materials used for the Target bags, the appeal is that Mr. Falchi is a craftsman. He is one of the last makers of leather goods in New York. He employs about 60 people on three floors of the building on West 39th, and the bags he makes for stores like Bergdorf Goodman and Saks start from pieces of python, alligator and ostrich, among other skins. Prices for those bags can reach $5,000, though many are around $1,500.
 At a visit to his workrooms in August, multicolor pieces of leather were stacked like poker chips; virtually every scrap is saved and used in patchwork. As Mr. Falchi looked over some crocodile-embossed leather satchels being made for an order, there was a steady tapping of hammers at the worktables.
 Below a faded picture of Miles Davis in a pair of Mr. Falchi's trousers from the '70s was an oblong piece of crocodile. ''That's about $900,'' he said. ''I need almost two skins for a bag, so that's about $1,500 alone in materials.'' In another room, a big, smooth, yellow-pale shoulder bag, pinched at the front with a drawstring and evocative of the 1970s, was hanging from a peg.
 ''That bag was done many moons ago,'' Mr. Falchi said, touching it. ''This is vegetable-tanned leather. You cannot kill that leather.''
 In just about every way, a Falchi bag represents the opposite design aesthetic of an Hermes Kelly bag, though Mr. Falchi says he uses some of the same tanneries as the French house. The most obvious difference -- and it nearly put him out of business a few years ago -- is that a Falchi bag is soft and unstructured. When fashion turned ladylike and accessories became formal, Mr. Falchi tried to make a version of the Kelly.
 ''What a disaster,'' he said. ''I just couldn't do it. The hand wasn't there.''
 When Mr. Falchi began making bags in the '70s -- with a boost from the retail legend Geraldine Stutz of Henri Bendel -- his style, for better or worse, was rough and improvised. It was unsnobbish. Ms. Falchi, who was working in the special events office at Neiman Marcus in Dallas when she met her husband, said: ''When you bought that buffalo leather bag of his, you felt so out there. It was a quiet rebellion of a generation of women who didn't want what their mothers had.''
 Linda Fargo, the fashion director at Bergdorf, said she was struck by the continuity of Mr. Falchi's bags when styles dating to the '70s were displayed last spring in the store's windows. (His vintage bags are now coveted.)
 Another way to look at his bags is that they are not perfect. They don't look as if they have been punched out by the hundreds. That organic quality would diminish, he said, if he made them in Europe or Asia. ''I think the people who work here bring New York with them -- the tension of time, the nervousness, the subway,'' he said. ''All that is in these bags.''
 The Falchis have lived in the West Village for years, and they raised two daughters (Kate, 25, is a designer at the company; Juliet, 23, works at Estee Lauder) before the neighborhood was fashionable. ''They're hippies in the true sense,'' said a friend, the designer Ralph Rucci, adding, ''Missy is the equalizer in the relationship.'' Mr. Falchi agreed: ''She is very grounded. It's that Texas upbringing.''
 As gregarious as Mr. Falchi is -- he helped many designers create their accessories -- he isn't a regular at industry events. ''In order to have a family life, he needs downtime,'' Ms. Falchi said. With a laugh, she added: ''Let's be very clear -- Carlos has burned the candle at both ends. He didn't need a reason to go to Studio 54.''
 Mr. Falchi, whose business generates about $100 million a year in retail sales, would be the first to admit he has made some bad decisions. The worst, he said, was to get involved in the development of a former warehouse in Long Island City, Queens, in the late 1980s, and to overexpand his staff. ''Yeah, I have had some real tough times,'' he said, ''but I had Missy and the kids and some very good workers.'' For a time he also lost the right to his name.
 Such complications probably discouraged investors, said William Sweedler, the chief executive of Windsong Brands, which owns a number of companies, including Caribbean Joe and Sharper Image. Last spring Mr. Sweedler and a group led by Marvin Traub acquired a majority interest in Mr. Falchi's company, with the designer and his wife remaining in charge of the creative decisions.
 ''Everyone in the accessories industry was interested in doing something with Carlos, but the issue was his name was owned by another company,'' said Mr. Sweedler, who reacquired the name. He thinks the company can reach $250 million in retail sales. 
 Part of that effort is to sell an array of products like sweaters and jewelry on HSN. As Mr. Falchi plugged the $99 coat, his wife observed, not really joking at all: ''We're the slow-handbag movement. We're small, we're local and we still make it the way we always did. That's what you preserve.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CRAFT: Carlos Falchi, in his studio, is one of the last makers of leather goods in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
 TIMELESS: Mr. Falchi's faux-snakeskin collage bag, bottom right, available at target.com for $24.99, continues the style he made popular in the 1970s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (75%); CELEBRITIES (70%); CHRISTMAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



812 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: For Equestrians, a Buyer's Market in Horses

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

 BODY:
WHEN Janet Rizzo decided to buy a second horse after her first one was sidelined by an injury, she wanted a mount of comparable ability. She expected to pay a price similar to the $70,000 she spent on her first, 11 years earlier.
 But in this withered economy, Surfer Girl, the 12-year-old chestnut mare she brought home from the InterContinental Sport Horse Auction in Wellington, Fla., in February, cost less than $20,000. This year, Mrs. Rizzo said, she is going back for two or three more.
An increasing number of horse owners have been selling at deeply discounted prices, according to trainers, dealers and riders. One result has been that people looking to buy have new opportunities to acquire decent mounts.
 ''I would have never thought, say, three years ago, that I could go down to Wellington and for an investment of $80,000 walk out with maybe three quality horses,'' said Mrs. Rizzo, who is the auction's sales manager but has to bid to buy horses like everyone else. 
 While there are deals to be had, don't expect to find a Ferrari at a Toyota price -- the top competitive animals, whose prices start in the millions and work their way skyward, are as costly as ever. 
 In the world of hunter-jumpers, prices for what are sometimes known as ''trade horses'' have dropped. These are quality horses but ones that are unlikely to take first place, said John E. Madden, who deals in high-end horses through his company, John E. Madden Sales, with his wife, the Olympic rider Beezie Madden. For these trade horses, he said, ''The prices have fallen through the floor.'' But, he said, ''to get the winner, the price hasn't dropped at all.''
 Wendy Ritter, who trains and sells horses out of Seabreeze Farm in Geneva, Fla., agrees. ''Expensive horses are still expensive,'' she said, adding, ''Horses that are sort of medium and became inflated over the years became a little more realistically priced.''
 This year, when Reily Rieker, 15, was ready to graduate from riding ponies to horses, she found and fell in love with Andricus, a striking dark bay warmblood. Andy, as the 8-year-old horse is called, became a part of the Rieker family in Oviedo, Fla., over the summer when the seller more than halved the asking price, said Reily's father, Mark.
 ''The seller was very motivated to sell, and we took advantage of it,'' said Mr. Rieker, the founder of a construction services firm. ''It was a terrific opportunity for Reily to be able to get a horse. It was a combination of both the lack of track record that the horse had and the adverse conditions of the economy.''
 Industry professionals suspect that prices have dipped because of the precarious financial situation of some horse owners and dealers. Board, training and veterinary expenses can cost thousands of dollars a month, and some are eager to lighten the financial load of horses under their care in a recession. 
 While Surfer Girl's age and record may have contributed to the bargain price Mrs. Rizzo paid, horse dealers like Emil Spadone said price reductions had increased in the last year. ''It's a buyer's market, but at the same time, people aren't going to give them away either,'' says Mr. Spadone, who estimates that some horses are selling from 30 percent to 40 percent less than they would have a year ago. He said he sold 80 to 100 horses annually for prices ranging from $15,000 to $300,000 through his business, Redfield Farms, in Califon, N.J. 
 The astronomical prices (sometimes edging past the half-million dollar mark, for horses that were just above average) that cropped up occasionally in better times, he said, are a thing of the past. ''It was almost as if this economy is almost a bit of a reality check for us, and a correction,'' he said.
 Before Robert Beck, a trainer in Long Valley, N.J., was even sure that one of his clients, a beginner stepping up to own her first horse, definitely wanted to buy a certain mount, he asked the seller, Mr. Spadone, to lop $10,000 off the asking price of $60,000 for the 7-year-old Dutch warmblood. Mr. Spadone readily agreed. Mr. Beck, who estimated he had bought at least 100 horses from Mr. Spadone, said the response might have been different before the recession. 
 Mr. Spadone ''would have held onto him and see what happens,'' Mr. Beck said. ''People are a lot more willing to get it done for a little less money, but to get it done quickly.''
 ''THE buyers are brutal,'' says Jay Matter, also of Wellington, Fla., who has been selling horses for 30 years. He speculates that hard-nosed buyers, not desperate sellers eager to be rid of the financial drain of extra horses, are driving down the prices. Mr. Matter said he had been offered up to 70 percent less than the asking price for a horse, which he said he had rarely seen until this year. 
 But low offers are, in his experience, rarely accepted; even in this economy, sellers still seem to have their limit. ''Do we have people who are down and out and have to sell their horse? Not so much as in the housing market, where your house has been foreclosed,'' said Mr. Matter. 
 Mrs. Rizzo said she thought, ''We're probably reaching the bottom'' of how low horse prices will go, ''if we haven't already reached it already.'' 
 Sellers like Nona Garson, a trainer and former Olympic rider who runs the InterContinental Sport Horse Auction, said that prices had slipped 20 to 25 percent. But while her prices are down since the recession began, the number of sales has dipped only marginally, echoing other sellers' experience of the market.
 Kathy Meyer, a spokeswoman for the United States Equestrian Federation, the governing body for the sport, said that while the United States Hunter Jumper Association, an affiliate of the federation, braced for a drop in membership for the 2009 season, it fell only 1 percent from previous years. 
 That the numbers held could be an indication that those in the competitive horse-riding demographic have been relatively insulated from the nation's economic woes, and that prices are unlikely to move further. Others see something else keeping horse prices from a complete free fall. 
 ''This is a luxury item that can get cut,'' Mr. Madden said. ''But strangely enough, I've seen people losing their houses but they won't sell their daughter's horse, because it very much has to do with quality of life.
 ''I think that is a funny thing that guides the business.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BARGAINS IN THE BARN: Nona Garson, above, of the Ridge Farm in Tewksbury, N.J., leading Surfer Girl, a chestnut mare the owner purchased for less than $20,000 in February. Josh Young, left, a rider and trainer, with Patrick, a pony for sale at the farm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (92%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ANIMALS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009



813 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: Running Scared

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
A YEAR after the bursting of the housing, credit and commodities bubbles, Erik Davidson of Wells Fargo Private Bank is worried. He said he thought a new bubble had emerged, this time in something seemingly benign: cash. 
 ''We see, and benefit, from this tsunami of deposits,'' said Mr. Davidson, the bank's managing director for investments for the western United States. ''It's great for the bank, but at a certain point you see this fixated look in people's eyes and realize this is a cash bubble.''
The idea of a cash bubble may sound ludicrous. Why wouldn't putting your money into something as secure as certificates of deposit or Treasury bills be a good thing? In the short term, yes, it is. But people who stick with cash will find themselves unable to regain what they lost, Mr. Davidson said. 
 ''If your portfolio was down 33 percent, you need a 50 percent increase to get back to even,'' he said. If all your investments were in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which went down 57 percent, ''you need a 132 percent return to get out of the hole,'' he said. Returns on cash typically yield 2 percent or less. 
 Investors are so wary of another bust that they are taking extraordinary steps to try to prevent getting caught in one. A cash bubble, and the emerging gold bubble, Mr. Davidson said, are really fear bubbles. The areas in which these fear bubbles are rising show just how scared investors remain: 
 TRUST For many investors, faith in a diversified portfolio burst with the bubble. 
 Nancy Rooney, head of Northeast investment business for the J. P. Morgan private wealth management unit, said she spent the early part of the year coaxing clients into the most secure bonds. Now she is trying to convince them that the six-month run-up in the stock market is not another bubble waiting to burst. 
 ''They're so panicked because they lost some money, and now they wonder how can they possibly get in,'' she said. ''You have to gradually put some risk back in portfolios.''
 To allay their concerns, she advocates choosing managers who will find the better-quality investments within a sector. But she is also talking to clients about using structured notes, a fairly simple derivative, to mitigate the risk of another bust. In return for forgoing part of the potential gain, a limit is set on how far a stock can fall. 
 ''If I'm concerned about the markets, if my strategic view is we could see some rocky road ahead, there is no exchange-traded fund, no manager who plays to that view, so I have to craft something myself,'' Ms. Rooney said. ''People equate derivatives with risk, but the reason we're creating these structured notes is to take risk off the table.''
 INSTITUTIONAL COLLAPSE Fear of being wiped out by another bust does have its benefits: some previously blase people are reconsidering such seemingly safe havens as company-sponsored deferred compensation plans. For years, executives piled money into these plans, figuring they would withdraw it when they retired and were in a lower tax bracket. The only risk was if the company went bankrupt, which would leave the employee as an unsecured creditor.
 ''You can't say what are the odds of that happening now, because everything happened last year,'' said Joseph Spada, managing director at Summit Financial Resources, an investment adviser in Parsippany, N.J. ''Now I'd rather take the compensation and pay the tax now.'' 
 Since laws limit when the money can be withdrawn, many people have little recourse but to stop adding to existing plans. 
 Annuities were another boom-time product, a popular way for investors to sock away money, comfortable that it would be paid back to them in a steady income stream in retirement. Now there are concerns that insurance companies sold too many, and if an insurer collapsed, its annuity holders would lose much of the money.
 This was driven home this fall, when the share price of the Hartford, a huge underwriter of annuities, fell to nearly $4 from more than $60. People who had their annuities with the Hartford began worrying about whether it would collapse. 
 Most state insurance funds cover insurance losses to around $500,000. People with annuities greater than that would have faced a loss, Mr. Spada said, so now they are spreading their annuity risk around to several insurers. 
 DECEPTION Many major frauds of the last year would not have been uncovered so soon if the credit bubble had not burst and forced investors to sell assets. That was the undoing of Bernard L. Madoff, Marc S. Dreier and a host of smaller Ponzi schemers. 
 Many large investors are now taking more aggressive steps to safeguard their money. Enter Elizabeth Prial, a managing director at Insite Security. She can tell if you're trying to hide something. 
 A psychologist and former special agent for the F.B.I., she is trained to detect a range of voluntary and involuntary signs that a person is being deceptive by assessing facial action, involuntary microexpressions, body language and more. 
 ''Traditional due diligence is focused on what the client is being told,'' said Ms. Prial, who does similar work for the Department of Defense. ''I'm going to be watching the nonverbal cues.'' 
 Having such a highly trained specialist sitting in on an investment meeting may seem extreme, and it certainly is not cheap: her services cost $10,000 a day. 
 ''Investors are more fearful,'' said Christopher Falkenberg, a former Secret Service agent and the president of Insite. ''They're willing to invest in more proactive measures to reduce the risk than they were before.''
 While the vast majority of people lost money the old-fashioned way -- their portfolios lost value -- the disclosure of serious fraud scared everyone. 
 Kevin Dorwin, a principal at Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough, a wealth management firm in San Francisco, said several potential investors had asked if they could bring in their own auditors. It was a first for this request, but the firm agreed.
 ''Personally, I can't blame them,'' Mr. Dorwin said. But if every new client made the request, he said, the time spent on audits would mean ''there would be no one to manage the money.''
 CREDITORS A select group of people are doing their best to save what they have left from creditors.
 One result is an increased interest in Delaware asset protection trusts, which allow people to shield money from creditors after the assets have been in the trust for four years. 
 When these trusts were created in 1997, doctors, lawyers and accountants were drawn to them because they feared their liability insurance would not cover them fully. Today, people starting hedge funds and private equity firms are interested, said Dan Lindley, president of the Northern Trust Company of Delaware. ''They say, 'I want to put some of my assets into this trust and have that be my rainy day fund if the fund performs badly and investors turn on me,' '' he said. 
 This may be hiding money from creditors, but Delaware law permits it so long as the person was unaware of any claims against him when he set up the trust. 
 Interest is also rising in what Boxwood Strategic Advisors calls its ''troubled borrower's program,'' an outgrowth of the firm's business of advising clients with wealth tied up in a single asset. 
 When loans were easy to get at low interest rates, many wealthy people borrowed against such assets -- restricted stock, for example -- to invest in other assets. When the bubble burst, the collateral went down in value and banks either demanded more or started selling the collateral. Investors found themselves in a bind.
 Boxwood's role is to negotiate a solution. ''Both sides contributed to this,'' said Alec Haverstick II, managing director at Boxwood. ''Should you really have leveraged your liquid assets at 75 percent and invested in illiquid assets? It might have been better at 35 or 40 percent. But the banks allowed this.''
 Mr. Haverstick says he tries to get the two sides working together. ''Isn't this person better off and aren't you better off with this person as a continuing pool of economic activity than as a dead body?'' he asked. 
 BUBBLEHEADS Of course, there will be always be investors who try to time the market. The desire to make back their money trumps their fear of losing more.
 Lewis Altfest, president of Altfest Personal Wealth Management in New York, said he had been inundated with clients wanting to buy ''disaster stocks'' in the belief that they have to go up. He put CIT, A.I.G. and Citibank in this category and said people thought these stocks were unreasonably low and had to rise. 
 He has told clients that CIT, the troubled small-business lender, might not come back until after a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization that would wipe out shareholders. But some clients are undeterred, pointing to Citicorp in the 1990s, when its stock fell to $6 from $50 before rebounding.
 ''There is some validity to their argument, but I wouldn't bank my money on it,'' he said. ''It's a Las Vegas mentality.''
 A corollary to this view is people who own disaster stocks and refuse to sell them. Mr. Dorwin said he had a new client with the bulk of his wealth in a handful of stocks that had all gone down. ''He wanted to wait until the stocks went back up in value before diversifying,'' he said. ''It's like going uninsured until health care reform passes.''
 It took Mr. Dorwin months to persuade the client to sell the losers and reinvest the money more broadly. ''People get very attached to their individual stocks,'' he said. They also get ideas to invest in things that seem great but that they do not fully understand. 
 One example of this is currencies, particularly exotic ones. With the dollar's decline, ''people are coming up to me at parties and saying, 'I don't do stocks anymore; I'm into currencies,' '' Mr. Davidson said. ''Speculating in currencies is riskier than stocks.''
 So, too, is betting everything on emerging Asia. The argument to do so, Mr. Altfest said, goes like this: ''China and India are going to take over the world, so why don't I put all of my money in the fastest-growing area?'' In October 2008, when the view of the region was less sanguine, Mr. Altfest put client money in two Asia funds. One is up nearly 80 percent; the other doubled. Recently he has been invited to the introductions of new Asia funds, he said, and ''that's the sign of overheating. We've cut back our original allocations.''
 In other words, sometimes a little fear of a rapidly inflating asset is a good thing. You may not get all of the upside, but you might be able to avoid having the bubble burst in your face. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOGRAPH BY STOCKBYTE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.F1)
FRAUD DETECTIVES: Elizabeth Prial is a managing director at Insite Security, which investigates the trustworthiness of prospective ventures. A psychologist and former special agent for the F.B.I., she said she watches for nonverbal clues of deception, like certain body language. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
OUTSIDE AUDITORS: Kevin Dorwin, a principal at Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough, a wealth management firm in San Francisco, says some potential investors want to use their own auditors. ''Personally, I can't blame them,'' he says, and his firm agreed to allow an audit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NERVOUS TIMES: Christopher Falkenberg, the president of Insite Security, says investors are taking more action to reduce risk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (76%); BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (62%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



814 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Ford Focuses on Geely As a Buyer of Volvo

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and NICK BUNKLEY. 
Keith Bradsher reported from Hong Kong and Nick Bunkley from Detroit.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company said Wednesday that the preferred bidder for Volvo was a consortium led by the Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, a Chinese conglomerate that has been trying for years to become a global player in the auto business. 
 A deal for Volvo, Ford's Swedish car-making division, would be one of the most prominent advances by a Chinese company into Europe or the United States, and another sign of China's growing economic reach. But any deal would have to overcome a series of obstacles first. 
 Ford, for instance, would have to figure out how to dispose of Volvo without giving away trade secrets, because Ford and Volvo have been sharing technology for a decade. 
 For its part, Zhejiang Geely would have to find financing and master operating an auto manufacturing subsidiary that is bigger than its own, and a continent away. 
 Meyrick Cox, managing director of the Rothschild bank in London, who is advising Geely on its bid for Volvo, said those issues could be overcome but that it would take ''months, not weeks.''
 ''This is like selling a room of your house,'' he said, referring to the process of disentangling Volvo from the rest of Ford. ''You've got a lot of extraction work to do.''
 He said the companies would most likely draw on Ford's 2008 deal to sell Jaguar and Land Rover to Tata Motors of India.
 Mr. Cox said that Geely's ability to finance the purchase was ''certainly not an issue,'' saying that Ford would not have opened talks if Geely's ability to finance the acquisition was in doubt.
 But Swedish labor leaders and politicians could come out against the deal. (Concerns raised by German leaders helped block Beijing Automotive Industry Holding from buying General Motors' Opel unit earlier this year.) 
 ''The Swedish government and unions have been very supportive,'' Mr. Cox said. ''There's no reason for Sweden to have any objection to this. Volvo will have an owner in the largest car market in the world that will give them better access there than anyone else can.''
 Zhejiang Geely immediately tried to reassure the Swedes on Wednesday, saying that it would preserve Volvo's existing production, research and development operations, labor agreements and dealer networks. It also pledged to maintain ''an independent management'' at Volvo's current headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden. 
 If Zhejiang Geely can reach an agreement to buy Volvo, it would realize a longtime dream of its founder and chairman, Li Shufu, an entrepreneur from a farming family in Taizhou in east-central China's Zhejiang Province. 
 In a long, wide-ranging interview in Hong Kong six years ago, Mr. Li said that he had already been researching international automotive brands and had been dismayed to find that so many were tightly held by a handful of multinational companies. 
 Mr. Li, whose company was small but growing at the time, said that Ford in particular had more brands than it needed, and that he wished he had a way to reach William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman of the company, to ask him to sell one or more brands to Zhejiang Geely. 
 The company, based in Hangzhou, has grown swiftly since then, as has the Chinese auto industry. China overtook the United States early this year as the world's largest auto market in terms of the number of family vehicles sold -- although Chinese cars tend to be much cheaper than American cars. 
 Zhejiang Geely's majority owned automotive subsidiary, Geely Automobile Holdings, is now China's 11th-largest automaker. But it is the second-largest Chinese automaker -- after BYD -- that is not at least partly state-owned. 
 The proposed structure of a deal with Ford is complicated, two people close to the negotiations said. 
 Zhejiang Geely owns 51 percent of Geely Automobile Holdings, which is publicly traded in Hong Kong. In addition to the auto stake, Zhejiang Geely also owns a motorcycle parts maker, several technical institutes and a hotel complex in southern China. 
 Geely Automobile had publicly assured its minority investors this summer in a letter to the Hong Kong stock exchange that it would not try to buy Volvo. Instead of using Geely Automobile, the privately held parent is making the bid. 
 A deal would greatly increase the company's debt at a time when it is already investing heavily to expand in the Chinese market.
 If successful, Zhejiang Geely would keep Geely Automobile and Volvo as separate automotive subsidiaries, a step that might help address possible concerns in Sweden about the sale of a national symbol to a Chinese company. 
 Having Zhejiang Geely take the lead also makes the deal considerably less transparent. Mr. Li is the controlling shareholder, but few other details are available on the company, which said in a statement that it would depend on unspecified Chinese banks to finance a possible deal. 
 Geely Automobile sold 223,343 cars in China in the first nine months of this year and has only modest exports, mainly to developing countries. By contrast, Volvo sells about 500,000 cars a year around the world -- and Volvo's plush sedans, wagons and sport utility vehicles command several times the price of Geely's economy cars. 
 Volvo has also distinguished itself from Chinese competitors in another area: safety. While Volvo has long been a pioneer in automotive safety, winning frequent five-star ratings for its cars in crash tests, Chinese automakers have struggled to master the science of occupant protection.
 Beijing officials have even urged the domestic industry to be very cautious about exports to industrialized countries until Chinese cars consistently do better on crash tests, which the Chinese government has introduced.
 Ford paid $6 billion in 1999 to buy Volvo; unconfirmed reports have said that Zhejiang Geely could pay $2 billion now for the unit in the currently depressed market for automakers. Ford said it had not made a final decision and had no timetable to conclude the talks. Its chief financial officer, Lewis W. K. Booth, said in a statement that the two companies still had ''much work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers perform a quality check at a Geely auto factory in Ningbo, China. The Zhejiang Geely Holding Group hopes to attract enough financing to buy the Volvo unit of Ford Motor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); AB VOLVO (92%); TATA MOTORS LTD (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); VOLV.B (STO) (92%); VOLV.A (STO) (92%); TTMT (LSE) (54%); TTM (NYSE) (54%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) EAST CHINA (95%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); SWEDEN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



815 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Bonds Provide Buffer if Dollar Declines

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
AMERICAN investors can buy bonds issued by foreign governments that are designed to provide protection against inflation, but strategists say those bonds are really more of a bet against the dollar.
 ''If you are a U.S. dollar-based investor, the currency fluctuations will overwhelm anything you get from inflation indexing'' on the foreign bonds, said Aaron Gurwitz, the head of global investment strategy at Barclays Wealth.
For more than a decade, the United States Treasury has been selling bonds protected from inflation, known as Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, whose coupon payments are based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. Investors primarily concerned about protecting their purchasing power during retirement should own TIPS, Mr. Gurwitz said. 
 Some strategists say that owning the foreign bonds -- individually in a well-rounded bond portfolio, or through an exchange-traded fund -- can be a good way to diversify and add exposure to other currencies.
 Brett Hammond, the chief investment strategist at TIAA-CREF, pointed out that global inflation-protected securities, as these bonds are called, typically perform very differently from other asset classes like stocks and commodities -- and even other types of bonds.
 Owning any type of foreign bonds hedges an individual investor's portfolio against a decline in the dollar and is especially useful if the portfolio has little exposure to other currencies through investments like foreign stocks. This is true, he said, for investors of any age. 
 David Darst, the chief investment strategist for the global wealth management group of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, recommends global inflation-protected securities precisely because they are both a hedge against a decline in the dollar and protection against global inflation.
 ''It is more of a currency play than an inflation play,'' he said. ''But to the degree that inflation picks up with a global economic recovery, then you will be getting two hedges.'' Morgan Stanley projects the dollar will fall to $1.60 against the euro by the end of 2010, down from about $1.50 now. 
 Mr. Darst recommends that individual investors hold 3 percent to 4 percent of their total portfolio in inflation-protected bonds. This allocation could be entirely in TIPS or in a combination of TIPS and global inflation-protected securities, he said, depending on what the investor thought of the dollar. 
 American investors can buy bonds from specific foreign countries through a broker, or investors can own a diverse basket of the bonds by purchasing the SPDR Deutsche Bank International Government Inflation-Protected Bond exchange-traded fund. This fund owns inflation-adjusted bonds from 17 countries, including France, Brazil and South Korea, but not the United States. The bonds are denominated in 14 currencies. At the moment, no comparable traditional mutual fund is available, according to Morningstar.
 Scott Burns, the director of exchange-traded fund analysis for Morningstar, recommends owning both the Deutsche Bank fund and the iShares Barclays TIPS Bond Fund, which only owns American TIPS. 
 He pointed out that a decline in the dollar often coincides with rising inflation. ''If the dollar goes down, the Consumer Price Index generally goes up,'' he said, because the cost of imported goods increases for American consumers.
 For investors who want exposure to foreign currencies but are not interested in inflation-protected bonds, Mr. Burns recommended two funds that own traditional foreign government bonds: the SPDR Barclays Capital International Treasury Bonds fund, which primarily owns bonds issued by developed countries, and the iShares JPMorgan USD Emerging Markets Bond fund. Because inflation has been very low during the recession, many investors have not been focused on inflation-adjusted bonds, which makes it easy to gauge the broad market consensus for inflation: the difference between the interest rates offered for TIPS and for plain Treasury bonds indicates what investors think future inflation will be. At the moment, TIPS prices suggest an average annual inflation rate of 1.6 percent over the next five years and 2.11 percent over the next 10 years.
 If inflation is higher than that over 5 to 10 years, the current TIPS bondholders would get a higher return. If inflation fears return, though, those expectations will probably be priced into the TIPS market.
 Some investment strategists say that makes this a good time to buy inflation-protected bonds -- either TIPS or their foreign counterparts -- precisely because the outlook for inflation is relatively benign. ''You don't want to buy flood insurance when the river is already in your living room,'' Mr. Burns said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); EURO (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK INTERNATIONAL CORP (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009



816 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Ford Says Geely of China Is Preferred Bidder for Volvo

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and NICK BUNKLEY; Keith Bradsher reported from Hong Kong and Nick Bunkley from Detroit.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
-- The Ford Motor Company said Wednesday that the preferred bidder for its Swedish carmaking division, Volvo, was a consortium led by the Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, a conglomerate that includes the 11th-largest Chinese automaker. Zhejiang Geely has been trying for years to become a global competitor. 
 Any deal faces a long series of possible obstacles. Ford and Volvo have been sharing technology for a decade, so Ford faces a tricky challenge in disposing of the unit without losing technical secrets. Zhejiang Geely would have to figure out how to finance and operate an auto manufacturing subsidiary that is bigger than its own and a continent away.
 Swedish labor leaders and politicians could also come out against the deal. Concerns raised by German leaders helped block Beijing Automotive Industry Holding from buying General Motors' Opel unit earlier this year. 
 Zhejiang Geely immediately tried to reassure the Swedes, saying that it would preserve Volvo's existing production, research and development operations, labor agreements and dealer networks. It also pledged to maintain ''an independent management'' at Volvo's current headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden. 
 If Zhejiang Geely can reach an agreement to buy Volvo, it would realize a longtime dream of its founder and chairman, Li Shufu, an entrepreneur from a farming family in Taizhou in east-central China's Zhejiang province. 
 In a long, wide-ranging interview in Hong Kong six years ago, Mr. Li said that he had already been researching who owned which international automotive brands. He had been dismayed to find that so many were tightly held by a handful of multinationals. 
 Mr. Li, whose company was small but growing at the time, said that Ford in particular had more brands than it needed, and that he wished he had a way to reach William C. Ford Jr., the chairman of the company, to ask him to sell one or more brands to Zhejiang Geely. 
 The company, headquartered in Hangzhou, and the Chinese auto industry have grown swiftly since then. China overtook the United States early this year as the world's largest auto market in terms of the number of family vehicles sold -- although Chinese cars tend to be much cheaper than American cars. 
 Zhejiang Geely's majority-owned automotive subsidiary, Geely Automobile Holdings, is now China's 11th-largest automaker. But it is the second-largest Chinese automaker, after BYD, that is not at least partly state-owned. 
 The proposed structure of a deal now with Ford is complicated, two people close to the negotiations said. 
 Zhejiang Geely owns 51 percent of Geely Automobile Holdings, which is publicly traded in Hong Kong. In addition to the auto stake, Zhejiang Geely also owns a motorcycle parts maker, several technical institutes and a hotel complex in southern China. 
 Geely Automobile had publicly assured its minority investors this summer in a letter to the Hong Kong stock exchange that it would not try to buy Volvo. Such a deal would greatly increase its debt at a time when the automaker is already investing heavily to expand in the Chinese market.
 Instead of using Geely Automobile to make a bid for Volvo, the privately held parent is making the bid. If successful, Zhejiang Geely would keep Geely Automobile and Volvo as separate automotive subsidiaries, a step that might help address possible concerns in Sweden about the sale of a national icon to a Chinese company. 
 Mr. Li said in a statement on Wednesday night that a possible deal to buy Volvo ''is an important strategic step for Geely, signaling our commitment to Volvo's presence in more than 100 markets around the world and building on our strengths in the Chinese car industry.'' 
 Having Zhejiang Geely take the lead also makes the deal considerably less transparent. Mr. Li is the controlling shareholder, but few other details are available on the company, which said in a statement that it would depend on unspecified Chinese banks to finance a possible deal. 
 Geely Automobile sold 223,343 cars in China in the first nine months of this year and has only modest exports, mainly to developing countries. By contrast, Volvo sells about 500,000 cars a year around the world -- and Volvo's plush sedans, wagons and sport utility vehicles command several times the price of Geely's economy cars. 
 Ford paid $6 billion in 1999 to buy Volvo; unconfirmed reports have said that Zhejiang Geely could pay $2 billion now for the unit in the currently depressed market for automakers. 
 Geely would not be the first Chinese company to venture into the United States auto market. General Motors has already agreed to sell its Hummer division to Sichuan Tengzhong, a heavy machinery manufacturer in western China, although that deal is still awaiting final approval by Chinese regulators. But while Hummer sport utility vehicles are much larger than Volvo cars, the Volvo firm is far bigger than Hummer, which mainly sells in the United States and had peak sales in the American market of 71,524 in 2006.
 Regardless of the economics of a possible Geely deal for Volvo, the negotiations could prove politically indispensable for Mr. Li. The Chinese government has been talking for years about the possibility of forcing a consolidation of dozens of Chinese automakers into perhaps six or eight large manufacturers.
 Geely's lack of state ownership would probably put it at a disadvantage in any such consolidation, as would its smaller size compared to many of the state-owned giants like First Auto Works that are in alliances with companies like Volkswagen and General Motors. But a complex international alliance with Volvo would make it much harder for Beijing officials to push Zhejiang Geely into selling its automobile unit to a bigger rival.
 Geely Automobile has already done one international deal. It purchased 23 percent of Manganese Bronze of Britain two years ago, and set up a joint venture with it to make the famous boxy London taxis in Shanghai for markets around the world.
 A deal with Geely would complete Ford's plans to sell off its European brands to raise money and focus on its core operations. Ford sold Jaguar and Land Rover to an Indian company, Tata Motors, in 2008, and Aston Martin to an investment group in 2007.
 Ford said it had not made a final decision and had no timetable to conclude the talks. Its chief financial officer, Lewis I. Booth, said in a statement that the two companies still had ''much work'' to complete in their discussions.
 ''Ford's objective in our discussions with Geely is to secure an agreement that is in the best interests of all the parties,'' Mr. Booth said.
 ''Any prospective sale would have to ensure that Volvo has the resources, including the capital investment, necessary to further strengthen the business and build its global franchise, while enabling Ford to continue to focus on and implement our core One Ford strategy,'' he said. ''Ford believes Geely has the potential to be a responsible future owner of Volvo and to take the business forward while preserving its core values and the independence of the Swedish brand.''
 Ford began trying to sell Volvo in December, after the United States new-vehicle market began a historic slump and the company decided to concentrate on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury as it tries to return to profitability by 2011. Ford, which was the only Detroit automaker to avoid bankruptcy this year, also owns 13 percent of the Japanese carmaker Mazda, down from the 33.4 percent share it held until 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (70%); FAMILY (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); AB VOLVO (92%); GEELY AUTOMOBILE HOLDINGS LTD (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); VOLV.B (STO) (92%); VOLV.A (STO) (92%); 0175 (HKSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%) EAST CHINA (96%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



817 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Despite Downturn, Bold Moves and New Techniques

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR some time, the advertising industry seemed ready to write off the fourth quarter, convinced that marketers could not wait to close the books on an annus horribilis. Now, there appears to be hope that things have stopped getting worse -- but are they starting to get better?
 ''Client sentiment has stabilized, but remains cautious,'' Michael I. Roth, chairman and chief executive at the Interpublic Group of Companies, the giant agency holding company, said on Wednesday. 
Among the signs of improvement, or at least a bottoming out, are reports in trade publications like Advertising Age that demand for commercial time on television networks is increasing, even if slightly.
 And Maurice Levy, chief executive at another giant agency company, the Publicis Groupe, predicted on Tuesday that ''the advertising market is starting its recovery'' and Publicis would begin to see organic revenue growth in the second half of 2010.
 In another indication that the worst may be in the rear-view mirror, some well-known executives are taking the risk of opening agencies at a time when many established shops are struggling. One new agency, called Victors and Spoils, is being started by partners who include two former senior managers at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, owned by MDC Partners.
 Another is in the form of a New York office for a British agency, Beattie McGuinness Bungay, which is expanding outside London for the first time. The office, staffed with Americans, has its first client, Samsung.
 ''There's a real appetite among clients for ideas,'' said Brett Shevack, who opened a consultancy, the Brand Initiatives Group, early this year after serving as vice chairman for brand initiatives at BBDO New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.
 ''A lot of people are talking about the advertising agency industry, whether the model is dead or alive,'' Mr. Shevack said. ''What's important is to lose the mentality of 'agency of record' and adopt the mentality of 'catalyst of record' '' -- in other words, serve marketers as a force for change rather than as a supplier of the status quo.
 That is motivating the founders of Victors and Spoils, who are opening their agency in Boulder, Colo., with a goal of specializing in a field relatively new for Madison Avenue: crowdsourcing. The term refers to open innovation, usually online, that relies on the so-called wisdom of crowds to generate ideas collaboratively rather than traditional models based on, say, copywriters and art directors.
 ''There's this real climate of change and openness to something new,'' said Claudia Batten, 35, a former executive at Massive, the video game advertising company, who is chief operating officer at Victors and Spoils. The agency will seek ideas from outside sources, she said, while an internal ''creative department is curating and directing that crowd.''
 Chief creative officer is Evan Fry, 39, who had been a vice president and creative director at the Boulder office of Crispin Porter.
 ''Does the world need another advertising agency?'' Mr. Fry said, then continued: ''No. But it needs a new agency model.''
 ''Crowdsourcing is looked at as a trend du jour,'' Mr. Fry said. ''We want to be the first agency that gets it right.'' 
 He recalled an experiment in crowdsourcing at Crispin Porter -- to create a logo for the motorcycle maker Brammo -- that was deemed a failure because ''we were overwhelmed with entries'' and professional designers criticized the invitation to produce work on spec. 
 The other ex-Crispin Porterite at Victors and Spoils is the chief executive, John Winsor, 50, who had been vice president and executive director for strategy and product innovation there.
 The goal of his new agency is to ''get more people involved in the creative process,'' Mr. Winsor said, but ''not winner-take-all and not free labor,'' citing two common complaints about crowdsourcing competitions.
 (Another agency, Bartle Bogle Hegarty in London, is trying its hand at crowdsourcing, too, through a company named Talenthouse in Mountain View, Calif., that offers creative types a chance to take part in collaborative projects. The companies are teaming up to find graphic artists, photographers and filmmakers to help produce a campaign for a new product, the Ila Dusk personal security alarm. The participants will split $20,000 among them, and the winner will also get an internship at the agency.)
 Beattie McGuinness, which competes against Bartle Bogle in the British ad market, is joining Bartle Bogle in operating a New York office. The Beattie McGuinness office is being led by Clayton Ruebensaal, chief executive, and Neil Powell, chief creative officer.
 ''The intention is to be a locally respected agency,'' said Mr. Ruebensaal, 35, who had most recently been chief executive at Cliff Freeman & Partners in New York. He added that the goal was to make sure that in a couple of years, ''people here say, 'did you know these guys have an agency in London?' ''
 A way to accomplish that, Mr. Ruebensaal said, is by ''being a good partner in this economy'' to marketers that worry about the high cost of advertising.
 ''There are hundreds of agencies in New York, but there's still a desire for something different,'' he added. 
 The first client at the Beattie McGuinness New York office, Samsung, arrived in a roundabout manner. Through an affiliate, Samsung owns a minority interest in Cheil Worldwide, the South Korean agency that bought a 49 percent stake in Beattie McGuinness last December.
 As for additional clients, the office is ''involved in two pitches with household-name brands,'' Mr. Ruebensaal said, declining to identify them.
 The partners at Victors and Spoils are similarly mysterious about their clients. ''We can't say who they are,'' Mr. Winsor said.
 Maybe a crowdsourcing competition could be started to find out their names. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Claudia Batten, John Winsor, middle, and Evan Fry started a new agency, Victors and Spoils.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAUDIA LOPEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WRITERS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); CROWDSOURCING (60%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (68%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%); BBDO NEW YORK (53%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: MAURICE LEVY (58%); MICHAEL I ROTH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



818 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Weak Home Sales Trump Strength in Durable Goods

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Wednesday as investors digested gloomy numbers on sales of new homes and were unmoved by a report that showed a rise in United States durable goods orders.
 New one-family homes sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 402,000 in September, the Commerce Department said, falling short of the 440,000 projected by economists. That was a 3.6 percent decrease from the revised rate for August and the first drop since March. Analysts had expected new-home sales to increase 2.6 percent, encouraged in part by a popular $8,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers. 
 Sales of new homes have implications for construction jobs as well as consumer spending on items like furniture and appliances. 
 Stocks were down all day, but selling accelerated in the final hours of trading. Stocks in energy companies and in companies producing materials like metals and paper goods drove the decreases.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 119.48 points, or 1.21 percent, to close at 9,762.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 20.78 points, or 1.95 percent, to 1,042.63, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 56.48 points, or 2.67 percent, to 2,059.61.
 Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR, a financial advisory firm, said the housing data showed that the recovery would be slow and that housing prices might fall again.
 ''It's still a very dicey environment,'' he said. ''There's still a lot of looming supply out there, particularly in the upper and middle price range.''
 The government said orders for durable goods rose 1 percent in September -- the second increase in the last three months. But while the increase was in line with expectations, orders were down 24.1 percent from a year earlier.
 Durable goods, which include items like refrigerators and planes, offer a window into the health of the manufacturing sector and are an indicator of how busy factories will be in the months ahead. Increases in durable goods orders can lead to more jobs and are considered central to the growth of the economy.
 Some analysts discounted the importance of the durable-goods numbers, saying the increase was largely anticipated. But Cliff Waldman, an economist for the Manufacturers Alliance, an economic research group, said the data suggested manufacturing would be slow to take off again.
 ''It paints a clear picture of a weak-kneed recovery,'' he said. ''There's no aggressive, entrepreneurial, animal-spirits kind of investment.'' 
 Financial stocks were down slightly as news spread that GMAC Financial Services was seeking a third round of bailout financing from the United States government. 
 At the close of Wednesday trading, the price of crude oil had fallen to $77.46 a barrel, from $79.55 on Tuesday. 
 Traders may have been looking ahead to the government's gross domestic product figures, which are scheduled for release on Thursday. Wall Street analysts are expecting an annual growth rate of 3.2 percent, although on Wednesday, Goldman Sachs reduced its projection to 2.7 percent, from 3 percent.
 Overseas, the Nikkei stock average in Japan closed down 1.35 percent at 10,075.05. European markets also tumbled, with the FTSE 100 in Britain shedding 2.32 percent, the DAX in Germany falling 2.46 percent and the CAC 40 in France dropping 2.14 percent.
 The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 8/32, to 101 23/32, while the yield fell to 3.41 percent, from 3.44 percent late Tuesday.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 300-day cash management bills and five-year notes:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EQUITY FINANCING (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



819 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: When Plastic Surgery Calls for a Do-Over

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
NO face-lift stops time, so as aging continues, even a satisfied patient may choose to have another one a decade later. But what if your face-lift never pleased you, not because of complications or monstrous scars, but because of aesthetics pure and simple? Perhaps your first surgeon's technique resulted not only in a tighter jaw line, but also a flat wind-swept cheek and a stretched mouth. Or your nose no longer has an unsightly bump, but now, postsurgery, is asymmetrical.
 These days, there's such a critical mass of plastic surgery patients dissatisfied with their results that many doctors market secondary surgeries, or re-dos. It's not hard to find surgeons' Web sites that describe in detail how an asymmetrical nose job or an unsatisfactory face-lift can be righted. Last month, Dr. Sam T. Hamra, a plastic surgeon in Dallas, published ''The Facelift Letdown: When Results Don't Meet Expectations'' to arm patients with information so they can better articulate their desires to their doctors and avoid postsurgery discontent. 
 No organization tracks how many procedures are done to correct cosmetic work. (Muddying the situation is the fact that some doctors tweak their own work if it falls short of the patient's goals and that some complications call for immediate reoperation, like a hematoma, or a collection of pooled blood, beneath a closed incision.)
 In this still-shaky economy, cosmetic surgery is down, and revisions for unhappy patients are included in that slump. But doctors who do a lot of revision face-lifts and nose jobs (two common redos) say demand for those operations is still strong. 
 Reasons vary, depending on the procedure. Rhinoplasty, for instance, is tricky because surgeons can't control healing or how good the building materials are. Cartilage can be too thick or too flimsy; skin draped over a newly fashioned nose structure might not shrink to the shape the surgeon wants. 
 ''It's a difficult operation with a lot of variables,'' said Dr. James C. Grotting, the editor of the textbook ''Reoperative Aesthetic and Reconstructive Plastic Surgery.'' ''So even in the best of hands, people who only do rhinoplasty,'' he said, there is still ''a revision rate of up to 20 percent.'' Some of the best fix-it nose doctors are sober about the limitations. Dr. Mark B. Constantian, a nose specialist in Nashua, N.H., whose practice is 75 percent revisions, said rhinoplasty is unique in that ''you can lose ground every time.'' With other kinds of plastic surgery, patients ''are not worse off than when they started.'' 
 Some doctors refuse to tackle secondary or tertiary rhinoplasties, and sometimes patients seeking these operations get unfairly labeled as ''a fussy neurotic group,'' Dr. Constantian said. 
 He pinpointed four reasons for dissatisfaction: breathing is worse, which can happen if a doctor doesn't compensate for aesthetic changes; postoperative deformity that patients don't like (perhaps removing a bump leaves the patient's nose crooked); the patient never reached the original goal; and last, the patient got the requested change but now finds it unacceptable. ''After, they feel they lost a familial or ethnic characteristic, and ask, 'Can you do something to put my nose back to what it was?' '' he said. 
 One of Dr. Constantian's revision patients, a nurse in New Hampshire, got her first rhinoplasty in 2004 to fix her nose's too-wide tip and a hanging columella, the tissue on the underside between the nostrils. As the post-operation swelling subsided, ''Everyday I would look and wait for changes,'' said the nurse, who asked to remain anonymous. But the nose tip ''was still wide'' and the columella didn't look ''touched at all.'' She searched on Google for nose specialists and found Dr. Constantian. Today her profile is straight, her columella no longer hangs, and she breathes better. ''My breathing was never a problem until after the first surgery,'' the nurse said. 
 Sometimes earnest miscommunication between patient and doctor is at the heart of the matter. ''What the patient is seeing in their mind is hard to describe to the doctor,'' said Dr. Jack P. Gunter, who devotes 40 percent of his nasal-surgery practice in Dallas to redos. ''Patients will say, 'I just want a little taken off.' How much is a little?'' Other doctors sweet-talk patients into thinking the perfect nose or face-lift is within reach, leading to discontent. ''People are marketing things they cannot achieve,'' Dr. Gunter said.
 These days advertising creates unrealistic expectations, said Dr. Grotting, whose practice is in Birmingham, Ala. The idea that a procedure can be quick, simple, painless, ''all of these catchphrases are heavily marketed to plastic surgery patients,'' he said. 
 When it comes to plastic surgery, Dr. Hamra said, the ''customer is always right.'' A gynecology patient isn't the one to determine if she wishes to spend less money to remove fewer of her uterine fibroids. A plastic surgery patient, however, can choose a minimally invasive face-lift instead of a more complete one, said Dr. Hamra, who favors comprehensive face-lifts that address upper cheeks and foreheads. If one surgeon won't give him what he wants, the patient finds one who will. 
 Celebrity cases of too many face-lifts overshadow a common problem these days: paying thousands for small improvements that don't last. 
 ''In face-lifts, you see undercorrections,'' said Dr. James M. Stuzin, a plastic surgeon who specializes in face-lifts in Miami and does a ''big volume of redos.'' Mini face-lifts, he said, require ''little recovery,'' but have ''little longevity.'' He also cautions that some surgeons who do only occasional face-lifting ''don't reconstruct the internal anatomy, and that has more longevity.''
 In other words, you get what you pay for. ''I'm seeing more people who have gone to clinics where price is a major concern for them going there, and often they are dissatisfied with the result,'' said Dr. Stuzin, a past president of the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. ''Instead of muscle work, they are oversuctioning the neck, so the neck looks skeletal.'' 
 Furthermore, not every plastic surgeon tailors his work to each face, but instead ''do it the same way every day, and that doesn't work for faces,'' said Dr. Mark E. Richards, a plastic surgeon in the Washington, D.C., area. Patients have sought out Dr. Richards for revision face-lifts ever since Linda Tripp announced on TV that he redid her botched face-lift in 2000.
 Other experts caution to be wary of the doctor whose technique is stuck in the dark ages. ''There are still a lot of surgeons who just redrape the skin -- that's it,'' Dr. Grotting said. 
 For decades, doing face-lifts hasn't been about simply pulling the skin toward the ear. At the very least, underlying layers of tissue and fat should be repositioned; some doctors also try to restore the curves and volume lost to aging. 
 Lately, Dr. Richards says that he has found that many of his unhappy patients are missing ''cheek curves.'' Pulling the connective and fatty tissue layers just below the skin ''doesn't make an attractive face,'' he said. ''It just makes a tight face.''
 Surgeons' philosophies vary widely, so it's crucial to meet with a few to ascertain which one will best achieve your goals. Some love a high full cheek or use transplanted fat to fill out that area. Others think a face-lift that doesn't address the eye area is incomplete. And some aim to deliver simply a tight neck and a defined jaw line. Dr. Hamra's guide advocates the composite face-lift, a fairly aggressive surgery that also addresses hollow eyes and lifts cheeks vertically. (If readers can get past the book's dollops of self-promotion, its descriptions of post face-lift issues prove useful.)
 Dr. Constantian, for his part, wrote a new textbook ''Rhinoplasty: Craft and Magic'' because he feels the ''basic ideas of how to fix a nose aren't correct.'' Two misconceptions get surgeons started on the wrong foot, he said. First, the mistaken notion that if a surgeon fashions a good-looking skeletal shape, skin draped over it will ''take on the nose shape.'' 
 Not so. The skin of the lower nose ''won't necessarily shrink to the shape the surgeon wants,'' Dr. Constantian said.
 ''We were taught if you just change one area in the nose, nothing else changes,'' he added. But ''if you reduce the tip cartilage to make it prettier, you can also weaken the ability of the cartilage to support the nostrils,'' he said. So he compensates for that weakness. 
 But some surgeons think impaired breathing is an acceptable trade-off for aesthetic improvement. ''Breathing worse after a rhinoplasty is so common that I've heard surgeons say on panels at meetings that they expect it to happen, they tell their patients it will happen,'' Dr. Constantian said. ''I don't think it should ever happen.'' 
 Dr. Joseph M. Gryskiewicz, the vice president of the Rhinoplasty Society, a nonprofit educational organization for surgeons, wrote in an e-mail message, ''Only a sadist would say breathing compromise is O.K.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROUND ONE: After this patient's first face-lift, the border of her lower eyelid muscle was visible.
REVISED: Dr. Sam T. Hamra got rid of the bulge by raising the muscle mass of the lower eyelid and cheek.
FIRST TRY: A 2004 nose job left this patient's nose bulbous, and affected her breathing.
 RESHAPED: Dr. Mark B. Constantian rebuilt her nose earlier this year, and her breathing improved. (pg.E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (92%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (51%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



820 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Citing Boosts in Market Share and Sales, G.M. Says It Sees Progress

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors executives said Wednesday that October would be the company's third consecutive month of market share gains, proof that consumers were returning to its showrooms after G.M.'s humbling tour through bankruptcy court this summer.
 The company will reveal more about its financial condition this week, when it details how it spent a portion of its $50 billion in federal loans on Delphi, its former parts division, which also recently came out of bankruptcy. 
 G.M.'s improving sales in the United States, which the carmaker said would give it a 21 percent market share in the nation, are an indication that the overall vehicle market is starting to recover after slumping to its lowest point in more than 25 years.
 G.M. forecast this month an annual selling rate for the industry of 10.5 million -- the highest rate posted this year outside the July-to-August period, when the government's cash-for-clunkers program bolstered sales.
 Auto sales in the United States were down 27 percent over all through September. But Michael C. DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief market analyst, said consumer confidence was gradually improving and increasing demand for new vehicles.
 ''We think our industry is in recovery, but we know we're not out of the woods yet,'' he said.
 G.M.'s sales dropped sharply in the months leading up to its Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing on June 1. Even after it emerged from bankruptcy in mid-July, industry surveys showed that consumers remained wary of G.M.'s products.
 Mr. DiGiovanni said that G.M was ''cautiously optimistic'' that it turned a corner in October. Its market share rose for a third consecutive month, and the carmaker will post its first year-over-year monthly sales increase since January 2008.
 Susan Docherty, G.M.'s new head of United States sales, said the company was seeing sales momentum in the four core brands -- Cadillac, Chevrolet, Buick and GMC -- that the company was focusing on. ''Our sales mix is a lot healthier,'' she said. 
 G.M., which is 60 percent owned by American taxpayers, was forced to shed its Saturn, Pontiac, Saab and Hummer brands as a condition of receiving federal aid. A year ago, the four core brands accounted for about 85 percent of G.M.'s overall sales, Mr. DiGiovanni said. But in October, that figure was 95 percent.
 G.M. also spent heavily to advertise its 60-day, money-back guarantee on its models. So far, the program has increased showroom traffic. And of the 142,000 vehicles sold since it began, only four have been returned, Ms. Docherty said. Forty-nine consumers are in the process of bringing their vehicles back.
 Ms. Docherty conceded that G.M. still had far to go to improve its reputation. Its sales incentives remain among the highest in the industry, and only a dozen of its vehicles were judged reliable in a recent Consumer Reports survey.
 ''We are not here to declare victory,'' she said on Wednesday at a sales forum with reporters. ''We're here to talk about progress.''
 Its latest entry in the small crossover-vehicle market, the Chevrolet Equinox, has sold so well that G.M. has only a 10-day supply in its inventory. A 60-day supply is considered ideal by industry standards.
 The company recently moved to add a third shift to its joint venture plant in Canada, which it operates with Suzuki, to increase production of the Equinox and the GMC Terrain.
 The decision was arrived at quickly by G.M. management -- something that would not have happened in the old G.M., Mr. DiGiovanni said.
 The sales forum was part of an effort by G.M. to be more accessible to the news media and the public. Ms. Docherty said she and other executives were spending up to two hours a day answering questions on Web sites and e-mail from consumers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jorge Delgado, right, a sales manager, showed David Ingram a Chevrolet Equinox in Florida last month. The model has sold so well that G.M. has only a 10-day supply in its inventory.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (79%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (53%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



821 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2719 words

HEADLINE: A Stalled Vision: Big Development As City's Future

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER and RAY RIVERA; Charles V. Bagli and Jo Craven McGinty contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Over the past seven years, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has presided over a historic re-envisioning of New York City, one that loosened the reins on development across the boroughs and pushed more than 100 rezoning measures through a City Council that stamped them all into law. 
 His administration poured $16 billion into financing to foster commercial development and affordable housing and created quasi-local organizations to promote its initiatives and blunt neighborhood opposition.
 And when the economy was burning white hot, as it did for several years, the mayor's plan appeared to be bold and forward-looking, a prescient decision to remake portions of the city in order to lure companies, create jobs and increase economic vitality.
 But that vitality is missing in some sections of New York today, where developments spurred in part by easy credit and in part by city initiatives are now stalled or in danger of collapse. 
 No question, the upheaval in the real estate world was primarily caused by a recession that Mr. Bloomberg had no role in starting and no power to stop. But Mr. Bloomberg has campaigned as a business visionary, better suited than most to lead in tough times, and any review of his term needs to confront his embrace of development as a stimulus tool.
 Administration officials say their development initiatives created jobs and housing and revitalized moribund areas, like downtown Jamaica, Queens. Across the city, residential construction doubled under Mr. Bloomberg, to more than 30,000 units a year from 2004 through 2008, before slowing this year.
 Construction spending has also doubled since he took office, reaching a high of $32 billion in 2008, according to the New York City Building Congress. The organization projects a 20 percent drop this year.
 And if the skyline seems little changed despite the rezoning of some 8,400 blocks, the impact can be seen in old, outlying factory neighborhoods where new housing has risen, or in places like Flushing, Queens, and the Bronx, where signature new baseball stadiums were built.
 But things have not gone according to plan in neighborhoods like Downtown Brooklyn, which was rezoned to foster development of new office towers to compete with New Jersey. None have gone up, and other projects, like City Point, a commercial, retail and apartment complex on Fulton Street, have stalled. 
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, who served as Mr. Bloomberg's deputy mayor for economic development, said it was naive to view the initiatives in the short term. 
 ''It's always tempting to sit there and say, 'Here we are, we're at the depth of a recession, and therefore, look at all this stuff, it didn't make sense,' '' he said. ''That is the kind of thinking that has proven time and time again to be completely fallacious when you look at New York City history.'' 
 Ron Shiffman, a former city planning commissioner, said a flaw in the mayor's approach was its failure to do enough to reap public benefits from a real estate industry he had so readily fostered.
 ''He didn't steer the boom,'' Mr. Shiffman said. ''He did not direct it in such a way that it benefited a more diverse set of populations in the city of New York, and more diverse income groups. It was basically developer-driven.''
 Remapping the Future
 The administration's economic development policies started with a simple concept: New York must grow to compete with other cities. 
 Development became the means toward that end. Create new opportunities for developers, the wisdom held, and good things will happen for New York as a whole. Companies will rush to glorious new towers in reinvented neighborhoods, diversifying the city's economy in the process. 
 Many mayors have favored the real estate industry, whose campaign contributions are often generous. Mr. Bloomberg lobbied forcefully for developers even though he did not need their money. 
 ''I think a mistake that mayors have made,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, ''is that they've really only been willing to push projects where they would be around to cut the ribbon to open the project, and what this mayor has done is to take the long-term view.''
 The first obstacle to remaking the city was the lack of available parcels for large-scale development. Rezoning became the solution, Mr. Doctoroff said. He had headed the committee that sought to bring the Olympics to the city and had become familiar with largely undeveloped tracts outside the Manhattan core, like sites along the Brooklyn waterfront.
 ''That sort of became the genesis for the effort,'' he said in a 2007 interview.
 The effort became the most extensive rezoning in modern city history. Sections in all the boroughs were rezoned to boost their development potential. Fallow factory sites were recast as places for housing or office towers as the city confronted the idea that it was no longer a manufacturing center. At the same time, the city reduced allowable densities in many neighborhoods that were troubled by illegal or unpopular development.
 The City Council adopted every rezoning without major revision. So far, one-fifth of the city has been rezoned.
 The development zeal was driven by a projection that the city's population would grow by one million by 2030. 
 The city hired two consulting firms at a cost of more than $1.5 million to explore how the extra people could be accommodated. Drawing from that work, the administration created its vision for the future, known as PlaNYC, which was released by the mayor on Earth Day 2007 and included a host of environmental initiatives, like planting a million trees.
 ''Let's face up to the fact that our population growth is putting our city on a collision course with the environment, which itself is growing more unstable and uncertain,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at the time. ''To accommodate nearly a million more New Yorkers, we are going to have to create hundreds of thousands of new homes.''
 Seeding Progress
 New York City has frequently used money to spur development. Under Mr. Bloomberg, the city drastically increased the low-cost financing it made available to developers, in part because Mr. Doctoroff, a former investment banker, recognized the unrealized potential in some of the city's balance sheets. 
 Most of the infusion cost little or nothing to taxpayers. It came in the form of low-interest loans to developers, with money raised by issuing bonds.
 The Housing Development Corporation, for example, a public benefit corporation intended to foster affordable-housing construction, has issued $8.1 billion in bonds to support development under Mr. Bloomberg, more than triple the total issued during the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
 Another quasi-public agency, the Industrial Development Agency, has authorized more than $6.1 billion in new debt since Mr. Bloomberg took office -- about 50 percent more than during Mr. Giuliani's tenure. The largest pieces of that package helped finance new baseball stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets.
 The figures for both agencies do not include Liberty Bonds, which were part of the 9/11 federal aid package.
 Legally, the city is not responsible for debt incurred by its public benefit corporations, even in the unlikely event that the underlying projects and other financial institutions involved in the bond transactions collapsed. But officials said the city could feel compelled to help bondholders so as to protect the ratings on its other bonds. 
 ''For all practical purposes, if H.D.C. went belly-up, there would be some expectation of the city making good on it,'' said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the city's nonpartisan Independent Budget Office.
 At times, urban planners have questioned whether the Bloomberg administration has gone overboard in offering incentives to developers. The Hudson Yards on the West Side of Manhattan have been looked at successively as a potential Olympic venue, a football stadium and now an urban village. And the city, through a specially created authority, has issued $2.1 billion in debt to pay for the extension of the No. 7 subway line to the area.
 The debt is supposed to be paid from taxes generated by the new development, but if no development occurs, the city could be on the hook for $100 million a year in payments.
 A 2007 report by the New York City Bar Association said the Hudson Yards financing scheme ''bears an eerie resemblance to the development of Battery Park City,'' which nearly defaulted and helped plunge the city into a fiscal crisis in the 1970s. And, it asked, if development of the West Side is inevitable, ''why should costly artificial economic incentives be offered to encourage that development?''
 Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic challenger in next Tuesday's election, Comptroller William C. Thompson, has said the mayor focuses too much on large developments that go to favored builders who receive wasteful subsidies.
 When the new Yankee Stadium came up in Tuesday night's debate, he said: ''This is just another example of a giveaway, of the mayor's giveaway to another one of his developer friends in the city,'' 
 Bloomberg officials say that much of their lending was done to build or preserve 165,000 units of what the administration considers to be affordable housing, an ambitious plan for which the mayor has received many accolades. They point to vastly reinvented areas outside Manhattan's wealthy core, like the Melrose section of the Bronx, where city financing underwrote new housing developments.
 But some of the housing has been for families earning more than $100,000 a year, and some of the income limits expire after 15 years. The Housing Development Corporation has also provided hundreds of millions of dollars in financing that, in the view of advocates for moderately priced housing, subsidized market-rate apartments because the developers enjoyed outsize savings in exchange for a small number of lower-income units. 
 Marc Jahr, president of the corporation, said that nearly half of the 43,000 apartments it has financed through the mayor's affordable housing program had been for people who earned 60 percent or less of the area's median income, or about $46,000 a year for a family of four.
 ''We think that's a good, balanced housing plan,'' he said, ''and one that's important to the neighborhoods and important to the city to sustain over time.'' 
 Some housing advocates say the gain in moderately priced housing units has been offset by the loss of 200,000 apartments that switched back to market rates under state rent-regulation laws that they say Mr. Bloomberg did not push Albany to change.
 ''Everyone will admit that New York City can't build its way out of its affordable housing crisis,'' said Mario Mazzoni, lead organizer at the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a tenants' rights organization. ''If you are talking about building affordable housing, the way they conceive of it is as a massive subsidy to developers.''
 Grass Roots
 Redevelopment can look easy on paper, but there are always neighborhood concerns, even in a place like Willets Point, a 62-acre industrial shanty town of body shops and scrap yards near the Mets' stadium in Queens. The administration viewed it as an area ripe for economic development if the 225 existing businesses could be cleared.
 But such ambitions had flummoxed city planners for decades. No less a builder than Robert Moses had been unable to make room in the area for the 1964 World's Fair.
 Mr. Doctoroff was determined to do better, through a local business group, the Flushing-Willets Point Local Development Corporation, which received half its money from the city. But about half the group's money was spent doing something not allowed under state law: lobbying city officials. The group's lobbying, has led to an investigation by the attorney general's office.
 That investigation has expanded into the activities of the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, which the city helped create in 2006 to help push through development plans following a broad rezoning of the area. 
 The city awarded the group a $6 million three-year no-bid contract. The group raised another $1.1 million in private donations, tax records show. And Mr. Doctoroff installed a top aide, Joe Chan, to run it. The partnership has become a key voice for the development of Downtown Brooklyn, inserting itself, critics say, into the debate over a plan to build a Nets area and high-rises at the Atlantic Yards. It has spent some $200,000 on lobbying expenses. Councilman Lewis A. Fidler complained last year that the partnership was using public funds to promote Bloomberg's congestion-pricing plan.
 Citing the investigation, city officials declined to discuss the Brooklyn group's lobbying, as did Mr. Chan.
 A Dream Falls Short
 For years, Downtown Brooklyn resembled the textbook definition of back-office space. Class B. Schleppy. No buzz. 
 Even after the MetroTech development began to emerge in the 1980s, and with it came major corporations like Chase and KeySpan, the core commercial district excited few people.
 In 2004, sparked by a push from local business leaders, the city rezoned 22 blocks. The new zoning anticipated 4.5 million square feet of office and commercial space that might keep businesses from moving to New Jersey, as well as 1,000 new apartments. There were hopes for 18,500 new office jobs and 8,000 construction jobs.
 Today, much of this future remains unrealized. There are no new office towers. Luxury apartment buildings went up, but many units remain unsold and retail space is unrented, victims of the downturn and a construction glut.
 ''It seems like in a lot of places, the attitude has been like a field of dreams: If you zone it, they will come,'' said Robert Perris, district manager of Brooklyn Community Board 2, which includes the downtown area. ''It's been kind of a mixed bag here.''
 Indeed, companies like Bear Stearns have disappeared. Others, like JPMorgan Chase & Company, have downsized their Brooklyn operations. New condo buildings are cutting prices. Several planned projects are stalled as empty lots. Across the city, officials say, the recession has contributed to the stopping of work at about 450 projects.
 James Whelan, the former head of the Downtown Brooklyn Council, which created the rezoning plan, sees the new residential development, especially along Flatbush Avenue, which developers once ignored, as an early sign of success. ''Is there a commercial office tower built as part of the Downtown Brooklyn plan as we sit here today?'' Mr. Whelan said. ''No. When is it going to be built? It's not clear. But as history shows, development is a long-term issue in New York City.'' 
 A similar predicament is evident in Greenpoint and Williamsburg, two old, industrial waterfront neighborhoods in Brooklyn. A 2005 rezoning set off speculation that sent land prices rising to Manhattan levels. Gleaming glass-and-steel structures went up. Now many of them are nearly empty. Other projects foundered on shaky financing.
 Now the administration is working to rescue struggling projects. The long-stalled City Point development is to get $20 million in recovery bonds. 
 In July, when scores of other new condominiums were not selling, and developers risked default, Mr. Bloomberg and the Council stepped in to announce a $20 million pilot program to buy the empty units and use them as affordable housing.
 ''Private developments that sit vacant or unfinished could have a destabilizing effect on our neighborhoods, but we're not about to let that happen,'' said Mr. Bloomberg. 
 Actually, Mr. Bloomberg most likely fostered some of the real estate speculation with policies that invited development. But even those who say the mayor's development record is mixed credit him for taking a long view.
 ''For good or bad, the rezonings will probably be his most significant development legacy,'' said Jonathan Bowles, director of the Center for an Urban Future, an independent research group. ''They've never got as much attention as the large-scale development projects he was pushing, like the Olympic stadium, but the rezonings are what will ultimately transform a large chunk of the city. Developers will be rebuilding on these for years to come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A LONG WAIT IN BROOKLYN: The stalled City Point project on Fulton Street. The city hopes $20 million in stimulus funds will restart it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EIRINI VOURLOUMIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) GRAPHIC: A CITY REIMAGINED: This map shows the areas that have been rezoned under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. His administration has pushed through more than 100 rezoning proposals, covering one-fifth of the city's area. Mr. Bloomberg has said that about 20 percent of the rezonings were changed to encourage new development in the coming decades
the rest sought to protect the character of the areas. Still in progress, the effort is already the largest redrawing of city zoning maps since 1961. (Source: Department of City Planning)
 DRAWING: An artist's rendering of possible development over the Hudson Yards on Manhattan's West Side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ZONING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); BASEBALL (61%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



822 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: With Money and Attention, Mayor Deprives Rival of Black Clergy's Support

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and MICHAEL BARBARO; Jo Craven McGinty contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, the influential pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, came to a difficult decision, one he had wrestled with all summer. 
 He would not endorse William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller and a longtime friend and ally, for mayor, as he had promised Mr. Thompson last spring. Instead, he would endorse Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 Mr. Thompson was furious at the betrayal. But what he did not know was that Mr. Bloomberg gave a $1 million donation to the church's development corporation -- roughly 10 percent of its annual budget -- with the implicit promise of more to come.
 ''What could I say to a man who was mayor, and was supportive of a lot of programs that are important to me?'' Mr. Butts said in an interview before he endorsed Mr. Bloomberg. 
 In his quest for a third term, Mr. Bloomberg has deprived Mr. Thompson of what many once regarded as his political birthright: the blessings of the city's most powerful black ministers, who together preach to tens of thousands of congregants each week. And to win them over, he has deployed an unusual combination of city money, private philanthropy, political appointments and personal attention, creating a web of ties to black clergy members that is virtually unheard of for a white elected official in New York City.
 Some prominent ministers have been appointed by Mr. Bloomberg to influential city boards and committees. Others have enjoyed the administration's help in buying city property or winning zoning concessions for pet projects. A few of the largest institutions, including Abyssinian and the Greater Allen A.M.E. Cathedral in Jamaica, Queens, have taken in millions of dollars in contracts to provide city services during Mr. Bloomberg's eight years in office.
 Looming over it all is Mr. Bloomberg's dazzling wealth, whether already bestowed -- as in the case of Mr. Butts -- or hoped for down the line.
 ''We have to come to his foundation sooner or later,'' said the Rev. Timothy Birkett, pastor of the Church Alive Community Church in the Bronx, who is backing the mayor this year. ''We hope that he will be receptive.''
 Those who support Mr. Bloomberg say that the mayor has earned their endorsements strictly on the merits of his record in office, especially on education and crime. But some critics say the outpouring of support owes more to the dependence of many black churches on a friendly ear at City Hall.
 ''Some of these endorsements that we see are indicative of a faith statement by some of our religious leaders,'' said the Rev. Clinton M. Miller, a protege of Mr. Butts and the pastor of Brown Memorial Baptist Church in Brooklyn. ''The statement is, who do I trust more, in terms of how I am going to get my projects done?'' Mr. Miller said. ''The choice is between a municipality and God.''
 Aides to Mr. Bloomberg say that mutual respect, not financial ties, binds the mayor to the clergymen; they point out that some of the churches also received large contracts before Mr. Bloomberg took office. 
 Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott said the relationship ''really goes beyond contracts,'' adding that it is based on ''an ongoing line of communication we have with important individuals who have important constituencies, and we're very proud of that.''
 At moments of racial tension that might have swamped a different white mayor, Mr. Bloomberg has rarely faced the kind of personal criticism from prominent black ministers that wounded his predecessors, like Rudolph W. Giuliani, whom Mr. Butts once publicly branded a racist. 
 That contrast was on display last week when Mr. Bloomberg appeared at a campaign event with Mr. Giuliani, who suggested to a mostly white, Jewish audience in Brooklyn that ''the wrong political leadership'' could return New Yorkers to the days of ''fear of going out at night and walking the streets.''
 Several black elected officials immediately denounced the comments as race-baiting. But no prominent black pastors demanded that the mayor disavow the comments. 
 ''You can pick up the phone and talk to him,'' said the Rev. Conrad B. Tillard, a Brooklyn pastor who endorsed Mr. Bloomberg in 2001 but said he was undecided this year. ''You don't have to talk to him on the steps of City Hall in front of 10,000 people.''
 While Mr. Giuliani seemed at times to relish antagonizing the ministers, Mr. Bloomberg has reached out in highly visible ways. After plainclothes police officers killed Sean Bell, an unarmed black man, Mr. Bloomberg immediately summoned the city's top ministers to City Hall for a meeting and told them the shooting had been ''inexplicable'' and ''unacceptable.'' 
 More than 30 black ministers have publicly endorsed Mr. Bloomberg this year, their exuberant praise a sharp rejoinder to Mr. Thompson's attack on the mayor as a plutocrat with little concern for the working class. Many more remain on the sidelines, where they can do the mayor little harm.
 Officials with the Thompson campaign claim the unofficial support of more than 200 pastors at churches throughout the city. But, strikingly, many of those pastors, the officials say, have told the campaign that they could not risk a public endorsement.
 One campaign official who insisted on anonymity for fear of offending the clergy said: ''Some are cautious because they believe that if they come forward publicly, they will lose opportunities for funding or projects or other help. They see their colleague who says, 'Hey I got this -- you can sit at the king's table, too.' ''
 One clergyman who already sits at Mr. Bloomberg's table is the Rev. A. R. Bernard, pastor of the Christian Cultural Center in Brooklyn, the largest church congregation in the city.
 Since coming into office, the mayor has appointed Mr. Bernard to the board of the city's Economic Development Corporation. In 2006, the administration agreed to sell parts of two streets that had been taken off the city's maps to the Christian Cultural Center. That helped Mr. Bernard assemble a large parcel of land around the church that he plans to use for an ambitious mixed-use project of city-subsidized housing and commercial space. 
 ''You do have to get cooperation from city agencies in order to get things done,'' Mr. Bernard said in an interview. ''I won't ever request favors that aren't being done as part of the normal process -- but it is good to have relationships.''
 The mayor has also been endorsed this year by the Rev. Floyd H. Flake, pastor of the Greater Allen A.M.E. Cathedral.
 With housing projects, bus services and a women's shelter, the cathedral is one of the largest employers in southeast Queens. Since Mr. Bloomberg took office, Allen has received close to $8 million in city contracts. Mr. Bloomberg also appointed Mr. Flake to the city's Commission for Economic Opportunity, which recommended policies to help the poor. 
 Like Mr. Butts, Mr. Flake endorsed Mr. Bloomberg's opponent, Mark Green, in 2001. But in the years since, he has become a major booster and confidant of the mayor.
 ''Everything I have ever called on, his people called right back, and been supportive,'' Mr. Flake said.
 Mr. Flake said he had never accepted a personal contribution for the church from Mr. Bloomberg and dismissed the suggestion that the church's need of city officials' assistance had swayed his endorsement.
 Since taking office, the mayor has met at least 16 times with Mr. Flake and 14 times with Mr. Bernard. But few New Yorkers havebeen courted more assiduously than Mr. Butts, with whom the mayor has met 20 times. After donating $1 million of his own money to Mr. Butts's Abyssinian Development Corporation in 2008, the mayor made another gift this year of several hundred thousand dollars, according to a person with direct knowledge of the gift, who spoke on the condition that he not be named because the gift was supposed to be anonymous. 
 Since Mr. Bloomberg was sworn in, the church and its affiliated nonprofit groups have received at least $7 million in city contracts. None of that, Mr. Butts said, made it any easier to tell Mr. Thompson that he had changed his mind about the endorsement. But he denied that the mayor's philanthropy played a role in his decision. ''If Giuliani had the money Bloomberg had, and spread it around, he still wouldn't get support,'' Mr. Butts said. ''This is not about Bloomberg's money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''What could I say to a man who was mayor, and was supportive of a lot of programs that are important to me?'' The Rev. Calvin O. Butts III Pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Manhattan, which has 4,000 members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''Everything I have ever called on, his people called right back, and been supportive.'' The Rev. Floyd H. Flake Pastor of the Greater Allen A.M.E. Cathedral in Queens, which has 23,000 members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''You do have to get cooperation from city agencies in order to get things done.'' The Rev. A. R. Bernard Pastor of the Christian Cultural Center in Brooklyn, which has 31,600 members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); ZONING (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); CITIES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); MAJOR GIFTS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); BUDGETS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



823 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 UNITED NATIONS CONDEMNS
 U.S. Embargo Against Cuba
 The United Nations General Assembly voted overwhelmingly to condemn the American trade embargo against Cuba, with speeches by the U.S. ambassador and Cuba's foreign minister reflecting how little has changed despite an expected shift under the Obama administration. PAGE A8
 SPREAD OF MAKESHIFT BOMBS 
 American military officers are expressing concern over the spreading use of makeshift bombs beyond the war zones of Iraq and Afghanistan to other countries in the region, as well as in east Asia and South America. PAGE A11
 National
 BAY BRIDGE IS CLOSED AGAIN
 After Section Breaks Loose
 In a frightening near-miss that raised the specter of short-term headaches and questions about its long-term safety, a recently repaired section of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge broke loose in high winds, sending 5,000 pounds of metal flying into commuters heading home in the evening rush. PAGE A14
 MAYOR IS FOUND GUILTY
 Larry Langford, the controversial and flamboyant mayor of Birmingham, Ala., was convicted of multiple counts of bribery in a federal corruption trial in Tuscaloosa. PAGE A17
 NASA Launches Test Rocket A15 
 New York
 COUNTY DEMOCRATS EXPECTED TO DUMP MONSERRATE
 With statewide elections a year away, the Queens Democratic Party will take the unusual step of announcing its support for a primary challenger to embattled State Senator Hiram Monserrate, who was convicted of a misdemeanor assault charge two weeks ago. PAGE A19
 Business
 DESPITE BAILOUTS,
 GMAC Remains Shaky
 Despite two taxpayer-financed bailouts, GMAC, the onetime finance arm of General Motors, is still struggling, even as the Detroit automakers seem to be finding some sort of a footing. As the White House mulls a third infusion of cash, many analysts say that its collapse could deal a devastating blow to the auto industry, its suppliers and employees. PAGE B1
 OBAMA SIGNS DEFENSE BILL
 As President Obama signed a $680 billion defense policy bill, it was clear that he had succeeded in paring back nearly all of the programs and setting a tone of greater restraint than the Pentagon has seen in many years. PAGE B2
 TWO LAW FIRMS MAY MERGE
 Two major international law firms -- Hogan & Hartson, based in Washington, and Lovells, in London -- are in high-level merger talks in a move that would create a behemoth with 2,500 lawyers, according to an individual with knowledge of the discussions. PAGE B2
 Sports
 QUESTIONS REMAIN FOR VICK
 Following His N.F.L. Return
 A month into the Michael Vick experiment, it is still unclear whether he can return to form as the athletic, dynamic runner he was prior to spending more than a year in federal prison for his role in a dogfighting operation. PAGE B13
 FAVRE'S RETURN TO LAMBEAU
 The great guessing game in the Packers' locker room has centered around the reception awaiting Brett Favre when he returns as a Minnesota Viking after 16 seasons in Green Bay before his acrimonious departure more than a year ago. PAGE B13
 Arts
 PIECES OF A POP SPECTACLE
 That Almost Was
 Manohla Dargis writes that death returned Michael Jackson's humanity, and in a curious, tentative way so does the new film ''Michael Jackson's This Is It,'' a rushed and ragged monument to the man. PAGE C1
 Home
 THREE DIFFERENT TAKES
 On Identical Apartments
 Though most apartment buildings are a stack of identical boxes, it is surprising how different those boxes can be on the inside. The owners of three apartments in a high-rise in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, agreed to open their homes and show what they had done to transform them. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 STRONG MARKET REMAINS
 For Plastic Surgery Redos
 In this still-shaky economy, cosmetic surgery is down, but doctors who do a lot of revision face-lifts and nose jobs (two common redos) say demand for those operations is still strong. PAGE E1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BAILOUTS (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BRIBERY (72%); VERDICTS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (69%); MERGERS (68%); WEATHER (68%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (67%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (65%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); RUNNING (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (55%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (94%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



824 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Easing Impact of a Tax Rise

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
IF you make more than $200,000, or $250,000 as a married couple, your income tax rates will almost certainly go up in 14 months. But there are some steps you can take to ease that burden, and if you act in the next two months you could save twice as much.
 That's because the tax cuts sponsored by President George W. Bush lapse at the end of next year. Those cuts will have saved individuals, and cost the government, $2.34 trillion, according to calculations the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan research institute, made for The New York Times. The Bush and Obama administrations have called the center's past calculations reliable. Interest on the money borrowed to finance those tax cuts equals a month worth of income taxes paid to the government by individuals. 
When the Bush cuts expire, the two top tax rates will move up from 33 percent and 35 percent to 36 percent to 39.6 percent. For a couple making $500,000, the added tax will be about $6,000 per year, for a couple making $1 million about $30,000.
 The bite could be less than that for business owners, however. President Obama, on the campaign trail, proposed allowing founders of small businesses to sell their enterprises without owing capital-gains taxes. Congress has yet to act on this idea.
 He also campaigned on the promise that there would be no tax increases on the bottom 98 percent of earners. Earlier this year, President Obama signed a two-year tax break that one of his economic advisers, Austan Goolsbee, said ''included $63 billion for the Making Work Pay Tax Credit, a direct tax cut for 95 percent of workers and the magnitude of just about the largest middle-class tax cut ever.''
 For high-income taxpayers, here are some steps to arrange your affairs to get the most benefit with the least tax when the Bush cuts lapse:
 The first tactic is accelerating income. If you own a business, take out more in salary this year and in 2010, even if it means taking less in 2011. As an employee, if you can arrange more pay in December 2010 and less the next year, then do it if you will be in the top tax bracket in 2011.
 Janine Racanelli, managing director of J. P. Morgan Wealth Advisory Services, said that ''if you will be at least 59 and a half and think you will be drawing down your retirement savings, considering drawing it down now or next year'' instead of waiting until 2011. 
 That will allow you to withdraw less in 2011 when tax rates are higher, Ms. Racanelli said. 
 Delaying major charitable gifts until January 2011 saves on tax. For those in the top tax bracket, every $1,000 donation will cost $46.50 less after-tax if made in January 2011 rather than now through December 2010. Those with multiyear charitable pledges may want to seek an extension of their pledge, which is usually a legally enforceable contract, requiring agreement on any deferral. 
 The most charitably inclined may want to delay their gift, but increase it, in effect giving the extra tax savings to their favorite cause. The after-tax cost of a $1,000 gift at today's top tax rate is the same as a $1,076 gift at the top 2011 tax rate.
 Deferring a tax deduction can also save. If your property tax bill can be paid in January instead of December, then next year a delay may save taxes. One cautionary note on this basic, time-tested strategy of shifting property-tax payments from one year to another: the alternative minimum tax is likely to complicate your tax planning because the vast majority of taxpayers in the mid- to high-six figure income zone fall under the alternative levy. 
 Under this alternative tax, taxpayers lose exemptions for themselves and their dependents, cannot deduct state and local taxes, and lose all miscellaneous deductions and some medical deductions.
 Because of the way the alternative levy works, taking more income this year or next may pull you out of the alternative tax, allowing you to make use of these exemptions and deductions for this year and next. 
 While more of your income is taxable under this alternative system, the highest tax rate under the alternative levy is 28 percent, significantly less than the current 35 percent top rate or the expected 39.6 percent top rate in 2011. Charitable gifts are fully deductible under both the regular and alternative tax systems.
 With tax software, or the advice of a very detailed-oriented tax preparer, you can determine if this difference in tax rates benefits you.
 For those starting a business, or running one that produces large cash surpluses, higher income-tax rates may also change the assumptions about how to organize the business.
 For the past two decades most new small businesses have been set up as partnerships or similar structures in which profits are not taxed directly. Instead, the profits, and losses, flow through to the tax returns of the individual owners.
 In the traditional structure, known as a C Corp, the business is taxed and then individuals owe tax on any dividends.
 But once the two top individual rates rise higher than the 35 percent top rate on corporate profits, the pass-through entity may not be the best choice, noted Bruce Bartlett, a former White House aide in the Reagan administration and author of several books on tax policy.
 ''Generally, the higher up you are in the economic pecking order the more flexibility you have to arrange your affairs to make the form of your income fit the tax rules,'' Mr. Bartlett said. He was referring to the fact that the 400 highest-income taxpayers, whose income averaged $266 million in 2006, paid an effective total federal tax rate of 17 percent, the same as the Tax Policy Center estimated for people making $50,000 to $75,000.
 Bob D. Scharin, a tax lawyer and senior tax analyst at Thomson Reuters, noted that for very small traditionally organized corporations, the tax rate on the first $50,000 of profits is 15 percent and 24 percent on the next $25,000. The rate then jumps to 34 percent for profits up to $10 million and 35 percent above that, with the reduced rates undone for big companies.
 ''If you are the sole owner of a traditional C Corp you may be able to get some advantage from the differences tax rates, but it would be very dependent on the specific facts and circumstances,'' Mr. Scharin said. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: WHERE THE TAX BREAKS WENT: When the tax cuts enacted during the Bush administration expire at the end of next year, they will have saved individuals, and cost the government, $2.34 trillion. (Source: Urban Institute-Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center Microsimulation Model) (pg.F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INCOME TAX (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



825 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Not Running Against Wall St.

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Eric R. Dinallo was once one of Eliot Spitzer's right-hand men. 
 He is credited with dusting off the Martin Act, the sweeping New York state securities law, and devising a way for Mr. Spitzer to use it to prosecute Wall Street corruption and make a national name as state attorney general.
 And it was Mr. Dinallo, as the head of the investor protection bureau in the attorney general's office, who oversaw the case against Henry Blodget and other securities analysts who hyped stocks to curry favor with their firms' investment banking clients.
 So one might expect now that he is running for attorney general himself, Mr. Dinallo, 46, would take up the role as scourge of Wall Street. But along with the obvious problem -- being one of Spitzer's men does not have the cachet it once did -- Mr. Dinallo does not want to be mistaken for the second coming of Mr. Spitzer. 
 He envisions a less combative relationship with Wall Street and thinks that systemic reforms are best handled in Washington. Since declaring his candidacy in August, Mr. Dinallo has won support from some of Mr. Spitzer's most fervent foes, including Richard A. Grasso, the former head of the New York Stock Exchange, and Kenneth G. Langone, a founder of Home Depot who sat on the stock exchange's board. He even expresses reservations about his old boss's case against Mr. Grasso over his lofty pay. 
 ''It would be easy in these times to only rail against the evils that have been, but that would sweep too broadly and do real harm,'' said Mr. Dinallo, a Democrat. ''We don't want to kill Wall Street, but we do want to learn from what happened.''
 Of course, the whole notion of a Democrat running for New York's attorney general next year is complicated, because Andrew M. Cuomo, a highly popular Democrat, already holds the job. Mr. Dinallo is assuming that Mr. Cuomo will run for governor next year to supplant a faltering Gov. David A. Paterson. 
 He says he will abort his campaign if Mr. Cuomo ultimately runs again for attorney general, but in New York political circles a gubernatorial bid is viewed as such a foregone conclusion that more than half a dozen potential candidates are considering following Mr. Dinallo into the race. Mr. Cuomo has been evasive on the topic, even as speculation has intensified since it became known that the White House wanted Mr. Paterson to drop out.
 A changing of the guard would be closely watched. Under Mr. Spitzer and then Mr. Cuomo, the New York attorney general's office has often picked up where the Securities and Exchange Commission did not venture. 
 Few regulators were more despised than Mr. Spitzer -- there were cheers on the New York Stock Exchange when the prostitution scandal broke last year, abruptly ending Mr. Spitzer's term as governor. Mr. Cuomo has had his share of fights, recently battling Bank of America over disclosure about the Merrill Lynch acquisition and clashing with Charles Schwab over how it sold auction-rate securities. 
 But there is a division among state officials over how vigorously New York's attorney general should batter Wall Street. On the one hand, there has been outrage across the country at the enormous bill for the rescue of Wall Street, even as tales of greed, excess and Ponzi schemes have proliferated. On the other hand, New York depends on Wall Street for about a fifth of the state's revenue, and its latest troubles have depleted the state's coffers.
 Mr. Dinallo has been both enforcer and insider. Intense, caffeinated and lawyerly, he grew up in Manhattan until the age of 9, when his family moved to Santa Monica, Calif. His father, Greg, was a writer on TV shows like ''Quincy M.E.'' and ''Knight Rider'' and even wrote an episode involving Bigfoot for ''The Six Million Dollar Man.''
 Mr. Dinallo didn't take to California -- ''I felt like a 45 record being played at 33'' -- and returned east for school: a philosophy degree at Vassar, a master's degree in public policy from Duke and a law degree from New York University. He later worked for the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, prosecuting boiler rooms and bucket shops.
 After more than four years of working in Mr. Spitzer's office of the attorney general, he left in 2003 to work as a corporate lawyer at Morgan Stanley. When Mr. Spitzer was elected governor in 2006, Mr. Dinallo rejoined his old boss, serving as New York's insurance commissioner until last July and leading the state's role in the rescue of the American International Group, the troubled insurer. He now teaches ethics to M.B.A. students at the Stern School of Business at New York University. 
 Mr. Dinallo's work as insurance commissioner won praise from the nation's best-known insurance executive, Warren E. Buffett, who said in an interview, ''I'd definitely give him an A for his performance.'' Mr. Dinallo enlisted Mr. Buffett's help last year to stave off a crisis in the small group of insurers that guarantee hundreds of billions of dollars of bonds sold by states and municipalities.
 ''Some years, the insurance commissioner can relax and play golf and do other things, but this was not a period like that,'' Mr. Buffett said, adding that Mr. Dinallo ''worked with all of the parties in an intelligent way to minimize something that could have been quite disruptive to the system, and he was the main player of the 50 states. He jumped in and took charge in a way that minimized the damage.'' 
 Mr. Dinallo's campaign pitch is that he knows the terrain of the office well, having had a front-row seat during its reinvention, but that he intends to put his own stamp on the job. He would like to reallocate resources to ''focus on consumer -- and investor-based cases that go to people's everyday financial lives -- their phone bills, their credits cards, their mortgages,'' he said. 
 That assumes Washington will take an assertive role in reshaping regulations. 
 ''No one thinks the A.G.'s office is supposed to be the primary regulator for the financial industry in this country, but there are times when it has had to be in that role,'' he said. ''I actually think the S.E.C. and Mary Schapiro have been very active and have posted quite a good number of early actions, but that's not the issue.''
 The issue, he said, is that Congress needs to undo the damage from two pieces of legislation: the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which repealed the Glass-Steagall Act and allowed for mergers of traditional banks with investment banks, and the Commodity Future Modernization Act in 2000, which deregulated the derivatives market. 
 ''They were profound, once-in-a-century missteps'' that ''destroyed our economy,'' Mr. Dinallo said.
 For a Spitzer veteran, he has some unexpected supporters. 
 ''I'm a big fan of Eric's,'' Mr. Grasso said. 
 In the stock analysts case, Mr. Grasso worked with Mr. Dinallo and Mr. Spitzer to negotiate a settlement: 10 major firms paid a total of $1.4 billion and avoided criminal prosecution. 
 ''Eric's got the right experience base, a terrific balance of regulatory approach and a businessman's approach,'' said Mr. Grasso, whose relations with Mr. Spitzer soured after Mr. Dinallo left the office. In 2004, Mr. Spitzer embarked on a suit to recoup Mr. Grasso's $187.5 million pay package, a suit ultimately abandoned by his successor after several adverse court rulings. 
 The Grasso pay case, Mr. Dinallo said, ''does not have the hallmarks'' of a consumer-based case. ''That's pretty much all I would say about it now.''
 Mr. Langone, a fervid Spitzer critic who served on the stock exchange's compensation committee, said, ''Dinallo is a good guy and I have great hope that he understands the significance of a pro-business attitude.'' 
 Few others have so thorough a grounding in the operations of the attorney general's office as Mr. Dinallo.
 ''My relationship with Wall Street has evolved,'' he said. ''Initially, people thought of me as a very aggressive attacker of Wall Street because of the research analyst cases mostly, but then it evolved into someone who was trying to help regulate the markets and get us through the worst financial crisis of our lifetime.''
 ''We have to reform Wall Street,'' he added, ''but not destroy it.'' 
 Mr. Grasso, at least, is sold. 
 ''Maybe he'll want Eliot and I to do a joint commercial for him,'' he said, and then he began a mock TV voiceover -- ''The one thing they agree on.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric R. Dinallo, above, led the investor protection bureau in the attorney general's office of Eliot Spitzer, right.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RIGHT, JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, right, is the current New York attorney general. Eric R. Dinallo, left, said he would abort his campaign if Mr. Cuomo ultimately ran again for attorney general.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARY CONOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); US STATE SECURITIES REGULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); CORRUPTION (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); SCANDALS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); SEX SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (89%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



826 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: With Mayoral Election on Horizon, New Orleans Wants What It Lacks

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
The most noteworthy announcements of the 2010 mayor's race here have so far come from those declining to be part of it.
 Lt. Gov. Mitch Landrieu counted himself out, as did State Representative Karen Carter Peterson. Same for Arnold Fielkow, the president of the City Council; James Carville, who said he would run if the qualifying rules let him; and, naturally, Brad Pitt. 
 A few new candidates have been announced over the past few weeks. But as the reality settles in that on May 3, 2010, somebody other than C. Ray Nagin will be mayor, a question hangs over the city: Why do so many people feel like this is not the race the city needs?
 ''Everyone's just kind of saying, 'Where is it?' '' said Brian J. Brox, a professor of political science at Tulane University. ''Where's the campaign? Where are the serious candidates? Where is everybody?'' 
 Mr. Nagin, who is at the end of his second term, cannot run again. And none of the candidates or potential candidates have galvanized voters or even emerged as an obvious front-runner to handle what promises to be a daunting agenda.
 The new mayor will be taking over a City Hall already mired in scandal and turf wars. He or she will need to negotiate for and effectively manage billions of dollars of storm-related federal assistance coming into the city, a duty that will require both ruthlessness and political savvy. 
 When that money begins running out, as it will in the not-too-distant future, there will most likely still be a recession to deal with. There are also some issues that need addressing in regard to the budget (a projected $68 million shortfall), the Police Department (under several federal investigations), the housing agencies (federal officials are asking questions there, too) and the desperate need for hospitals and clinics.
 The stakes are just as high as they were for the 2006 mayoral election, which residents say had a different feel entirely, coming just months after the city was devastated by the floodwaters following Hurricane Katrina. That race was seen as an inflection point in New Orleans's future, when new leadership could use the disaster as an opportunity to solve many of the city's longstanding problems.
 ''Our expectations were not just too high, they were laughably high,'' said Elliott Stonecipher, a political analyst based in Shreveport, La. 
 Four years after Mr. Nagin won that election by beating Mr. Landrieu in a runoff, Mr. Stonecipher said, those expectations have not been met; crime is high, corruption investigations are rampant and economic development has been sluggish. The disappointment is hardly eased by a slate of candidates that has failed to create much excitement.
 ''I see some legislators; I see some former city officials and/or perennial candidates,'' Mr. Stonecipher said. ''I cannot tell you how different that reality is than where we were in our now-obvious silliness in 2006.''
 It may seem odd for a campaign season that includes the ''Brad Pitt for Mayor'' movement to be deemed comparatively un-silly. 
 Mr. Pitt, an occasional resident -- who, granted, has used his celebrity to the city's benefit by devoting a considerable amount of time and energy here as part of his Make It Right organization -- has laughed the whole thing off. The movement was actually little more than a Facebook page, a few feature articles in the news media and a brisk T-shirt business. (The ''Carl Weathers for Mayor'' movement is, alas for his fans, equally fictional.) 
 But it does tap into a reality about the mood of this election: while New Orleanians say they are looking mainly for a mayor who can get things done, they are also eager for someone they can rally behind.
 Mr. Nagin has not managed to succeed on either count. Just how unpopular he is can be gauged by the campaigns of some of those running to replace him. 
 Edwin R. Murray, a Democratic state senator, is pledging to provide ''leadership for a change.'' James Perry, executive director of the Greater New Orleans Fair Housing Center, took things a step further. He sued the mayor this summer, claiming Mr. Nagin had violated the city charter by bringing in outside lawyers to deal with the federal investigation into City Hall.
 Mr. Nagin is so broadly disliked that his selling point in 2002 -- that he could apply the practical knowledge he learned as a cable company executive to the city's problems -- has become a liability for future candidates. 
 ''I'm not voting for a businessman after Nagin,'' said John Slade, co-host of a local radio show called ''Talking Back and Talking Black,'' who said he voted for Mr. Nagin in 2006. ''If anyone comes around saying, 'I want to run the city like a business,' run. Flee from them.''
 Nonetheless, several of the candidates who have surfaced recently are from the private sector, including John Georges, a multimillionaire businessman who has all but formally announced, and Troy Henry, owner of a management consulting firm, who has enlisted the New Orleans-born actor Wendell Pierce as his campaign manager. 
 Others have acknowledged their interest in running, including Leslie Jacobs, an insurance executive who was a member of the State Board of Elementary and Secondary Education. 
 In addition to testing the burden of a business resume, the election will be another look into the city's complicated racial politics.
 The city has a smaller proportion of black residents now than it did before the hurricane; in 2008, 61 percent of the city was black, compared with 67 percent in 2000. Also, a white majority on the City Council and a white district attorney have made some wonder whether New Orleans will have a white mayor for the first time in more than 30 years. But this is still a mostly black city, and the fact that most of its elected officials, here and in Washington, are not black, could make the prospect of a white mayor even less likely.
 The late start to the campaign season has left many puzzled, but that tardiness is somewhat built into the system. The election process here is a sprint, and seems to have been devised to give voters the greatest number of reasons to forget that it is taking place. 
 Candidates do not have to announce until a qualifying period in early December, in the midst of the holiday season. The citywide primary is then held in early February, in the full reel and stagger of the Mardi Gras season. A runoff, if necessary, is held a month later. 
 The back-loaded timetable is in some ways grounds for hope among voters, and conversations about the race here frequently end with rosy speculation about some surprise development still to come.
 Mr. Landrieu or somebody else who has declared a lack of interest in the race may reconsider, some say. One of the announced candidates may turn out to display hitherto unseen leadership qualities. The most intriguing possibility is the last-minute entry of someone who has not yet been considered. 
 After all, less than three months before winning the 2002 mayoral election, Mr. Nagin was still undeclared -- and most of the city did not even know his name.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the New Orleans mayor's race misstated the name of a radio program co-hosted by John Slade, who said he did not plan to vote for any candidate who is a businessman. It is ''Showtime in the Afternoon'' -- not ''Talking Black and Talking Back,'' which is a slogan for the radio station. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Bayer, a Tulane art professor, started the ''Brad Pitt for Mayor'' campaign as a joke, but the movement soon gained momentum. The actor Carl Weathers's campaign is another charade.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN ZANSLER/THE TIMES PICAYUNE)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL WEATHERS FOR MAYOR)(pg. A16)
 John Georges, center, a multimillionaire businessman, is expected to announce his candidacy for mayor of New Orleans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CORRUPTION (65%); HURRICANES (62%); HOSPITALS (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



827 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Condemns Attack and Hews to Agenda

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER. 
An earlier version of this article misspelled part of Shah Mahmood Qureshi's name.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton came here to tell Pakistanis that the United States sought a relationship built on more than fighting terrorism. Hours after her arrival, the horrific car-bomb attack in Peshawar showed why this will be an uphill battle. 
 Mrs. Clinton condemned the attack in Peshawar, about two hours from Islamabad by car. The bomb tore through a fabric market, killing as many as 101 people, many of them women and children -- groups Mrs. Clinton champions in her travels to other developing countries.
 ''These attacks on innocent people are cowardly; they are not courageous, they are cowardly,'' Mrs. Clinton said, grimly drawing out her pronunciation of cowardly. ''If the people behind these attacks were so sure of their beliefs, let them join the political process.''
 ''They know they are on the losing side of history,'' she said, speaking at a news conference with Pakistan's foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi. ''But they are determined to take as many lives with them as their movement is finally exposed for the nihilistic, empty effort it is.''
 Mrs. Clinton praised the Pakistani military for its campaign against insurgents in South Waziristan, saying: ''I want you to know that this fight is not Pakistan's alone. This is our struggle as well.''
 For his part, Mr. Qureshi sounded a defiant note, saying the bombing would not weaken Pakistan's resolve to combat extremism.
 ''We will not buckle; we will fight you,'' he said, addressing the attackers. ''You think that by attacking innocent people and lives, you will shake our determination. No sir, you will not.''
 Mrs. Clinton went ahead with an announcement planned as the centerpiece of her first day in Islamabad: an American-financed initiative to help Pakistan repair and upgrade its aging power plants. The program consists of six projects, including the repair of 11,000 agricultural pumps for electricity transmission and the upgrading of a hydroelectric plant on the Indus River. The United States is dedicating $125 million for the first phase.
 The initiative, negotiated by the State Department's new energy coordinator, David Goldwyn, is meant to reduce the power failures that afflict Pakistan's major cities. 
 ''Pakistan's energy shortfall poses serious challenges to your economy and to the lives of individual people and businesses,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
 Indeed, power failures regularly plunge millions of people here into darkness. A large part of the problem is that power distribution companies here lose almost a third of the electricity they buy because of mismanagement, customer defaults and decrepit equipment.
 Mrs. Clinton tied the program to a broader American effort to better the lives of ordinary Pakistanis.
 ''For months, families have endured sweltering heat and evenings spent in the dark, without appliances or televisions or computers,'' she said, adding that ''blackouts prompt an increase in crime.''
 ''Without power, some factories and small businesses have closed their doors, which undermines economic growth,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''And America wants to help.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (85%); POWER FAILURES (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); FAMILY (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); POWER PLANTS (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (61%); FABRICS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009



828 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3092 words

HEADLINE: Answers on Tax Questions, Part One

 BODY:
David Cay Johnston answers your questions on taxes.
 Q. What, if anything, is Congress most likely to do regarding the federal estate tax and the step-up basis on estate assets before the scheduled changes on these two matters become effective in 2010?
 -- Jack and Polly Kluttz
 A. President Obama proposed in his federal budget that the estate tax rules for 2009 be extended for 2010. Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, favors a multiyear extension, but last week, Russell Sullivan, staff director for Finance Committee Democrats, told a gathering of tax lawyers in Atlanta that a one-year extension was more likely. Mr. Sullivan said the president could expect a bill on his desk before the end of this year.
 If Congress does that, the first $3.5 million of wealth held at death would continue to be exempt from the estate tax. 
 In theory, a couple can leave twice that much, but the rules Congress has enacted on how assets must be held before, and after, the first spouse dies can make it difficult to capture the full $7 million exemption. 
 Q. What is your best guess as to what the new estate tax rates will be?
 -- DVA
 A. President Obama has proposed retaining the existing rate structure, which is effectively zero up to $3.5 million ($7 million for couples who qualify) and 45 percent above that. 
 Q. I'm a student who worked for three months this summer in New York City, but I reside in North Carolina. Do I need to file state income taxes in both states?
 -- Emily Johnson
 A. The answer to your simple question is complex. 
 First, filing a tax return and paying taxes are not the same. You may be due a refund of some or all of the taxes withheld from your pay, but unless you file in New York, you cannot get any money back. 
 North Carolina requires single residents to file if they make at least $5,500. Generally, you would not owe North Carolina tax on income earned in New York.
 Whether your parents claim you as a dependent on their return adds another wrinkle. 
 The Federation of Tax Administrators, an organization of state and some local tax officials, operates a gateway to state tax Web sites with an interactive map. 
 Q. I understand that the tax cuts will expire in 2010. I think this means that the lower rates will apply to 2010 returns filed in 2011, but not thereafter. Is this correct? Thank you.
 -- Charles Judson
 A. You are correct for the top two tax rates, now 33 percent and 35 percent. They will go up, but only for money earned starting Jan. 1, 2011. 
 The lower tax rates, which range from 10 percent to 28 percent and apply to taxable income up to more than $200,000 for married couples, would remain unchanged if Congress enacts President Obama's proposals, as expected.
 Remember that tax rates apply only to taxable income, which means your total income on the last line of the front page of your Form 1040 tax return minus the exemptions and deductions that, as the tax lawyers say, are granted by the grace of Congress. 
 Q. I own a town home that is not my primary home. Can I give it to one of my sons without any tax consequences? Current value of the dwelling is about $200,000.
 -- Chuck Stees
 A. Chuck, there are always consequences in tax. But you probably will not have to pay any tax.
 You may give $13,000 this year to anyone without incurring a federal gift tax. And you can make gifts up to that amount to as many people as you wish every year.
 The gift does not have to be in cash. It could be in stocks, bonds, cords of wood or part-ownership of your condo.
 If you are married, you and your spouse can give twice that -- a total of $26,000 -- each year. If your son is married, and you are comfortable making gifts to his spouse, you can give twice that -- $52,000 -- a year.
 By making a gift this year and again in January you can quickly give twice as much again, as much as $104,000, free of gift tax. 
 Do make sure this year's gift clears your account before Dec. 31. That means a check must clear your account before the year ends, because Congress does not allow any grace time. 
 Congress also lets you give up to $1 million tax-free during your lifetime, though using this exemption reduces your estate tax exemption by the same amount when you die. That is, if you make a $1 million gift today, your estate tax exemption is reduced to $2.5 million.
 So, assuming your net worth is less than $3.5 million and you expect it to be under that figure when your time runs out, you can give your son the condo with no tax cost. But for gifts of more than the $13,000 ceiling, you must file a gift tax return.
 And don't waste any of that gift tax exemption. If the condo is worth $200,000, give the untaxed amount first and then use up some of your exemption. So if you are married, and your son is single, you could give him a $26,000 share in the condo this year and another $26,000 in January. That would leave $148,000 of value that you would report on a gift tax return, using up part of your $1 million exemption. No tax would be due under this scenario.
 You could also give your shares in the condo over several years until you have transferred full ownership. Just make sure you document everything.
 It is possible to get a discount on the value of these multiyear gifts, but for a deal of this size, I would recommend against it. The cost of advice from lawyers and accountants would be a dead-weight loss if your net worth is under the $3.5 million estate tax exemption. And discounts could prompt an audit, which could mean more bills for advice.
 There are other ways to do this. You could also sell your son the condo and take back a mortgage at 2.9 percent interest, the lowest rate allowed this month under rules set by Congress and administered by the I.R.S.
 The interest would be taxable income to you but tax deductible to your son, provided he has enough deductions to itemize that mortgage interest. And in your will, you can forgive any remaining balance on the mortgage.
 One thing to remember about gifts: the recipient does not get the step up in basis discussed above. Let's assume you paid $10,000 for the condo that is now worth $200,000. When your son sells the condo, he will be liable for taxes on the gain above $10,000. If, however, the condo becomes his primary residence and he lives there long enough -- and Congress leaves the current rules in place -- the first $250,000 of gain ($500,000 for a married couple jointly owning a primary residence) will be exempt from tax.
 Q. One way to pay taxes in 2010 to avoid higher rates in 2011 and beyond is to take advantage of the new opportunity to do Roth Individual Retirement Account conversions without income limits. As I understand it, the converted principle and all future earnings would then be tax-free under current law. I worry, however, that a populist Congress could decide at some future time to tax the earnings for some people, or even -- though it seems grossly unfair -- to tax the principle again when it is withdrawn, which would make the conversion strategy a disaster. How do you rate the risk of this happening?
 Your article assumes that rates won't rise for 2010, but what assurance is there that this will be the case? We've heard lots of talk about surtaxes on high-income people to fund health care, or on large bonuses. Couldn't Congress enact an increase effective in 2010 if it chooses to? How likely is this?
 -- Charlie Brenner
 A. You can sleep without much worry that your Roth will be taxed, but what rates will apply to your other income is a more complex issue.
 Edmund Burke famously wrote in his 1793 letter that ''the revenue of the state is the state.'' Because the first American republic failed in large part over inadequate taxing authority, we give our Congress an almost unlimited power to raise revenue. The very first power the people grant their elected representatives in the Constitution (Article I, Section 8, Clause 1) says, ''The Congress shall have the power to lay, and collect, taxes, imposts and duties. ...''
 That broad grant of power means that taxes and tax rates are inherently political issues, especially since all tax legislation must begin in the House.
 Income tax rates may go up in 2010. They may go up even more in future years. They could also go down. 
 Whether income tax rates are stable, go up or go down will depend on many issues, the most important of which are not obvious. 
 The obvious issues are how much Congress spends, how much debt it is willing to take on (or it can sell) and how much it wants to rely on the income tax rather than other kinds of levies. I calculate that interest on the national debt this year equaled all of the income taxes people paid from January until June 10.
 Less obvious issues are how much Congress will focus on fostering economic growth through time-tested policies of investing tax money in education, infrastructure and scientific research. More growth means more tax revenue. Then there are the myriad and subtle rules that affect whether investments are made in America or offshore, and whether investments are made in wealth-producing activities or mining the tax system, which in turn affect demands for government services and the volume of tax revenue.
 Your question about surtax for health care raises another issue that has received little attention: if universal health care saves money, why are House Democrats talking about raising taxes? 
 The answer is that while the universal health care system of every other modern country costs less than ours and, by many measures, provides superior care, Congress is talking about keeping our peculiar system of employer-based insurance and adding on a parallel insurance system. Most of our economic competitors treat health care as a public service like education, police and fire protection, libraries and parks.
 Tying health care insurance to employment is a relic of World War II tax policies designed to hold down cash wages when the need for military production meant limiting, even rationing, consumer goods like sugar and gasoline. We could spend less money and get more and better care for everyone, but that is a political decision. Evidently the American people favor inefficient spending on health care. Otherwise, they would elect a different Congress.
 America spends 17 percent of its economy on health care, roughly half private spending and half government spending. But since the private spending is tax deductible, and some of that private spending is really tax money paid to government contractors, the taxpayers are already picking up about 75 percent of the total cost. So, as health care costs rise, figure that taxpayers will pick up at least three-quarters of the cost no matter what.
 Q. I earn north of $500,000 as a partner in medical establishment. Can I hire my wife as independent contractor assistant in my home office and pay her about $60,000 a year so she can establish and contribute to her own retirement account? She will have to pay Social Security/Medicare contributions. We file a joint tax return. Is there tax advantage of doing so?
 -- Anonymous
 A. Anonymous, your plan may not be the most tax-wise way to approach this.
 Yes, you can pay your wife. On $60,000 of income, she would incur about $7,500 of Social Security and Medicare taxes. That's because as an independent contractor she has to pay both sides of these taxes (15.3 percent less a deduction for half of that). There is, however, a benefit. Her pay will add to her lifetime earnings and may increase her old-age check from Social Security. But depending on how many years she has worked, and at what income level, the extra tax may or may not result in a bigger benefit than if she just collects the nonworking spousal benefit in old age.
 If you pay your wife, she has to actually do work for you and the compensation has to be reasonable. Otherwise, the money is a tax-free gift. Married couples generally can make unlimited gifts to each other with no tax consequences.
 A spousal I.R.A. may be a better choice, especially next year, when the rules that barred high-income taxpayers from creating Roth I.R.A.s will not be in effect.
 In your case, I would spend some money on advice from an accountant who handles high-income clients with medical practices. 
 Q.Since we'll be taxed as income on our Roth conversions, will that bump in income be counted toward an Alternative Minimum Tax calculation? Can the conversion make a person who was not subject to A.M.T. now subject to it?
 -- Stephen Wyckoff
 A. The short answer is yes.
 The added income you will report by converting your tax-deductible retirement account into a Roth can put you into the Alternative Minimum Tax. It could also (though this is less likely) lift you out of it. The reason is that the regular and alternative systems are not integrated, but they operate like parallel tax universes, and you pay the higher of the two. 
 Q. My husband and I are 61, recently retired and living off savings. We are in the 15 percent federal bracket. We can convert about $70,000 from a traditional I.R.A. to a Roth I.R.A. in 2009 and still be in the 15 percent bracket. This looks like a no-brainer, since tax rates are likely to go up in the future. The increased adjusted gross income, however, greatly affects our medical and miscellaneous itemized deductions, so the effective tax on the conversion is much more than 15 percent. Our financial planner still recommends the conversion and would do so even if we were starting in the 25 percent bracket. I worry, however, about a value-added tax coming down the pike in the future, when we would be using Roth withdrawals to pay for living expenses.
 -- P. L. Callis
 A. Stop! If you convert to a Roth I.R.A., wait until next year because you get to spread the tax bite over two years, 2010 and 2011. 
 As to the risk that Congress will switch to a value-added tax, a form of consumption tax, be sure to read my comments above on our Constitution and taxes. 
 A value-added tax would be inherently unfair to people with Roths, or any savings, unless special rules were put in place for some years, because it would mean double taxation of the same money. 
 In the event we get a wholesale rewriting of our tax system that included a value-added tax, some transition rules are certain. Why? Because otherwise, people with savings would stock up on long-lasting goods (cars, furniture, canned goods) before the switch, which would cause a big temporary increase in demand, followed by a collapse of demand at the start of the new system. 
 Until we shift our national debate about taxes from demonizing them to how to use taxes to build our nation, the chances of a complete makeover of our tax system are about equal to your and my chances of vacationing on Mars.
 Q.We finally sold all our G.M. stock for about $2 a share. How does this affect our income taxes?
 -- Marsha Abbey
 A. Assuming you paid more than $2 per share, you get to record a loss on your income tax return. 
 If you have gains from other stock that you sold this year, you can offset them against the losses. So if you lost $5,000 on G.M. and made $6,000 profit on another stock, you will only owe taxes on $1,000 -- and at the lower rates for capital gains.
 If, however, all you have are losses, Congress limits your deduction to $3,000 per year. So on a $5,000 loss, and with no gains now or in the next few years, you would deduct $3,000 this year and $2,000 next year. 
 Make sure in figuring the cost of your G.M. stock that you count the commissions you paid on the purchase and sale. Also, include in your cost, or basis, any shares bought through dividend reinvestment, or you will understate your basis and get a smaller tax savings than Congress says you are due. 
 Q.We are thinking of converting to Roths. Would it be best to declare the entire conversion in 2010 (which would increase our income in 2010), or spread it between 2011 and 2012 as allowed, or spread it over numerous years?
 -- Jarratt Price
 Q.We are a mid-50s couple with I.R.A.s. We started our own business three years ago. We have enough money to do a Roth I.R.A. this year for both of us. Should we do this, or should we use the money to convert some of our existing I.R.A. to a Roth? Or should we be doing something completely different?
 -- Barbara Stewart
 A. If you convert in 2010, you can spread the tax payments over two years, 2010 and 2011. If this will push you into a much higher tax bracket, it may not be such a good deal -- unless you are years from tapping the savings. It would be a bad deal if the conversion pushes you into the top bracket, 35 percent next year, and if you drop back into the 15 percent bracket in retirement.
 Another approach would be to convert just the amount that will keep you in your current bracket, then make future contributions to a Roth. 
 Starting next year, if your employer allows it or if you have an individual 401(k) because you are self-employed, you can have a Roth even if your income was too high to qualify under the old rules.
 A Roth and a regular retirement plan, invested the same way for the same period of time, will produce the same after-tax income. That is because with a Roth, you pay the tax up front and thus save X minus the tax. With a tax-deferred retirement plan, you save X plus the tax, paying the tax when you withdraw. 
 The Roth offers two advantages. 
 One is that because you paid the tax up front but the maximum you can put aside is the same, you are allowed, in effect, to save more with a Roth. If you are in the top income tax bracket next year and (to make the math simple) the maximum you can save is $20,000, a Roth lets you save $20,000 and pay the tax on top of that. In a tax-deductible plan, you get to save $20,000 counting the up-front tax deduction. 
 The second, and more important, advantage of the Roth is that when you are in your 70s and older, you are not required to withdraw anything. So if you leave some or all of your existing savings in place, you can draw that down first and leave the Roth untouched until later.
 Q. I bought a new car for my son; it is titled in his name. Can I deduct the taxes on my income tax?
 -- George Koch
 A. If you itemize deductions on your income taxes, as about a third of Americans do, you can choose to deduct sales taxes or income taxes that you paid, but not both. Because you bought the car with your money, you can deduct the sales tax.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (92%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MARRIAGE (73%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



829 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: '08 College Enrollment Set Record, Study Says

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Almost 40 percent of the nation's 18- to 24-year-olds in 2008 were enrolled in college, a record number, according to a Pew Research Centerreport released on Thursday. 
 The rise was driven almost entirely by a surge in students attending community colleges.
 ''We have anecdotally got this sense that there's been this college enrollment boom,'' said Richard Fry, a senior research associate at the Pew center who wrote the report, ''but now we've got confirmation, and we know that at least among young adults, the increase seems to be a two-year college phenomenon.'' 
 ''What's behind this,'' Mr. Fry added, ''is that we have the biggest pool of young adults we've ever had who've finished high school.'' 
 The previous record for college enrollment among 18- to 24-year-olds was 38.9 percent in 2005.
 The new report, using data from the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey, found that a record 84.9 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds had completed high school as of October 2008, up a full percentage point from the previous year. 
 The percentage of high school dropouts, meanwhile, has been declining. In October 2008, 9.3 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds had dropped out of school, compared with 10.2 percent in 2007.
 ''The high school completion numbers are somewhat startling, since they fly in the face of the very negative impression people have gotten about dropouts,'' Mr. Fry said. 
 Although solid numbers for this year's college enrollment are not yet available, the Pew report said that early estimates in the Census Bureau's September 2009 Current Population Survey hinted that the record 2008 number might be surpassed.
 The census data on which the report is based has, however, an optimistic skew. Because it includes only the noninstitutionalized civilian population, and since prisoners are especially likely to be high school dropouts, the overall dropout rates among Americans 18 to 24 are probably higher than reported, and college enrollment rates somewhat lower.
 The Census Bureau is expected to release its own analysis of the October 2008 college enrollment data next week. 
 With the recession, which officially began in December 2007, the young adults' steepest drop was in employment. Only 50.4 percent of 16- to 24-year-olds were employed in October 2008, compared with 52.7 percent in 2007. 
 While the year-to-year changes are not huge, the longer-term trends show significant shifts. In 1973, only 24 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds were enrolled in college, only 80.7 had completed high school, and 15.7 had dropped out of high school.
 Enrollment has been rising at two- and four-year colleges alike for decades. And most young adults still prefer four-year colleges, even though they are more expensive. 
 But the increase in the rate of students going to college reflected in the Pew report was attributable almost entirely to increased community-college enrollment. About 3.4 million, or 11.8 percent, of young adults were enrolled at community colleges, up from 3.1 million, or 10.9 percent, in 2007. 
 Enrollment at four-year colleges was essentially flat, at about eight million, or 27.8 percent of young adults, the Pew report said. 
 College enrollment varies by race and ethnicity. Nearly 41 percent of white 18- to 24-year-olds were enrolled in college in 2008, compared with about 32 percent of black young adults and 26 percent of Hispanics in that age group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CENSUS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



830 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: A Street Musician With a Corporate Sponsor

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
IT took 30 years of playing guitar in Grand Central Terminal and on New York City streets, but Luke Ryan finally landed a corporate sponsor.
 Mr. Ryan, 58, usually plays a couple of mornings a week at Grand Central, making him a fixture there, whether commuters notice or not. On Thursday, Mr. Ryan had set up his microphone and speakers in front of where the Times Square shuttles scoot in and out, and there were near constant lines of people heading in both directions. Some people glanced at the source of the sound, some even tugged at their pockets as they passed as though retrieving a dollar, but no one dropped in any change.
 ''Hey, what happened, everyone looks cranky today. Is it a boyfriend? Is it a girlfriend? Is it the economy?'' Mr. Ryan said into his microphone, after finishing a growling version of ''Piano Man.'' ''If you need any help with being poor, ask me. I've been doing it forever.'' 
 His leather vest was coming apart at the seams, and his black T-shirt with a skull on it had seen a few wearings. (He says he likes buying Salvation Army T-shirts because they are cheap and weird, like the one he bought that says 'I was driven wild at David's bar mitzvah.') Mr. Ryan was going to have fun that morning, even if his audience was not.
 ''This is New York. Do not make eye contact with anyone. We're all thugs and murderers,'' Mr. Ryan said to the crowd. That got the attention of a young guy in several layers of sweatshirts and coats, holding onto a baseball cap, who waved and grinned. ''Amen!''
 And the morning seemed to turn a little more profitable. A woman dropped in a dollar, and a guy chewing on a straw, loping toward the train, doubled back to drop in a coin and give Mr. Ryan an approving fist bump. 
 ''Hundreds and hundreds of people have passed me by for years and never dropped a penny in my case,'' Mr. Ryan said in an earlier interview, ''but you try not to focus on that, because right after you start thinking about them, someone will come down and drop a dollar in your case when you're just standing there, scratching your head, because they appreciate what you're doing.'' 
 His legs set wide, Mr. Ryan leaned back against a railing and began picking his next tune. About an hour into his set, Mr. Ryan's guitar case held a littering of dollar bills. (He had put some in himself to help the morning along, he said.) He had patched the guitar case with green and black duct tape and had jammed into it a cardboard sign that read ''Pimp My Case,'' a few of his CDs for sale -- and a sign for Unilever, the multibillion-dollar global consumer product giant.
 Mr. Ryan had found some commercial work.
 Unilever owns Axe, the personal care line that goes after young men using unusual marketing tactics, like taking over a Hamptons club for a summer. To introduce a leather-scented deodorant called Axe Instinct, Axe sought out about 20 street musicians and college bands in several cities, using Craigslist, MySpace and other Web sites. In exchange for an estimated $1,000, Axe asked the musicians to put up ''Axe Instinct'' signs, offer free deodorant samples when they play and, a few times a day, sing a ditty ''Look Good in Leather'' that Axe is using in its commercials. The musicians' stints started in September and run through the end of the year.
 ''Our biggest thing is not about what they look like but the authenticity of them,'' said Jay E. Mathew Jr., marketing director for deodorants at Unilever USA. ''We want people that, this is what they do every day.''
 Asked if it was authentic to have street performers singing a corporate jingle, Mr. Mathew said he thought it was. ''The song itself is a song that was created in 2002 and not something we created for just the ad -- it was an existing, organic type of music. We thought it fit perfectly with the campaign.''
 Mr. Ryan had once sworn never to sell out, after he watched a documentary where Neil Young said the same thing. ''I said, 'Wow, that's a lot of integrity. That's me, too.' Then I realized two things. First is, Neil Young's a millionaire. And second, nobody's ever asked me. So as soon as they asked me, I said, 'Well, why not?' ''
 The song wasn't bad, anyway, he said. And he was no longer able to support himself from subway singing alone. Maybe it was the iPods plugged into people's ears, maybe it was the economy. ''It just seems like people have lost a little bit of the humanity that they had years ago,'' he said.
 Back in the subway station, Mr. Ryan was singing John Prine's ''Paradise'': ''Daddy, won't you take me back to Muhlenberg County, down by the Green River where paradise lay? Well, I'm sorry my son, but you're too late in asking, Mr. Peabody's coal train has hauled it away.''
 A guy with a backpack dropped in a dollar and walked off smiling, and a man in an old-fashioned train conductor's cap carefully placed a brochure in the case as if it were a $20. If people noticed the Axe sign, they didn't say anything or appear to do double-takes. 
 ''You know, when I'm playing in the middle of the subway, I'm noticing how there's so much commercial branding all over the subway now, the stairs have products on it, logos, every single space in the subway is kind of a big commercial now,'' Mr. Ryan said. Maybe the Axe effect was supposed to be subliminal, he shrugged. At least he supported the cause of deodorant use.
 ''If there was more of that stuff going on in the subway, it'd be a better place,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Luke Ryan, who has been a busker for 30 years, at Penn Station. Axe, part of Unilever, pays him to display a promotional sign and regularly sing a song that is part of a new deodorant campaign.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (90%); MUSIC (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); STREET ART (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



831 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Subway Service to Be Disrupted on Manhattan Bridge

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
A $150 million project to replace all of the vertical suspension cables on the 100-year-old Manhattan Bridge will cause sporadic weekend disruptions in subway service and require closings of the bikeway and some traffic lanes for parts of the next four years, city transportation officials said this week. 
 The city's Department of Transportation is preparing to award a contract for the repair work to Skanska, a Swedish company whose American headquarters are in New York. The department notified Skanska last week that its bid, which was just shy of $150 million, was lower than the other four received.
 The contract is one of 14 that make up the final phase of a three-decade effort to rebuild the bridge, which connects Lower Manhattan to Downtown Brooklyn.
 All told, about $830 million has been spent repairing the bridge, which suffered from neglect during the city's financial crisis in the 1970s, said Brian Gill, the chief engineer of Manhattan Bridge reconstruction for the Transportation Department.
 Skanska has said that it will complete the work, which includes replacing the necklaces of lights that illuminate the bridge's outer cables, in three and a half years. Mr. Gill said the city could penalize the company if it did not complete the work on schedule.
 During that period, subway service across the bridge on the B, D, N and Q lines will be suspended on as many as eight weekends, Mr. Gill said. The schedule for those suspensions has not yet been determined, said Seth Solomonow, the department's spokesman. 
 The bikeway on the north side of the bridge will also be closed for as long as eight months during the project, which is expected to begin by early next year and end in mid-2013, Mr. Gill said. 
 Throughout the shutdown of the bikeway, which was closed from October 2006 to August 2007 during a previous phase of the bridge's overhaul, cyclists will share the walkway on the south side of the bridge with pedestrians, he said.
 Mr. Gill said the project's impact on the public would be much less than that of previous phases of the rebuilding. Subway service was disrupted for years in the 1990s, and the bridge's lower roadway was closed for a year, ending in October 2008, he said.
 Starting late this year or early next year, Skanska will replace all 622 suspenders -- cables that attach the bridge's decks to its four main cables -- for the first time in more than 50 years, Mr. Gill said. Workers also will rewrap the main cables, replace the bearings on the eight main trusses, and replace the 168 lights on the outer cables with more energy-efficient ones, he said.
 The current contract is the third major one that Skanska has won for rehabilitation of the Manhattan Bridge since 2000, the company said. It has also done repair work on the Williamsburg, Queensborough and Triborough Bridges and is about to be awarded a contract to repair parts of the Brooklyn Bridge with $30 million in federal stimulus money, according to the city's online stimulus tracker.
 After the cable work is complete, virtually every part of the bridge will have been replaced, except its towers, the main cables and the trusses that support them, Mr. Gill said.
 ''This is the end of the program,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The vertical cables on the Manhattan Bridge will be replaced.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (66%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



832 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
CLASSICAL
 Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music. 
 Opera
 'AIDA' (Monday) For those who prefer opera productions to be grand and traditional, Sonja Frisell's 1988 staging never fails to please. For this revival the Metropolitan Opera has lined up some notable singers. The rich soprano Violeta Urmana sings the title role, with the elegant tenor Richard Margison as Radames, the stylish baritone Carlo Guelfi as Amonasro, and the powerhouse mezzo-soprano Dolora Zajick as Amneris. The Italian conductor Paolo Carignani, who had a strong Met debut last year in ''La Traviata,'' is on the podium. (Through April 3.) At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $20 to $275. (Anthony Tommasini)20091029 
 'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Saturday and Wednesday) Bartlett Sher's breezy new production of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' which was introduced in November, conveys the comic confusions of the story through its fluid staging and a wonderfully abstract set: a matrix of movable doors, staircases and potted orange trees, behind which characters spy on one another. The lustrous and vivacious mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato sings Rosina, and her fans will be eager to see her. This July, while singing the role in a production at Covent Garden in London, she fell and broke her leg and continued on anyway, then performed subsequent performances from a wheelchair. The bright, agile tenor Barry Banks sings Count Almaviva. And the Italian baritone Franco Vassal sings Figaro, the role of his 2005 Met debut. Maurizio Benini, a bel canto specialist, conducts. (Through March 4.) Saturday at 1 p.m.; Wednesday at 8 p.m.; Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $20 to $375. (Tommasini)20091029
 'LA DAMNATION DE FAUST' (Friday and Thursday) The most talked-about element of Robert Lepage's production of Berlioz's ''Damnation de Faust,'' introduced last year, was its stunning use of interactive video. Detailed images -- of grassy fields, fiery hells and more -- morph and change in response to the movements and singing of the cast. For its first revival the Met has lined up an enticing group, with the tenor Ramon Vargas as Faust, the mezzo-soprano Olga Borodina as Marguerite, and the bass-baritone Ildar Abdrazakov as Mephistopheles. James Conlon conducts. (Through Nov. 17.) At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $20 to $375. (Tommasini)20091029
 NEW YORK CITY OPERA: 'AMERICAN VOICES' (Thursday) After a year of wandering, New York City Opera is back in its house, now called the David H. Koch Theater, and it opens its season with a gala concert that begins with Stravinsky's ''Fanfare for a New Theater,'' and includes excepts from works by Bernstein, Stravinsky, Barber, Gershwin, William Bolcom and Osvaldo Golijov. The singers include Measha Brueggergosman, Amy Burton, Joyce Castle, Anna Christy, Joyce DiDonato, Lauren Flanigan, Anthony Dean Griffey, Marc Kudisch, Samuel Ramey and Talise Trevigne, as well as the folk singer and opera composer Rufus Wainwright and dancers from New York City Ballet. At 7 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center , (212) 870-5570, nycopera.com; $12 to $145. (Allan Kozinn)20091029
 Classical Music
 BARGEMUSIC (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday) This floating concert hall has a busy week planned. On Friday and on Sunday the clarinetist Nuno Antunes is joined by the cellist Adrian Daurov and the pianist Olga Vinokur for a program of trios by Brahms, Beethoven and Nino Rota. Between those concerts, the barge offers a Halloween program, with the period-instrument ensemble Artek performing works by Monteverdi, Gesualdo, Purcell, Carissimi, Eccles and others. And on Wednesday the Neolit Ensemble plays music by female composers, among them Tania Leon, Gabriela Frank, Hilary Tann, Victoria Bond, Elisenda Fabregas and Elena Kats-Chernin. Friday, Saturday and Wednesday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn , (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org. Friday and Sunday: $35; $30 for 65+; $15 for students. Saturday: $50. Wednesday: $25; $20 for 65+; $10 for students. (Kozinn)20091029
 BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Monday) James Levine, the music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, was poised to make an artistic statement this season by conducting, for the first time in his career, a complete cycle of the Beethoven symphonies. The performances were to be recorded live as well. But Mr. Levine had to undergo back surgery for a herniated disc. After withdrawing from the first half of the cycle, he has now withdrawn from the entire survey in Boston, including the performance of the Sixth and Seventh Symphonies that the orchestra is presenting at Carnegie Hall on Monday. Lorin Maazel, who could not be more familiar to New Yorkers, will take his place. At 8 p.m., 20091029
 JEANINE DE BIQUE (Tuesday) The young Trinidadian soprano Jeanine de Bique, who graduated from the Manhattan School of Music in 2006, seems to be on a career roll. Currently an artist in residence with the Basel Opera in Switzerland, she will now make her New York recital debut at Merkin Concert Hall as a winner of the Young Concert Artists auditions. Her program includes works by Debussy, Wolf, Mozart, Griffes, Lori Laitman and others. Keun-A Lee is her pianist, and the violinist Daniel Phillips is a special guest. At 7:30 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan , (212) 307-6656, yca.org; $10 to $40. (Tommasini)20091029
 TILL FELLNER (Friday) This stylish young pianist, who has studied with Alfred Brendel, continues his three-year traversal of the Beethoven sonatas. His Apollonian approach is impressive for its structural clarity, poise and poetic playing, although he can sometimes be dispassionate where drama is called for. On Friday Mr. Fellner offers the Sonatas in G (Op. 79), F sharp (Op. 78), D (Op. 28), E minor (Op. 90) and E flat (Op. 7). At 7 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art , (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $45. (Vivien Schweitzer)20091029
 HONG KONG CHINESE ORCHESTRA (Friday) This symphonic ensemble, which uses traditional Chinese instruments in a Western orchestral configuration, performs as part of Carnegie Hall 's vibrant Ancient Paths, Modern Voices festival celebrating Chinese culture. The program includes works written during the last 15 years by composers including Guo Wenjing. Each audience member will be given a hand drum to participate in Cheng Dazhao's ''Yellow River Capriccio.'' At 8 p.m., 20091029
 JUILLIARD QUARTET (Saturday) The Peoples' Symphony Concerts series offers first-rate soloists and ensembles at recession-proof prices at halls around the city. On Saturday the venerable Juilliard Quartet, in which Nick Eanet recently replaced Joel Smirnoff as first violinist, offers Schubert's Quartet No. 13 in A minor, ''Rosamunde''; Bartok's Quartet No. 2; and Beethoven's Quartet No. 16 in F. At 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan , (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $10 and $12. (Schweitzer)20091029
 EMMA KIRKBY (Sunday) When she began performing in the 1970s, this British singer quickly became the heroine of the early-music movement, admired for her pure, boyish soprano. Now that she is 60, her voice is richer and more expressive. On Sunday, with the lutenist Jakob Lindberg (her frequent recording and performing partner), she offers a program called ''Orpheus in England: Dowland and Purcell,'' celebrating the 350th anniversary of Purcell's birth. At 3 p.m., Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, at 73rd Street , (212) 288-8920, mapc.com; $20 and $40. (Schweitzer)20091029
 KRONOS QUARTET (Tuesday) This adventurous quartet and the pipa player Wu Man join forces to perform two large works. The first, Tan Dun's ''Ghost Opera,'' is a prismatic piece that draws on Chinese folk imagery as well as on Bach and Shakespeare. After the intermission the ensemble will give the premiere of ''A Chinese Home,'' a four-movement exploration of Chinese culture conceived by Ms. Wu, David Harrington and Chen Shi-Zheng. At 7:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall , (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $52. (Kozinn)20091029
 MOZARTEUM ORCHESTRA SALZBURG (Sunday) Ivor Bolton leads this ensemble and the cellist Johannes Moser in Schumann's Cello Concerto in A minor; Schubert's Symphony No. 9 in C, ''Great''; and Beethoven's Overture to ''Geschopfe des Prometheus.'' At 5 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center , (212) 671-4050, lincolncenter.org; $60 and $75. (Schweitzer)20091029
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday and Saturday) When the Philharmonic dropped its plan to perform in Havana, once it became clear that its wealthy patrons would not be allowed to tag along, the orchestra quickly scheduled these performances with the pianist Emanuel Ax. Mr. Ax, who gave a lovely account of the Beethoven Fourth Concerto a few weeks ago, returns to Beethoven, this time for the Concerto No. 3. And Alan Gilbert leads the players in Beethoven's ''Egmont'' Overture, Bernstein's Symphonic Dances from ''West Side Story'' and Falla's ''Three-Cornered Hat'' Suite No. 2. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center , (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $31 to $109. (Kozinn)20091029
 ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Wednesday) As part of Carnegie Hall 's Ancient Paths Modern Voices festival, David Robertson leads the St. Louis Symphony in two contemporary Chinese works -- Tan Dun's ''Water Concerto,'' with Colin Currie as the percussion soloist, and Bright Sheng's ''Colors of Crimson'' -- and two Western works inspired by China, Stravinsky's ''Chant du Rossignol'' and Bartok's ''Miraculous Mandarin'' Suite. At 8 p.m., 20091029

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Till Fellner: This young pianist continues his three-year traversal of the Beethoven sonatas at the Metropolitan Museum on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RACHEL PAPO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (94%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



833 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Cure for Urban Blight: Plant Lots of Sculpture

BYLINE: By BETSY RUBINER

DATELINE: Des Moines 

 BODY:
-- DRIVERS entering this capital city from the west once sped past a motley collection of worn-out buildings, including auto repair shops, vacant storefronts and a pornographic bookstore. But in recent years that vista has been replaced by verdant open space, benches and walkways -- and, as of this fall, a sculpture park with works by Willem de Kooning, Louise Bourgeois and Sol Lewitt, among others. 
 Perhaps the most arresting piece is ''Nomade,'' by the Spanish sculptor Jaume Plensa, a 27-foot-tall hollow human form made of a latticework of white steel letters, which looms over Locust Street, the one-way eastbound thoroughfare through Des Moines's compact business district. 
 Along Grand Avenue, Locust Street's westbound companion, primitive-looking heads by the Swiss sculptor Ugo Rondinone -- one menacing, the other wary -- are reminiscent of the ancient statues of Easter Island. 
 The park is named for John and Mary Pappajohn, a Des Moines venture capitalist and his wife, who have given the 24 sculptures -- valued at some $40 million -- to the community through the Des Moines Art Center. The enterprise is a collaboration among the Pappajohns, other private donors, the city and the center, a contemporary-art museum west of downtown.
 It is the latest major project in a broad redevelopment, started in 1991, of Des Moines's downtown, which used to bustle during weekdays with insurance and government workers but fell quiet soon after 5 p.m. That has been gradually changing over the past few years, especially with the opening of a new public library, a science center and an events center, as well as a burst of commercial and residential development.
 While the recession has slowed the makeover, the sculpture park is providing a cheerful, even optimistic, counterpoint to the economic gloom, as well as to the destruction across Iowa by floods and tornadoes in 2008.
 The 4.4-acre site, once two dreary blocks, was briefly an open park sometimes used for outdoor gatherings. In 2007 the Pappajohns decided it would make a fine place for their sculptures. 
 Community leaders raised $6.5 million to create the park and finance an endowment for security and upkeep. Diana Agrest and Mario Gandelsonas, architects based in New York, designed an undulating lawn with grassy mounds and crescent-shaped cutaways to display sculptures by artistic style. 
 For locals, many of the sculptures are old friends relocated from the lawn of the Pappajohns' Des Moines home. Others were acquired or commissioned specifically for the park, including ''Nomade'' and one of two graceful bronze horses by Deborah Butterfield. 
 With no admission charge, gate or fence, and operating hours that stretch from 6 a.m. to midnight, the park is admirably accessible, bordering on vulnerable. Some enthusiastic visitors haven't been able to resist touching (discouraged) or even climbing (forbidden.) There is also concern about graffiti and skateboarders. But the park has around-the-clock security, including foot patrols, cameras, motion sensors and speakers. 
 On a beautiful fall weekday the park's curving paths and thick grass accommodated office workers, families, joggers, a vanload of disabled people and several busloads of school children. 
 People wandered, pondering abstract pieces like Mark di Suvero's ''T8,'' made of red steel construction beams, and Richard Serra's ''Five Plate Pentagon,'' five sheets of rusted brown steel balanced upright against one another -- as well as figurative works like Ms. Bourgeois's spindly spider and Anthony Caro's voluptuous nude.
 Nearby, lunch crowds gathered at restaurants like the Mediterranean-influenced Proof, which opened in 2008.
 The park was emptier on a balmy weekend night, as dark expanses were relieved by softly illuminated clusters of sculptures. Teenagers took cellphone photos inside ''Nomade.'' Around the park, drivers in souped-up cars, pickups and motorcycles ''scooped the loop'': the local tradition of cruising repeatedly around the downtown circuit. 
 Across Locust Street, dancers shimmied behind the full-length windows of the Des Moines Social Club, a fashionably scruffy events space recently opened by a young former New Yorker. Nearby, other new restaurants like the lively brasserie Django are attracting weekend diners.
 More fruits of the city's redevelopment can be found east of the sculpture park -- past the dense assortment of office buildings, many linked by sky walks, in the downtown core -- along the Des Moines River, where a 1.2-mile loop called the Principal Riverwalk, with gardens, pedestrian bridges and more sculpture, is being built. Several components of the walk (named after the local company that is a major financer of it) have been completed, including an outdoor ice skating rink that is drawing crowds on weekends. 
 Just beyond the walk is the East Village, another once-neglected downtown area, near the golden-domed state capitol, which is drawing young residents and new restaurants, like the sushi hot spot Miyabi 9 and Alba, which serves contemporary American food. There are also small independent shops like Sticks, a crafts gallery with locally made wood furniture, and Smash, which sells cheeky, Iowacentric T-shirts, including one that sums up the mood around here: ''Des Moines: Greatest City in the World.'' 
 IF YOU GO
 WHERE TO STAY
 The Suites of 800 Locust Street, (800 Locust Street; 515-288-5800, 800locust.com) a luxury hotel near the sculpture park, has standard rooms for $209. 
 Renaissance Savery Hotel (401 Locust Street; 515-244-2151, marriott.com/hotels/travel/dsmbr-renaissance-savery-hotel/) is a recently renovated 1919 hotel with standard rooms from $159 to $199 
 WHERE TO EAT
 Proof (1301 Locust Street; 515-244-0655, proofrestaurant.com) is open weekdays for lunch; on Friday only for dinner ($25 prix fixe menu only.) Dishes include Moroccan chicken sandwich ($9) Greek salad ($8) and shrimp paella ($10). 
 Django (210 10th Street; 515-288-0268, djangodesmoines.com) is open weekdays for lunch and dinner; on weekends for dinner. Dinner entrees include steak frites ($18 to $28) and other French classics like cassoulet ($21). 
 Miyabi 9 (512 East Grand Avenue; 515-288-8885) is open Monday through Saturday for lunch and dinner. Dinner entrees include a 25-piece sushi platter ($24.95).
 Alba (524 East Sixth Street; 515-244-0261) is open Tuesday to Friday for lunch and dinner; on Saturday for dinner. Seasonal dinner entrees include pork with chorizo and sweet corn ($21). 
 THINGS TO DO
 The John and Mary Pappajohn Sculpture Park (between Locust Street and Grand Avenue, 13th and 15th Streets; 515-277-4405, desmoinesartcenter.org/downtown/index.html) is open daily from 6 a.m. to midnight. Admission is free. A free audio podcast walking tour featuring the Pappajohns and several sculptors is at desmoinesregister.com/assets/mp3/pappajohn/WalkingTour.mp3
 The Des Moines Social Club (1408 Locust Street; 877-201-3361, desmoinessocialclub.org) is open daily, and has a theater, bar and gallery.
 Brenton Skating Plaza (520 Robert D. Ray Drive; 515-284-1000, brentonplaza.com) is open daily from mid-November through March. Cost Monday through Thursday is $3 for adults; $2 for children; Friday through Sunday and holidays is $4.50 for adults and $3.50 for children; Skate rental is $2.50. 
 East Village (downtown east of the Des Moines River, eastvillagedesmoines.com.) Most shops are open Monday through Saturday including Sticks (521 East Locust Street, 515-282-0844; sticks.com) and Smash (400 East Locust Street, Suite 12; (515) 288-1323; thesmashsite.com) 
 Des Moines Art Center, (4700 Grand Avenue; 515-277-4405; desmoinesartcenter.org) With wings designed by Eliel Saarinen, I. M. Pei and Richard Meier. Open daily except Monday. Admission is free.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, visitors to the Pappajohn Sculpture Park view ''Nomade.'' Right, participants in a charity event in the East Village area of Des Moines near the Capitol.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK KEGANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details Downtown Des Moines, Iowa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); CITIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); LIBRARIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (95%) IOWA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



834 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Where Clackety-Clack Is the Lullaby of Choice

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: Cresson, Pa. 

 BODY:
 THE Station Inn here in western Pennsylvania is utterly lacking in amenities. There's no air-conditioning, no television of any kind, no in-room phones. Nor is there a fitness center, a Jacuzzi, a sauna or a pool. The beds are all twins. 
 Yet guests from across the continent and beyond return again and again to this bed-and-breakfast, where they sit on the rambling front porch of this ramshackle former hotel, built in 1866, 150 feet from a major railroad artery, and watch the trains go by. 
 Here, any expectations of coupling are limited to freight cars connecting. But with up to 70 trains passing daily, all but 2 of them freight trains, the romance of the rails is in ample supply. 
 The inn, 75 miles east of Pittsburgh, faces the main line of the former Pennsylvania Railroad, with three parallel tracks that are occasionally all occupied at once. ''We're not a regular, typical B-and-B,'' said Tom Davis, the proprietor who converted the building 15 years ago into what it is today: a rail fan's dream come true, with the clackety-clack of flange on steel as soundtrack. 
 So they come, from Germany and Australia, New Jersey and Ohio, to indulge a passion that is mostly male, listening to scanners that blare out dispatchers' directions, chasing trains with their cameras and talking train trivia for happy hour upon happy hour, far into the night. From 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., it's officially quiet hour, when guests are asked to lower their scanners and conversation. For some at least, sleep comes fitfully, as the freights come and go every 45 minutes or so, and early risers are the rule. 
 Most of the guests are retired or nearly so, with time on their hands. Many are repeaters, with the average guest staying 11 times, according to a recent survey conducted by Mr. Davis. 
 Dave Williams, an assistant Sears store manager from Rockland County, N.Y., holds the record. He was on his 73rd night at the inn when I visited in late summer. At 44, he is also one of the younger regulars. He had spent the day taking train photos and hiking to and from the 900-foot-long Staple Bend Tunnel, the nation's first railroad tunnel, completed in 1834 and now part of the Allegheny Portage Railroad National Historic Site (814-886-6150, nps.gov/alpo) but long since abandoned by trains. 
 Other rail attractions include the Gallitzin tunnels (one is still in use) and Horseshoe Curve, where freight trains wind around, rather than through, the mountains. Naturally, the minor league baseball team in nearby Altoona is named the Curve, and Cresson's weekly newspaper is The Mainliner, with a steam locomotive as its logo.
 Those patronizing the Station Inn (814-886-4757, stationinnpa.com) live an average of 355 miles from Cresson, according to the survey. For 85 percent the inn is not only a place to stay but also the destination. (Exactly why the other 15 percent come here is unclear, but Mr. Davis said they could be spouses -- mostly rail-fan ''widows'' passing the time at the Logan Valley Mall in Altoona or at the gardens of the old Schwab estate in nearby Loretto.) 
 The seven guest rooms or suites (containing a total of 22 twin beds) are all railroad-theme. (Rates range from $55.50 to $120 a night.) In the second-floor Pennsylvania Railroad Suite (two rooms, three twin beds, a desk and two of the railroad's club car chairs), a former occupant from Ohio has written in the guest book, ''I loved the fact that I could watch the train from bed!'' 
 And there is this, from a Connecticut family: ''It has everything we dreamed of -- trains, new friends, trains, great location to see the sights, trains, great hospitality and more trains.''
 So it was that at 10 o'clock one night there were still a dozen porch sitters planted in comfortable chairs. Ray Kvande, a retired Philadelphia pastor, used a flashlight to illuminate the clipboard on which he was recording information about each passing train. For the rail fans the big rush came from the agonizingly slow movement of a long eastbound coal train with four engines -- two in front and two in back -- pushing it uphill. ''It's almost like watching paint dry,'' Mr. Kvande observed.
 Yet, said Ken Heil, an undertaker from Ashland, Ohio: ''The vibration is music to rail fans, the brute power of it, it's kind of like icing on the cake. When the engines are working really hard, the whole building shakes with the rumble.''
 Mr. Heil and his rail buddy Stan Swope, of New Philadelphia, Ohio, had spent the day taking the eastbound Amtrak passenger train, the Pennsylvanian, from Altoona to Harrisburg, where they ate lunch and caught the westbound train back, returning to the Station Inn at night.
 There is, indeed, a breakfast at this bed-and-breakfast, served family style at an expansive table in a dining room festooned with railroad memorabilia. Choices include cold cereal and fresh fruit, but the most popular offering is chipped sausage with gravy and a fried egg over toast. When the place is full, there may be three sittings.
 The Station Inn has held its own in this down economy, Mr. Davis said, since many of its patrons are pensioners without car or house payments or children at home. But from the front porch, the economic dip is reflected in the number of freight trains, now down about 10 percent from a daily high of 75. 
 ''Auto carriers were affected the most,'' Mr. Davis said. ''There were two trains a day; now it's down to one train. And with housing construction down, the number of lumber cars is fewer.''
 The inn is not for everyone. ''If we had 20 people sitting here absolutely quiet, and the wife is saying to the husband, 'What in the world are we doing here?,' we'd prefer not to have them,'' said Mr. Davis, 78, a rail fan who in 1993 retired from public school teaching and administration in New Jersey to this quiet (except for the trains) town of about 1,500 people. 
 For Mr. Heil of Ohio, his visit was a welcome respite from the grim business of arranging funerals and burials. As a break from his routine of ''handling other people's grief and trauma all the time,'' he said, he liked ''being able to have this little corner of the world you could come and enjoy, get away from it all.'' Or just watch it all pass by.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PAGING MR. CASEY JONES: Above, Tom Davis, the proprietor, chats with guests on the porch of his Station Inn in Cresson, Pa. Top, keys bear the rooms' names, all from historic railroad lines.
 TRACK FAN: Russ Yeakel on his 10th stay at the inn.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details Cresson, PA, and surrounding area. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); TRAINS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); HIKING (77%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (75%); BASEBALL (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%); MOUNTAINS (60%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%); HISTORIC SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



835 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Tight Race for Houston Mayor, With History on Line

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Annise Parker does not talk much about her sexual orientation on the campaign trail. She prefers to focus on issues like drainage and balancing the budget. 
 But it has escaped no one's notice here in the nation's fourth-largest city that Ms. Parker, the current city controller known for her low-key manner, stands an even chance of becoming the first openly gay woman to be elected mayor of a major American metropolis. 
 ''Over the years, it has become less and less of an issue for Houstonians, because I really believe Houstonians judge people based on what we can do,'' Ms. Parker said in an interview. 
 Then she added: ''I always told voters the truth. There is an element of, 'Well, if she will tell us the truth about her sexual orientation she will tell us the truth about anything.' '' 
 Ms. Parker, 53, is in a close three-way race that many political professionals here say is one of the most unusual in the city's history, not because it has been bitterly fought but because it has been relatively tame. 
 Mayor Bill White, who is stepping down to run for the United States Senate, is so popular that there is little anger at City Hall, and the three Democrats in the race differ so little on the issues that voters have had trouble telling them apart. Every poll has shown the biggest slice of the voting pie is still ''undecided.''
 ''The three candidates are just a degree apart on the issues,'' said Nancy Sims, a political analyst. ''Without a clearly defined enemy, it's hard to choose whom to support.''
 The other two Democrats in the race are Gene Locke, a lawyer who enjoys the backing of business leaders, and Peter Brown, an architect and at-large councilman who has pumped $2.4 million of his own money into the race. 
 The Republican candidate, Roy Morales, a county education official, is trailing badly in every poll taken, leaving the question of where Republican voters will go up in the air.
 Few pollsters or strategists expect anyone to win a majority on Election Day, so the new mayor is likely to be chosen in a runoff in December between the top two vote-getters.
 Mr. Brown, a spry 72-year-old, has emphasized the need for more city planning in Houston, a city notorious for its lack of zoning. ''I don't think we can assume there is an invisible hand that is going to realize the potential of our city,'' he said in an interview. 
 Mr. Locke, meanwhile, has found himself trying to dispel a perception that he is too cozy with developers because he played a major role in the development of the city's sports stadiums. ''My mother will tell you that 'no' was the first word that came out of my mouth as a baby,'' he said in a recent radio interview. ''I know how to say 'no.' ''
 As the race has entered the last week, the candidates have struggled to find a way to break the deadlock, and the tone has turned more negative. Mr. Locke, who is 61 and started out as a militant black student leader, has accused Mr. Brown of trying to buy votes in the black community after he donated money to black churches and received endorsements from some of them. 
 Mr. Brown pounced on Ms. Parker, claiming she had missed deadlines for annual audits and put the city's financial security at risk. That accusation prompted Mayor White, who has not endorsed anyone, to come to Ms. Parker's defense. (He said delays had been caused by the installation of new software.)
 For her part, Ms. Parker has questioned Mr. Brown's veracity about his achievements and called on him to disclose the business dealings of his wife, Anne Schlumberger, one of the heiresses of an oil-services fortune. 
 Recent polls suggest Mr. Brown's heavy spending on advertising has paid off. He led the field, with Ms. Parker running a strong second, and Mr. Locke third.
 Despite all the attacks, no one in the race has raised questions about Ms. Parker's sexuality, not even through proxies. Some strategists say it may become an issue in a runoff if Ms. Parker must battle Mr. Parker or Mr. Locke for conservative voters from the west side of the city.
 Ms. Parker began her political career as a gay activist at Rice University in 1979 and in 1986 became the president of the Gay Political Caucus. She won her first City Council seat by challenging an incumbent who had fought the creation of a district in the Montrose neighborhood where gay men and lesbians would have political sway. Throughout her career, she has managed to embrace her roots in the gay community without being labeled a gay candidate. It has been a delicate balancing act that has sometimes required her to disappoint supporters. 
 In a televised debate on Oct. 25, for instance, she was asked if she would push for a referendum to give benefits to the same-sex partners of city workers. A similar measure was soundly defeated in the past. 
 Ms. Parker has lived with her partner for 19 years and has two adopted children, so she has a personal stake in the question, but she replied that, while she supported the idea, she had ''no current plan to offer that for a referendum.''
 ''Personally it's very important,'' she said, ''but, as mayor of Houston, do I want to engage resources in fighting that battle, or do I want to tackle the budget? Do I want to tackle drainage? Do I want to try to put more police officers on the street? It's the difference between the personal and what this city needs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Annise Parker, the Houston controller, stands an even chance of becoming the first openly gay woman to be elected mayor of a major American city.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
In the Houston mayor's race, Gene Locke, left, is a lawyer who enjoys the backing of business leaders, and Peter Brown, right, is an architect and at-large councilman who has spent $2.4 million of his own money in the campaign.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID J. PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (74%); LAWYERS (71%); HISTORY (67%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



836 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Oil Giants' Profits Reflect Decline in Energy Prices

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After posting record profits last year, major oil companies have struggled to adapt to a world of lower prices and slower economic growth. They have slashed costs, shed employees and pared high-cost investments made when prices were rising. 
 As oil prices have fallen, so have corporate earnings. Exxon Mobil, the world's biggest publicly traded oil company, and Royal Dutch Shell, the top European company, both reported sharp declines in third-quarter earnings on Thursday. 
 The plunge in profits occurred amid a recovery in oil prices, which had fallen as low as $34 a barrel in December from their peak of $147 a barrel last summer. On Thursday, oil closed at $79.87 a barrel in New York trading, up $2.41. 
 The rebound has been a relief for producers. While prices remain historically high, the industry has been squeezed because of investment decisions made while oil was rising. 
 Today, few petroleum executives imagine returning to a world where oil trades at $20 a barrel, the average throughout the 1990s. In fact, a level of $65 to $75 a barrel is increasingly viewed as a new minimum for the industry. If prices settle below that range, many oil executives say they will find it difficult to expand production or invest in new exploration projects.
 While most of its big competitors have been restructuring operations and cutting expenses, Exxon said it would stick with its plans to spend $25 billion to $30 billion a year over the next few years to develop new energy supplies. 
 The company said that its profits in the third quarter declined 68 percent, to $4.73 billion, or 98 cents a share, falling short of analysts' expectations. That compared with earnings of $14.83 billion a year ago, the company's best quarter. 
 ''We're not in a panic mode,'' said Kenneth P. Cohen, Exxon's vice president for public affairs, in a conference call with reporters. 
 Exxon became the world's most profitable corporation in 2008, earning $45 billion as oil averaged $100 a barrel. 
 Exxon's shares traded down for much of the day on Thursday after the company's profit came in below forecasts of $1.06 a share. But the stock ended the day up 12 cents at $73.96. 
 Exxon posted a loss at its American refining business for the second consecutive quarter. The company said that its spending in the quarter fell by 5 percent compared with last year, to $6.5 billion. Its oil and gas production in the period rose by 3 percent.
 ''Despite ongoing global economic weakness and reduced demand for products, we continued our robust investment program and delivered strong results,'' Rex W. Tillerson, Exxon's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
 Shell's net income fell to $3.25 billion from $8.45 billion in the same period last year. In London, Shell shares fell 55 pence, or 2.9 percent, to 1,856 pence.
 ''We see some indications that energy demand and pricing are improving but the outlook remains very uncertain, and we are not expecting a quick recovery,'' Peter Voser, Shell's chief executive officer, said in a statement.
 Shell has outlined a sharp cost-cutting program in recent months. It is eliminating 5,000 jobs, about 10 percent of its work force, and merging some units. The company said that as part of its restructuring efforts, it would take a charge in the fourth quarter that might total ''several hundred millions of dollars'' because of the job cuts. The company said it had reduced operating costs by about $1 billion in the first nine months of the year.
 Similar efforts are already paying off at BP, the British oil giant. The company reported better-than-expected earnings on Tuesday after beating its own cost-reduction targets and increasing output. 
 Higher oil prices in recent years meant that oil companies increased their spending on more expensive exploration efforts, such as oil sands, to increase production. They were also forced to raise spending as costs throughout the industry doubled from 2004 to 2008.
 But as prices fell, oil majors as well as independent producers across the country have struggled to adapt. They have capped wells that have become uneconomical, for example, and in Canada, heavy oil projects have been put on hold.
 While oil prices have dropped 45 percent since their peak last summer, costs have fallen by only 15 to 20 percent since last year's peak, said Patrick de la Chevardiere, chief financial officer of the French oil giant Total.
 Conoco Phillips, for example, said it would reduce its capital expenses by 12 percent next year, and planned to sell assets worth $10 billion over the next two years. Conoco said on Wednesday that its third-quarter profits fell 71 percent, to $1.5 billion. 
 Eni, the giant Italian oil company, slashed its dividend by 23 percent over the summer, in part to protect its spending program, but the move stunned investors who have long been accustomed to the industry's policy of paying high dividends.
 Chevron, the second-largest American oil company, will report earnings on Friday.
 The picture is not entirely grim. Companies have made large discoveries this year. BP announced a major offshore find in the Gulf of Mexico last month, while Anadarko Petroleum and its partners said they had identified a major offshore petroleum basin running from Ghana to Sierra Leone.
 But oil companies must run faster just to stand still. More than 3.5 million barrels a day of new capacity must be added each year to offset the normal decline of old fields around the world. Some of that can be done by stimulating existing fields to pump more oil; some by investing in new capacity in already-discovered reserves, such as in Saudi Arabia; and some through well-head exploration.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In August, Exxon hailed the arrival of the first liquefied natural gas cargo at a terminal off Italy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BUSINESS WIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (87%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (87%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (87%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%)

PERSON: REX W TILLERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



837 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: In Canada, Utility Buys Rival to Gain U.S. Access

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Hydro Quebec, the Quebec government's electrical utility, said on Thursday that it would buy its counterpart in the neighboring province of New Brunswick for 4.75 billion Canadian dollars ($4.4 billion). 
 The acquisition of the New Brunswick Power Corporation appears to be aimed at increasing Quebec's electrical export business to the United States rather than to extend its reach into a relatively small market along the Atlantic coast of Canada. By purchasing the company, Hydro Quebec gains direct access to portions of Maine and New Hampshire.
 Thanks largely to giant hydro electric projects in northern Quebec, Hydro Quebec enjoys a substantial surplus in electricity. It exported power valued at 1.19 billion Canadian dollars ($1.1 billion) last year, including long-term sales to the United States. Quebec is spending 8.5 billion Canadian dollars ($7.9 billion) on a hydroelectric project largely intended for out-of-province sales.
 ''New Brunswick sits in the middle of a lot of interconnections,'' Thierry Vandal, the president and chief executive for Hydro Quebec, said. ''To get export markets you need interconnections.''
 The New Brunswick deal was swiftly condemned by Danny Williams, the premier of Newfoundland and Labrador, as an effort to keep his province exporting electricity to the northeastern United States as well as other parts of eastern Canada.
 ''It will be attempting to strand Newfoundland and Labrador, so good, cheap, competitively priced energy can't be offered to that whole region,'' Mr. Williams told reporters in St. John's, Newfoundland.
 Quebec and Newfoundland have long feuded over water resources used to generate power.
 Mr. Vandal dismissed Mr. Williams's complaints, saying that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in the United States effectively required Hydro Quebec to provide transmission access to other Canadian power exporters.
 But he also suggested that there was a considerable gulf between the two provinces over the terms of such access.
 ''We've been committed to open access on transmission for a long time,'' Mr. Vandal said. ''But open access does not mean free.''
 Hydro Quebec has long been an important symbol in its home province. The Quebec government has used it to help develop industries like aluminum, and Quebec consumers enjoy unusually low electric rates. Jean-Thomas Bernard, an economist at Laval University in Quebec City who studies energy policy, said the company's expansion outside of the province would further enhance its reputation in Quebec.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); UTILITY RATES (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

COMPANY: NEW BRUNSWICK POWER CORP (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (94%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



838 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW DAMIaN ORTEGA; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: How Things Work (Or Sometimes Don't)

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
What's the difference between an artist and a mechanic? At first glance, Damian Ortega's dismantled Volkswagen Beetle, ''Cosmic Thing'' (2002), invites such jokes. (Insert your own punch line here.) 
 It also has a serious side that becomes apparent when considering the Beetle's status as the ''people's car'' and its history of production and consumption in Mexico. Following the diagrams in the repair handbook, Mr. Ortega disassembled the vehicle and suspended the components from the ceiling. The result is a kind of ritual sacrifice. (In the other works that make up his ''Beetle Trilogy,'' Mr. Ortega dragged a car with a rope and buried one outside a Volkswagen factory.) 
 ''Cosmic Thing'' is the centerpiece of an Ortega survey, ''Do It Yourself,'' which opened at the Institute of Contemporary Art here last month. (He also has an exhibition that runs through Saturday at the Gladstone Gallery in Chelsea.) The Boston show is full of conceptually driven sculpture and installation. The best of it is schematic yet unpredictable, a seductive combination.
 Mr. Ortega, 42, is based in Berlin but was born in Mexico City. Both places figure prominently in his work. In a short video that accompanies the exhibition, Mr. Ortega cites Berlin's transitional urban landscape as a major influence. But his art materials -- from tortillas to Beetles -- are often staples of Mexican life.
 He's also associated with a group of Mexico City artists that includes his former teacher Gabriel Orozco, the subject of a Museum of Modern Art retrospective that opens in December. A fellow student, Gabriel Kuri, has written a ''User's Guide'' to Mr. Ortega for the Boston exhibition catalog. All three artists show at the Mexico City gallery Kurimanzutto, and are similarly inclined toward playful absurdism. (It's tempting, for instance, to interpret ''Cosmic Thing'' as a homage to Mr. Orozco's 1993 sculpture ''La D.S.,'' a Citroen surgically reduced to two-thirds of its original size.)
 The humor in Mr. Ortega's art can also be traced to his first career, as a political cartoonist for Mexican magazines and newspapers. It's both a strength and a weakness: he has interesting and provocative things to say, but often an arch delivery.
 Jessica Morgan, an adjunct curator at the institute and curator of contemporary art at Tate Modern, has installed almost all of Mr. Ortega's work in one large room. The pieces feed off one another, but the crowded, playgroundlike setup has the gallery guards on constant alert.
 The works date from 1996 to the present and reflect a mastery of the post-Conceptual, biennial-friendly idiom of the Orozco circle. Even so, art festival culture is sometimes a target of Mr. Ortega's wry wit. An invitation to participate in the 2000 exhibition ''Puerto Rico 00,'' in San Juan, inspired the performance-sculpture ''100 Dollars Diet.'' Mr. Ortega saved the small allowance given to him by the show's organizers and changed the money into 10,000 pennies. (He got by on canned food and hors d'oeuvres.) The coins, in their cardboard tubes, form a long intestine that winds along the gallery floor.
 Frequent shifts in scale keep things interesting. One minute you're hypnotized by the revolving oil drums of ''False Movement (Stability and Economic Growth)''; the next, you're scrutinizing the numbered corn kernels on ''Classified Cob.''
 Also riveting is the way Mr. Ortega flouts assumptions about common objects while working with their material properties. For the sculpture ''Tortillas Construction Module'' (1998), he engineered an architectural tower of corn tortillas by baking them to a crisp and slotting them together. And for the installation ''120 Days'' (2002) he worked with a Tuscan glass workshop to produce 120 variations on the Coca-Cola bottle. Their fluted, flanged and otherwise modified forms imply different kinds of deviance, especially in light of the title's allusion to the Marquis de Sade novel.
 In the three hanging sculptures titled ''Skin'' Mr. Ortega achieves a meaningful transformation by substituting soft materials for rigid ones. When laid flat, the tan leather cutouts correspond to the floor plans of austere modernist housing projects. Draped from hooks, as they are here, they become wonderfully pliable and forgiving. They also echo felt sculptures by Robert Morris and organic abstractions by artists of the Brazilian Neo-Concrete movement.
 Another charged substance, brick, figures in several projects, some more successful than others. In the installation ''Nine Types of Terrain,'' nine short films show bricks toppling, like dominoes, in formations derived from Sun Tzu's ''Art of War.'' The sight is hypnotic, the sound softly percussive.
 Almost as good is a series of photographs of brick piles outside homes in Brazil and Mexico. In an accompanying statement Mr. Ortega explains that these provisional-looking stashes are a form of aspiration. Homeowners keep the bricks in reserve because they plan to expand their houses -- someday, when they have the time and money.
 It's harder to relate to the polished-stainless-steel cubes that serve as building blocks for ''Selection From Belo Horizonte Project,'' a set of Tetris-like sculptures. Their surfaces reflect the spectacular harbor view of the corridor outside the main gallery, but they don't feel like Mr. Ortega's work. They're uncharacteristically sleek, impassive and luxurious.
 You could say the same about the large sculptures made from pressure-sanded brick and concrete in Mr. Ortega's show at Gladstone. They evoke pre-Columbian sculpture, geologic formations and utopian housing developments fallen into disrepair. Their rough edges, however, are smoothed by a display that emphasizes uniformity. 
 At his best, Mr. Ortega appeals to a fundamental curiosity about how things work: not just machines, but also larger social and economic systems. You can see it in the Volkswagen and in a strangely compelling video in which Mr. Ortega tunnels into the liquid center of a golf ball. They're feats of art making that can't be reduced to parts and labor.
 ''Damian Ortega: Do It Yourself'' continues through Jan. 18 at the Institute of Contemporary Art, 100 Northern Avenue, Boston; (617) 478-3100, icaboston.org. ''Damian Ortega: CAPITAL Less'' continues through Saturday at Gladstone Gallery, 530 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Classified Cob,'' from the Damian Ortega survey at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KENNARD/KURIMANZUTTO, MEXICO CITY)
 Mr. Ortega's ''False Movement (Stability and Economic Growth)'' (1999), with three oil drums standing on a base with a spinning mechanism.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KENNARD/ELLIPSE FOUNDATION, CONTEMPORARY ART COLLECTION, CASCAIS, PORTUGAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CITY LIFE (65%); CONSUMPTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); PORTUGAL (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



839 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY GREW 3.5% IN QUARTER; WORRIES LINGER

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL; Javier C. Hernandez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The United States has emerged from the longest economic contraction since World War II. 
 The nation's gross domestic product expanded at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the quarter that ended in September, matching its average growth rate of the last 80 years, according to the Commerce Department. But government programs to encourage consumer spending on things like cars and houses are expiring, and employers remain reluctant to hire more workers, suggesting the recovery may not last, economists say.
 ''The big-picture perspective is that things have improved,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs. ''The question is, how sustainable is this growth going forward?'' 
 For most people, the recovery will not feel real until jobs are more plentiful and the housing market improves. Jobs may still be hard to find well into 2010, economists say. A government report to be released next week is expected to show that unemployment rose again this month. 
 Still, Wall Street welcomed the news of renewed economic growth, with major stock indexes ending the day about 2 percent higher. The Dow Jones industrial average soared 200 points, to close at 9,962.58. 
 Before the third quarter, the gross domestic product -- the broadest measure of the government's total goods and services produced -- had been shrinking for a year. It bottomed out with a 6.4 percent rate of decline in the first three months of this year, the steepest fall since 1982.
 The trend was halted last quarter primarily because of consumers, who drove most of the economic gains.
 The government's cash-for-clunkers program spurred consumers to spend more on durable goods, orders of which grew at an annual rate of 22.3 percent in the third quarter after a decline in the previous quarter. Similarly, the $8,000 federal tax credit for first-time home buyers helped revive housing sales, which rose at an annual rate of 23.4 percent in the third quarter. Housing sales had actually fallen by a comparable amount in the previous three months. 
 The $787 billion stimulus package, which was passed last winter and is still being distributed, is also credited with strengthening economic activity, although the precise contribution is contested.
 Many economists worry that the effects of these government initiatives will be short-lived and that the next few quarters may show sluggish growth or even a second dip. 
 The Obama administration has argued that even temporary government programs may make families feel more comfortable with spending and business more comfortable with making bigger investments for the longer term.
 Still, withering consumer confidence and concerns about a weak recovery have left companies wary of hiring more employees. The jobless rate reached 9.8 percent in September, its highest in 26 years.
 Initial jobless claims fell by 1,000 in the latest week, to 530,000, according to a Labor Department report also released on Thursday. The number has been heading down but is still well above the levels historically associated with job creation, according to John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics.
 Concerns about rising unemployment may pressure the administration to look for additional ways to stimulate the economy. Proposals include another extension in unemployment benefits and various job creation programs.
 ''It's all in the hopper,'' said Christina D. Romer, chairwoman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers. ''It would be irresponsible if we weren't thinking about these kinds of programs.''
 Businesses are drawing down their inventories more slowly, possibly because they anticipate more demand in the future, economists said. The businesses have largely sold out their current stock, Thursday's report showed. This means they will increase orders in the coming months to replenish supplies.
 ''Everybody had been dealing with a just-in-time status quo,'' said Sandra Westlund-Deenihan, president and design engineer for Quality Float Works, a company in Schaumburg, Ill., that makes valve assemblies. She said companies might be growing tired of building new products as orders rolled in one by one, and are now ready to have stock back on the shelves again. 
 Like many American manufacturers, Ms. Westlund-Deenihan says that international business has helped keep her company afloat. The country's overall exports grew at an annual rate of 14.7 percent, and imports at 16.4 percent, in the latest quarter.
 While these numbers mean the United States' trade gap has widened, they also provide hope that the global economy may finally be recovering from a collapse in activity earlier this year.
 ''When the economy gets fully back on track in the latter half of next year, the recovery is likely to be stronger than the recovery following the 2001 recession, when exports were anemic due to an overvalued dollar and weak growth abroad,'' said David Huether, chief economist at the National Association of Manufacturers.
 The official end of the recession will be determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research. Its business cycle dating committee looks at output as well as other indicators like employment to make that call. The group spent a year examining data before declaring that the recession had begun in December 2007. 
 Some economists say they expect the panel will eventually decide that the recovery began sometime this summer.
 The third-quarter economic growth came without a major surge in inflation. 
 The price index for gross domestic purchases, a measure of prices that United States residents pay for goods and services, increased at an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the third quarter, compared with a small increase in the second. 
 Excluding food and energy prices, the inflation index rose 0.5 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 0.8 percent in the second.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a third-quarter expansion in the nation's gross domestic product defined G.D.P. incorrectly. It is the government's broadest measure of total goods and services produced -- not the broadest measure of the government's goods and services produced.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Todd Wilkes, left, and Gus Garay look at appliances at a Home Depot store in Georgia. Sales of durable goods in the last quarter grew at annual rate of 22.3 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A3) CHART: A Quarter of Growth: Inflation-adjusted gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the third quarter, but the possibility of a jobless recovery remains. After the 2001 recession, output rose for six quarters before the economy added jobs.(Sources: Commerce Department
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); TRENDS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



840 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Keeping College Affordable

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''College Costs Are on Rise, as Is Concern About Effect'' (news article, Oct. 21) focuses on the average increase in student-borne costs at colleges and universities. While averages and percentage increases may be important indexes of affordability over all, it is important to note that large percentage increases often reflect low starting costs. 
 Consider the case of Baruch College of the City University of New York. The Chronicle of Higher Education pegs Baruch's in-state tuition and fees at $4,970 this year, a 13.7 percent increase over the 2008-9 figure of $4,370. But at less than $5,000 for a year of study -- within the limits for full reimbursement under the state's Tuition Assistance Program -- the college remains less expensive than any other four-year college in the Northeast save two.
 Public colleges and universities are uniquely vulnerable to funding shortfalls in economic downturns, and often tuition increases are the only way to make up the difference. But let's focus on the real costs, not the percentage increase.
 Like our sister schools in CUNY, Baruch College remains a leader in keeping entry costs low while diversifying its revenue streams, allowing the college to sustain the academic excellence for which it has become so well known.
 David S. Birdsell Dean, School of Public Affairs Baruch College New York, Oct. 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



841 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 907 words

PERSON: Elmer Winter 

HEADLINE: Elmer Winter, 97, Co-Founder of Manpower Temp Agency, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Elmer Winter, whose very bad day at the office -- he and his law partner madly scrambled to find emergency secretarial help -- spurred them to start Manpower, the worldwide temp agency, died Thursday in Mequon, Wis. He was 97 and lived in Fox Point, Wis.
 Manpower announced the death. 
 In April 1948, Mr. Winter and his brother-in-law and law partner, Aaron Scheinfeld, had to file a brief on a tight deadline with the Wisconsin Supreme Court. They could find no one to type it.
 They finally hunted down their former secretary and persuaded her to toil until dawn. Their problem was solved, but they thought about the experience. They recalled a legal client who supplied short-term laborers for unloading freight cars. Maybe they could do the same thing for a broader range of employers.
 So they scraped together $7,000, rented a small store in Milwaukee and went into the business of arranging for temporary employees. A friend suggested the obvious and almost perfect name Manpower; most of the original employees were women.
 The first year did not go so well. They lost $9,000, despite long lines of typists, stenographers and bookkeepers eager for the temporary work they spoke of in a newspaper ad. But the two decided to stay with their new sideline because what few paying customers they had were happy. By the end of 1949, they had covered their losses and made a small profit. 
 Six decades later, Manpower has grown to be the world's third-largest company in the business of providing temporary and other staffing services. It has 4,100 offices in 82 countries, and 400,000 clients, ranging from small businesses to huge corporations.
 Manpower has twice been acquired by other companies and emerged as an independent company both times. Today it offers many employment services beyond temporary labor, including the placements of permanent employees. Workers accrue benefits based on how long they work, even if they work for many employers. 
 Mr. Scheinfeld, the dreamer, died in 1970, but Mr. Winter, the nuts-and-bolts guy, stayed until 1976, when he retired. Manpower then had offices in 20 countries.
 But Mr. Winter kept an office in the building, and a title, chairman of the advisory council. He also kept busy: he formed an organization to promote business ties between the United States and Israel; served as president of the American Jewish Committee; led efforts to aid Milwaukee youth; and was beloved by generations of Manpower employees who relished his stories and lavender sports coats.
 Moreover, he made something of a name for himself as a sculptor, specializing in turning automobile bumpers into works of art. A particularly soaring creation was titled ''To Dream the Impossible Dream.''
 Mr. Winter chuckled at the reaction of a man who viewed one of his deliberately mangled works in Philadelphia: ''I don't know anything about art, but this guy is a lousy welder,'' he said.
 Another of Mr. Winter's accomplishments was writing 13 how-to books on subjects like how to be a better secretary.
 His winning personality, sugar-coated with modesty, never hurt him.
 ''I was not an outstanding kind of guy that was bound to succeed,'' Mr. Winter said in a documentary about Manpower's history last year. ''I was just a nice guy.''
 Elmer Louis Winter was born in Milwaukee on March 6, 1912. His father, Sigmund, was an immigrant who owned a clothing store. Elmer's first job in 1922 was delivering fruits and vegetables by horse-drawn cart to brewery workers. He went to Milwaukee public schools, and earned economics and law degrees from the University of Wisconsin.
 In 1936, he was offered a job in the Chicago law firm owned by Mr. Scheinfeld for $30 a month, according to ''Entrepreneur Magazine's Encyclopedia of Entrepreneurs.'' When the firm expanded to Milwaukee, Mr. Winter managed the new office. After Manpower's success seemed certain, both men retired from practicing law.
 Private employment agencies had existed in the United States since 1863, but the modern temporary staffing industry began after World War II with the founding of Kelly Girls by William Kelly in 1946. Later called Kelly Services, it was the first multiregional temporary agency. Manpower was the first to expand beyond clerical help into industrial positions, the journal, Regulation, reported in 1998.
 For workers, the appeal of the temporary-help agencies is flexibility and variety. For companies, it is the ability to react quickly to changes in labor needs. Training programs Mr. Winter helped establish benefited both sides.
 Secretaries were given free brush-up courses that included training on new office machines like electric typewriters, The New York Times reported in 1966. Instructors tried to instill confidence in women returning to the work force after an absence.
 ''They are made to believe they can cope with any modern business situation,'' Mr. Winter said.
 Mr. Winter's wife of 54 years, the former Nannette Rosenberg, died in 1990. He is survived by his wife, the former Hope Melamed; his daughters, Sue Freeman, Lynn Winter Gross and Martha Gross Tracy; eight grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren.
 When Mr. Winter was 95, he bought a red sports car. When he was 96, he passed a driver's test to renew his license until the age of 104. Three weeks before his death, he drove to Manpower's headquarters to put in his usual day's work.
 ''Hang in there, Elmer,'' said the sign on his desk.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an obituary on Friday about Elmer Winter, co-founder of the temporary agency Manpower Inc., misstated his date of death. It was Thursday, Oct. 22 -- not Thursday, Oct. 29.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elmer Winter last month.(PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF MANPOWER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); SCULPTURE (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%)

COMPANY: MANPOWERGROUP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WISCONSIN SUPREME COURT (57%)

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



842 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Cleaner-Trucks Mandate Will Create Hardships at Port of Oakland

BYLINE: By FRANCES DINKELSPIEL

 BODY:
Ablelom Zerfiel sat in the cab of his 1992 Freightliner, waiting in a long line to drop off his empty cargo container at the Port of Oakland. After driving for 12 years, Mr. Zerfiel is used to delays, low pay, grueling hours and the fickleness of the dispatch company that arranges his jobs.
 ''This is straight-out slavery, only modern,'' said Mr. Zerfiel, 49, a native of Eritrea. ''The companies tell you to keep your mouth shut, take what they give you, and don't say anything because if you say anything there's always another guy who can do it.''
Life for Mr. Zerfiel and many of the other 1,300 independent truckers serving the Port of Oakland is about to get even harder. In an effort to reduce local air pollution, the port has mandated the use of cleaner trucks by Jan. 1. This makes it likely that Mr. Zerfiel, as well as hundreds of other drivers who cannot afford to buy new vehicles, will be out of work. 
 The new regulations have created a clash between two ideals long held sacred in the Bay Area: the right to decent working conditions and a push for greener technologies.
 ''The retrofit program and trucking ban are very important for improving air quality and reducing the impact of truck pollution on neighborhoods like West Oakland,'' said Doug Bloch, director of the Oakland chapter of the Coalition for Clean and Safe Ports. ''On the negative side, it's the truck drivers at the port who have to pay, and they can't afford it. Hundreds of them will join the army of the unemployed on Jan. 1.''
 West Oakland, a predominantly African-American neighborhood of 22,000 people, sits adjacent to the Port of Oakland. Three freeways and many railroad tracks run through the area. Trucks on their way to the port travel through the neighborhood at all hours of the day and night.
 Their emissions -- as well as the smoke and fine particulates coming from the smokestacks of idling ships -- means that soot settles thickly on residents' cars and windowsills. It is dirty on these surfaces, and damaging, if not deadly, when breathed.
 Asthma rates in West Oakland are five times higher than those for residents of the Oakland hills, and chances of cancer are three times higher than in other Bay Area cities, health studies show. 
 In 2007, the California Air Resources Board enacted a sweeping set of laws intended to reduce pollution at ports throughout the state. To comply with the law, the Port of Oakland voted earlier this year to ban trucks built before 1994 from picking up or dropping off cargo at the port, said Damian Breen, the state grants program manager for the Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
 Trucks built from 1994 to 2003 will need to be retrofitted with a special filter. By 2014, only trucks built after 2007 will have access to the port. 
 To help pay for the conversion, local, state and regional agencies have paid $22 million, which Mr. Breen estimates will cover the upgrades of 1,000 trucks. But that will leave as many as 900 trucks out of compliance. Drivers who need to install filters can receive a $16,000 grant, and those who need new trucks are eligible for $50,000 in grants. New trucks cost $174,000, so drivers can finance the balance with a participating bank that is offering federal small-business loans, Mr. Breen said.
 But Mr. Zerfiel and others of the 1,989 truck drivers working at the port say they cannot make the switch, even with the financial help. Many, like Mr. Zerfiel, are first-generation immigrants living paycheck to paycheck. They cannot qualify for bank loans since they have bad credit ratings. They are also reluctant to spend the money for retrofits since their vehicles will have to be replaced in four years anyway.
 ''At the last day of December, my truck is done at the port,'' said Manuel Rivas, a native of El Salvador who said he could not afford to replace his 1989 vehicle.
 The real problem, Mr. Bloch and other community activists said, is that the trucking system is broken. When Congress deregulated the trucking industry in 1980, it dismantled an industry dominated by large companies with union drivers. Independent truckers took their place.
 Independent truckers occupy a precarious position. They must buy their own trucks, pay for their own gasoline and insurance and compete among one another for jobs. They must accept the pay offered by trucking dispatch companies. Now, they must somehow come up with the money to buy cleaner trucks.
 A recent study commissioned by the Port of Oakland estimated that independent truckers earn around $19 an hour, or $1,050 a week and work around 57 hours a week. Employee drivers earn around $1,250 a week. Mr. Bloch's group contends that the average wage, based on a different study, is closer to $10.50 an hour, or less than $600 a week. 
 Unions and advocates for clean air are pushing for the trucking industry to take more responsibility for buying cleaner trucks. They want the dispatching companies to hire the truckers as full-time employees with salaries and benefits, rather than rely on contract employees. ''As long as you are making these guys buy their trucks, we are never going to have a clean fleet,'' Mr. Bloch said. ''It's not sustainable.''
 But not all independents want to work for someone else. Carlos Jordan, 50, came to the United States from Guatemala 34 years ago. He bought one truck and saved his earnings. Today, his Jordan Trucking Company has four trucks, pictures of which he proudly stores on his BlackBerry.
 ''We come to America because of the freedom and opportunity,'' Mr. Jordan said. ''This is what we want. I don't want to be forced to work for someone else.''
 Efforts to compel companies to use full-time employees rather than contract drivers have been stymied in court. In 2008, the Port of Los Angeles banned independent owner-operators, but was sued by the American Trucking Association, the nation's largest trucking trade group, which won a preliminary injunction against the ban in federal court. The case is set for trial in 2010.
 The trucking association argued that the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act gave the federal government the sole authority to impose regulations that could hinder interstate commerce. The mayors of port cities -- including Ron Dellums of Oakland, Cory Booker of Newark and Michael R. Bloomberg of New York -- and the Bay Area Air Quality Management District have called on Congress to amend the 1994 law to give local jurisdictions more control.
 The trucking association, which just settled a lawsuit with the Port of Long Beach over what it characterized as overly stringent requirements, believes that the push to eliminate independent drivers is a ploy to unionize drivers. Clayton Boyce, the vice president for public affairs for the association, said, ''This is not about the environment,'' but about helping the unions.
 Port of Oakland officials are watching the Los Angeles case closely, said Margaret Gordon, the port commissioner. Many commissioners are sympathetic to the burdens of independent contractors but are wary of levying lease requirements that might compel trucking or shipping companies to take their business elsewhere, Ms. Gordon said. 
 But the Jan. 1 deadline is drawing nearer, and many independent drivers are unsure what to do. Some say the stress is difficult to endure.
 ''You start thinking what's going to happen,'' said Roberto Soto, 44. ''You can't sleep. You think: What are the chances I will find new work? What's going to happen to my family? What chance do I have to find another job?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Truckers at the Port of Oakland wait hours to load and unload cargo, releasing emissions into the air and nearby neighborhoods.(pg. A25A)
 Ablelom Zerfiel expects to be out of work when new regulations go into effect on Jan. 1.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A25B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); PARTICULATE MATTER (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); ASTHMA (50%)

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); ERITREA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



843 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: New York Hotels Welcome International Marathoners With Open Arms

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
Around this time of year for the past two decades, the hallways of the boutique-style Grand Union Hotel on East 32nd Street suddenly come alive with the sounds of Dutch chatter. Men and women in tights, windbreakers and sneakers pad comfortably between the rooms, the lobby and the coffee shop. Two homemade banners in the lobby read: ''NYC Welcomes the Holland Runners for the 2009 Marathon.''
 ''It's like a clubhouse,'' said Adriaan van Straalen, a tour operator from Leidschendam, the Netherlands, whose group of about 150 runners and relatives fill 90 percent of the Grand Union's 88 rooms. ''The rooms are modest. They have a nice staff and a very down-to-earth hotel.'' 
 Across the city this week, many of the 20,000 international runners in Sunday's New York City Marathon are transforming hotels like the Grand Union into a cluster of high-rise Olympic villages. The deluge is palpable. Only the Greater New York Dental Meeting in November draws more visitors to the city's hotels for a single event.
 The marathon is not immune to the weak economy this year. Many tour operators and hotels say visitors are down as much as 20 percent from last year. Holland Runners, for instance, has brought 100 fewer runners compared with 2008.
 But with half of the expected record field of 40,000 runners from overseas, the city will still get a significant economic kick. International visitors tend to stay far longer than domestic runners, and they often bring friends and family members, who spend thousands of dollars more in restaurants, shops and theaters.
 The hotels benefit the most, though. Spending on lodging represents about one-quarter of the $250 million in economic activity generated in the city during marathon week. The international runners also leave lasting impressions there. 
 The Holland Runners, who come from southwest of Amsterdam and close to The Hague, help the family-owned Grand Union generate $75,000 in revenue. Van Straalen placed 350 additional runners from his tour in five other Manhattan hotels.
 The Holland Runners are so ensconced in the Grand Union, though, that many visitors joke with the longtime manager, Tozen Ali, and help clear pancake plates at the overflowing 27-seat coffee shop, which opens at 2:30 on the morning of the race.
 ''Believe it or not, we still offer discounts,'' Ali said. ''They're like family now.''
 The reunions are repeated at hotels across the city. For decades, Norwegian runners have helped fill the Edison Hotel on 46th Street in Midtown, where Grete Waitz's amiable brothers stay before they run the race. Chileans bunk at the Kimberly Suites on East 50th Street, and the Flatotel on West 52nd Street has become the choice for groups of Germans, Spaniards and Italians, and the 65-strong contingent from Bermuda.
 In recent years, some of the race's elite runners have also stayed at the Flatotel, and attributed special powers to it. Hendrick Ramaala, the South African who won the race in 2004, asked for the same room the next year, when he finished second by less than a second.
 ''Those that have a good streak, they want the same room,'' Argy Koumas, the director of sales at the Flatotel, said.
 The little things at even the largest hotels go a long way. A Japanese sales manager in the New York Hilton helps with translation; the Marriott hotels add carbohydrate-rich dishes, fruit and buffets; the Roosevelt Hotel opens its Terrace Ballroom for 500 Italians (some from other hotels but with the same tour operator, EIS) for a prerace meeting to discuss logistics.
 This year, the largest numbers of registered foreign runners are from Italy (3,460), France (3,170), Britain (2,613), Germany (2,482) and the Netherlands (1,602), according to New York Road Runners.
 ''Europeans have always spent more time in New York, five to seven nights per marathon,'' said Mike Stengel, who oversees the Marriott hotels in the New York area.
 Hotel occupancy rates in Manhattan are above 90 percent this week, but a growing number of runners are looking for bargains in New Jersey, Queens and elsewhere. Some ride the subway or train into Manhattan to see the sights. But they will have to make that return trip after the race.
 Runners at the Hotel Beacon on 75th and Broadway, though, can hobble just a few blocks from the Central Park finish area, shop for groceries at Fairway and cook prerace pasta in their kitchenettes.
 At the 260-room Hotel Beacon, four tour groups from Sweden, Norway, Australia and Italy have stayed for at least eight years each. The 410 people staying in 166 rooms represents about a 20 percent increase in revenue during the four- or five-day period, said Gerry Traino, the director of sales and marketing.
 As at the Grand Union, the Beacon's hotel staff knows the tour operators and runners so well that for the past six years it has asked runners to write their finishing times on a flip chart in the lobby. The runner with the fastest time (based on the honor system) wins a Bulova sports watch worth about $150, a bottle of Beringer pinot noir and a box of Jacques Torres chocolate. The second-fastest runner wins the wine and chocolate, and the third fastest gets only the chocolate.
 It's a sweet deal.
 Coming Monday in the print edition of The Times: a special section covering the New York City Marathon, including all results (official times) through 4 hours 30 minutes. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adriaan van Straalen, a tour operator from the Netherlands, at center above and near right, booked rooms at the Grand Union. Erik van Hal met other Dutch runners.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARATHONS (90%); RUNNING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FAMILY (87%); TOUR OPERATORS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



844 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: In Medicaid Fraud Cases, Some Unlikely Suspects

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
One is a Manhattan painter and mime who owns two waterfront properties in the Hamptons and has performed with the singer Melba Moore.
 Another is a freelance artist who owns two Manhattan apartments valued at more than $1 million apiece.
 A third is a dentist working in the Bronx whose practice provides services to Medicaid patients. 
 These three suspects were among 11 people indicted recently on charges that they fraudulently obtained Medicaid benefits. Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, announced the indictments on Thursday.
 All were arraigned Thursday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan on various charges, including welfare fraud, grand larceny and filing false records.
 Prosecutors said that the defendants filled out applications to receive Medicaid, a health insurance plan for low-income people, and gave incorrect information about their income, assets and where they live. A person who qualifies for Medicaid must make less than $10,830 a year and have assets worth less than $13,800, prosecutors said. The threshold for couples with two children is $33,075 and $26,130, prosecutors said.
 On his Medicaid form, Steven Colucci, 57, claimed that he earned $5,000 per year, prosecutors said. But in fact, prosecutors said, Mr. Colucci, the painter and mime, owns two waterfront houses in the Hamptons for which he received rental income totaling about $58,000 in 2005 and about $65,000 in 2006, prosecutors said. 
 Mr. Colucci, who posed with Crystle Stewart, a former Miss U.S.A., at his exhibition opening last year, received more than $16,000 in Medicaid benefits from 2005 to 2008, prosecutors said.
 According to his Web site, Mr. Colucci's ''painting equally suggests the energy of the distillation of sculpture, dance and music.''
 A 1982 New York Times review of one of Mr. Colucci's shows as a mime said that he brought ''an extra physicality to the art form.''
 ''His energy is high but always controlled -- his body straining into high extensions, his pelvis thrusting out and mouth pulled into ragged silent exclamation,'' the review said.
 Mr. Colucci pleaded not guilty and his lawyer, Michael A. Raskin, declined to comment outside of the courtroom.
 According to prosecutors, Brian Bomeisler and his wife own two apartments in Lower Manhattan worth more than $1 million each, but he claimed to have earned just $2,200 per month. Mr. Bomeisler, 57, gives seminars nationwide on drawing with the right side of the brain and charges up to $1,400 per person, prosecutors said. His public health benefits totaled more than $37,000 between 2002 and 2008, prosecutors said.
 ''These allegations are totally inconsistent with the way that he conducts his personal and professional life,'' said Mr. Bomeisler's lawyer, Steven Brill. 
 Dr. Eufrocina Caluag is a dentist whose office was reimbursed about $300,000 in 2008 and 2009 for treating Medicaid patients, prosecutors said. Dr. Caluag wrote on her application that she was unemployed and did not have an income, prosecutors said, and was able to collect $6,931 in benefits between 2007 and 2009.
 Dr. Caluag's lawyer, Thomas E. McCullough, said he would have to examine the timeline of when she applied for and received benefits because she was unemployed for a period of time.
 The application for Medicaid is self-authenticating, meaning that applicants do not have to provide verifying documents, prosecutors said. But investigators for the city's Human Resources Administration regularly runs audits of the city's two million Medicaid recipients -- and that is how these cases were uncovered, prosecutors said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); MEDICARE FRAUD (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); DENTAL INSURANCE (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LAWYERS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LARCENY & THEFT (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); WELFARE FRAUD (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); EXHIBITIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



845 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Upbeat U.S. Growth Report Prompts a Surge in Markets

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The news that the United States economy had grown for the first time in a year electrified investors on Thursday, sending stocks up after four days of sizable declines.
 It took one number -- 3.5 percent, the rate of the economy's growth in the third quarter -- to rally traders, who had expected a smaller increase in the gross domestic product, the total value of goods and services in the economy. 
 When it became clear that the longest contraction since World War II had ended, stocks surged, and the rally accelerated as the trading day continued.
 By the time the markets closed, all the major averages had ridden the wave. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 199.89, or 2.05 percent, to end at 9,962.58. The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index went up 23.48, or 2.25 percent, to 1,066.11. And the Nasdaq composite index, which is heavy with technology stocks, finished 37.94 higher, or 1.84 percent, closing at 2,097.55.
 Shares in financial companies and corporations that produce basic materials, like metal, led the increases. 
 The figures on economic growth overshadowed less optimistic data on unemployment released on Thursday. A report showed that the number of people claiming jobless benefits for the first time fell by 1,000 -- short of the 6,000 Wall Street analysts had predicted.
 However, the number of people continuing to receive unemployment benefits fell to 5.8 million, lower than the 5.9 million economists had forecast.
 Marc Harris, co-head of global research for RBC Capital Markets in New York, said the G.D.P. figures were enough to drive up the markets for the day, but would not affect investors' long-term views of the economy.
 ''It's going to be about the follow-through beyond the stimulus,'' Mr. Harris said. ''I think we're starting to move away from having an automatic positive reaction to anything that is not a disaster. For the next two to three quarters, the economy actually has to start to show some movement.''
 Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak, an investment research company, said caution was in order, given that much of the increase in G.D.P. could be attributed to the injection of the stimulus package. Unemployment is still expected to continue rising.
 ''A lot of analysts, economists and strategists are nervous about the possibility of weaker growth over the next several quarters -- weak enough that it won't soak up the unemployed at a rapid enough pace,'' Mr. Greenhaus said.
 As investors turned to stocks, the dollar fell, as did the price of bonds.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 22/32, to 101 1/32, and the yield rose to 3.50 percent, from 3.41 percent late Wednesday.
 The rally extended across the Atlantic. In Europe, markets closed higher, though by smaller margins than in the United States. The FTSE 100 in Britain climbed by 1.13 percent, the DAX in Germany increased 1.66 percent and the CAC 40 in France grew by 1.37 percent.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of seven-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US DOLLAR (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

COMPANY: HARRIS CO (SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA) (66%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



846 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Federal Researchers Find Lower Standards in Schools

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
A new federal study shows that nearly a third of the states lowered their academic proficiency standards in recent years, a step that helps schools stay ahead of sanctions under the No Child Left Behind law. But lowering standards also confuses parents about how children's achievement compares with those in other states and countries.
 The study, released Thursday, was the first by the federal Department of Education's research arm to use a statistical comparison between federal and state tests to analyze whether states had changed their testing standards. 
 It found that 15 states lowered their proficiency standards in fourth- or eighth-grade reading or math from 2005 to 2007. Three states, Maine, Oklahoma and Wyoming, lowered standards in both subjects at both grade levels, the study said. 
 Eight states increased the rigor of their standards in one or both subjects and grades. Some states raised standards in one subject but lowered them in another, including New York, which raised the rigor of its fourth-grade-math standard but lowered the standard in eighth-grade reading, the study said.
 ''Over all, standards were more likely to be lower than higher,'' in 2007, compared with the earlier year, said Peggy G. Carr, an associate commissioner at the department.
 Under the No Child law, signed in 2002, all schools must bring 100 percent of students to the proficient level on states' reading and math tests by 2014, and schools that fall short of rising annual targets face sanctions. In California, for instance, elementary schools must raise the percentage of students scoring above the proficient level by 11 percentage points every year from now through 2014.
 Facing this challenge, the study found that some states had been redefining proficiency down, allowing a lower score on a state test to qualify as proficient. 
 ''At a time when we should be raising standards to compete in the global economy, more states are lowering the bar than raising it,'' Secretary of Education Arne Duncan said in a statement. ''We're lying to our children.''
 The 15 states that lowered one or more standards were Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Kentucky, Maine, Michigan, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Eight that raised one or more standards were Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Missouri, Montana, New York, North Carolina, and Virginia.
 Louis Fabrizio, a director at the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction, said that under the No Child law, states face a dilemma. ''When you set standards, do you want to show success under N.C.L.B. by having higher percentages of students at proficiency, in which case you'll set lower standards?'' Mr. Fabrizio asked. ''Or do you want to do the right thing for kids, by setting them higher so they're comparable with our global competitors?'' 
 In the study, researchers compared the results of state tests and the National Assessment of Educational Progress in 2005 and 2007, identifying a score on the national assessment that was equivalent to each state's definition of proficiency. 
 The study found wide variation among states, with standards highest in Massachusetts and South Carolina. Georgia, Oklahoma and Tennessee had standards that were among the lowest.
 Forty-eight states are working cooperatively to create common academic standards. Authorities in Texas and Alaska declined to join the effort. 
 Russ Whitehurst, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said it was unlikely that the effort would soon produce a nationwide system that would allow parents and employers to easily compare test results from state to state, partly, he said, because ''states would still have to agree on a common test.'' 
 ''And that's heavy lifting,'' Mr. Whitehurst said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Score Discrepancies: A study shows that 16 states had proficiency standards that fell within the basic achievement level for fourth-grade reading on a federal test known as the National Assessment of Educational Progress. Some 32 states fell below the basic level. (Source: ''Mapping State Proficiency Standards Onto NAEP Scales: 2005-7'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); STATISTICS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (62%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



847 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Japan Airlines Is Told to Seek Public Bailout Funds

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan set the stage for a huge bailout of Japan Airlines on Thursday, telling the struggling carrier to turn to a state-backed body for assistance. The move signaled that the new left-leaning government in Tokyo would not take a tougher stance against the country's powerful corporations.
 The government said JAL, Japan's largest carrier by revenue, had been instructed to apply for funds from a state-backed turnaround body, after a special task force said that saving the airline was ''definitely possible'' but would require a substantial injection of public money. 
 The former flagship carrier, which was privatized in 1987, was bailed out three times since 2001 under the previous administration, but it is still reeling from plunging revenue and $15 billion in debt. The airline posted a record quarterly net loss of 99 billion yen ($1.08 billion) in the three months that ended in June and has forecast a net loss of 63 billion yen for the fiscal year to March.
 Some had predicted that Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama, whose Democratic Party cast the long-dominant Liberal Democratic Party from power in August, could let JAL go under to underscore a promise to shift Japan's resources away from corporations and toward households.
 But ultimately, JAL is too big to fail, Seiji Maehara, the transportation minister, told reporters on Thursday. He said it was too early to say how big the bailout would be.
 ''If JAL were to stop flying, there would be serious repercussions for Japan's economy,'' and it would disrupt travel to and from other countries, Mr. Maehara told reporters Thursday. ''It is not your ordinary company,'' he said.
 Mr. Maehara stressed that JAL would need to make aggressive cutbacks to receive fresh public money, including reducing the company's bloated bureaucracy, downsizing its fleet and slashing so-called legacy costs, which include pension liabilities of about 330 billion yen.
 The minister also criticized previous bailouts, calling them mere stopgap measures, and said his government was committed to bringing about a more comprehensive turnaround.
 ''Under the previous administration, there was no real due diligence, no real turnaround strategy,'' Mr. Maehara said.
 JAL had earlier submitted its own draft reconstruction plan, which included cuts of 6,800 jobs, or about 14 percent of its workers, but it failed to get a passing mark from Mr. Maehara.
 A government bailout could complicate partnership negotiations between JAL and several other top airlines, including Delta Air Lines, the world's biggest airline operator; American Airlines; and Air France-KLM, Europe's biggest airline group.
 JAL will now apply for assistance from the Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corporation, set up by the government this month to invest in struggling but viable firms. The turnaround body will conduct its own due diligence before formally agreeing to aid JAL, Mr. Maehara said, though government commitment to the airline appeared certain Thursday.
 The troubles at Japan Airlines, once a symbol of Japan's emergence in the global economy, stem from years of mismanagement, as well as a more recent plunge in travel amid the global financial crisis.
 The airline's deep problems also stem from stiff regulations that have forced it to service many unprofitable routes within Japan to prop up a network of domestic airports built with government money. Flying to these has been a drain on the carrier's resources and profitability.
 But JAL can be quickly revived with money and a robust turnaround plan, said Shinjiro Takagi, the government task force chief.
 ''Reviving JAL will require a substantial amount of money, including public money,'' Mr. Takagi said. ''Our conclusion, however, is that JAL can most certainly turn itself around, and in a robust way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seiji Maehara, the transportation minister, right, received a report by Shinjiro Takagi, the head of a government task force (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (50%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (50%); AF (AMS) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



848 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: AstraZeneca Pays Millions To Settle Seroquel Cases

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON

 BODY:
The pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca said Thursday that it had reached a $520 million agreement to settle two federal investigations and two whistle-blower lawsuits over the sale and marketing of its blockbuster psychiatric drug Seroquel. 
 One of the investigations related to ''selected physicians who participated in clinical trials involving Seroquel,'' AstraZeneca disclosed in a government filing. The other case related to off-label promotion of the drug. 
 As a result of aggressive marketing, Seroquel has been increasingly used for children and elderly people for indications not approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Doctors are permitted to prescribe any approved drug for off-label uses.
 Seroquel was the top-selling antipsychotic drug in America. It had $17 billion in sales in the United States since 2004, according to IMS Health, a research firm. 
 Tony Jewell, a company spokesman, declined to be more specific about the physicians or clinical trials under investigation. He said the company was in final negotiations to settle the whistle-blower suits and reach a corporate integrity agreement with the Justice Department.
 The name of the whistle-blowers and other details of the suits remained sealed in federal court. Stephen A. Sheller, a lawyer in Philadelphia for the whistle-blowers, and Patricia Hartman, a spokeswoman for the United States attorney in Philadelphia, both declined to comment.
 AstraZeneca, based in Britain, joins a list of drug makers that have paid billions to settle inquiries initiated by complaints from former company insiders.
 Earlier this year, Eli Lilly & Company paid $1.4 billion over its marketing of Zyprexa, another antipsychotic drug. And Pfizer announced it would pay $2.3 billion, including a record $1.195 billion criminal fine, mostly over its painkiller Bextra, which has been withdrawn from the market.
 AstraZeneca disclosed the settlement in a financial report. Third-quarter revenue rose 10 percent, to $8.2 billion, and operating profit rose 29 percent, to $3.6 billion, at constant exchange rates over the year-earlier quarter.
 AstraZeneca also said it had been served with 14,444 civil lawsuits over the drug as of Oct. 9. Ed Blizzard, a lawyer for some of the people suing AstraZeneca, said Thursday that many patients have developed diabetes and other health problems because of misleading marketing.
 Mr. Blizzard said he did not know what clinical trials were part of the inquiry. But in one trial, known as Study 15, he noted, an e-mail message showed a company official saying ''a great 'smoke and mirrors' job' '' had been done on a ''buried'' study in 1997, the year the F.D.A. approved Seroquel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CLINICAL TRIALS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CORPORATE INTEGRITY AGREEMENTS (88%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); US FDA APPROVALS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); CRIMINAL FINES (66%); DIABETES (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (55%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

COMPANY: ASTRAZENECA PLC (98%); ELI LILLY & CO (82%); PFIZER INC (58%); IMS HEALTH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: AZN (STO) (98%); AZN (NYSE) (98%); AZN (LSE) (98%); LLY (SWX) (82%); LLY (NYSE) (82%); LEL (LSE) (82%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



849 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Buoyant House Democrats Unveil Overhaul Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
House Democrats on Thursday unveiled their bill to remake the health care system and said they had the votes to pass it. But Republicans said gimmicks had been used to hide the measure's long-term costs.
 The bill is similar in size and scope to one taking shape in the Senate, where Democrats' control is more tenuous and the outcome less certain.
 With introduction of the bill, both houses of Congress are now poised for a momentous floor debate on the legislation, which would guarantee health benefits for millions of people now uninsured.
 ''We are about to deliver on the promise of making affordable, quality health care available for all Americans,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared at an outdoor rally on the west side of the Capitol. 
 The 83-year-old dean of the House, Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, stole the show with a combative speech in which he attacked insurance companies and Republicans, who have been warning that the legislation would slash Medicare.
 By expanding coverage and reining in health costs, Mr. Dingell said, the bill would meet ''the greatest humanitarian need this country confronts, and the greatest economic problem.''
 The Congressional Budget Office said the House bill would provide coverage to 36 million people.
 By the most commonly used yardstick, the bill would cost $1.05 trillion over 10 years, roughly $150 billion more than President Obama had said he wanted to spend on the legislation.
 Even so, the budget office said that the costs would be fully offset by cuts in the growth of Medicare and by new fees and taxes on individuals, families and businesses. Thus, it said, the bill would reduce projected federal budget deficits by $104 billion over 10 years. 
 Mr. Obama welcomed the House bill as ''a historic step forward'' and said it met two important criteria. ''It is fully paid for and will reduce the deficit in the long term,'' he said.
 The budget office said 18 million people -- one-third of them illegal immigrants -- would still be uninsured in 2019. In the decade after that, it said, the House bill ''would slightly reduce federal budget deficits.''
 Republicans seized on the overall price tag of more than $1 trillion to bolster their contention that the measure was too costly.
 In a sign of the political sensitivity of the numbers, Democrats on Thursday focused attention on a lower figure, the $894 billion net cost of the insurance coverage provisions. 
 None of the cost estimates of the bill included provisions to increase Medicare payments to doctors. Those provisions, which would cost more than $200 billion over 10 years, were put into a separate bill, also introduced Thursday.
 House Democrats said the health care overhaul legislation could reach the floor next week. ''We will have the votes to pass it,'' said Representative Allyson Y. Schwartz of Pennsylvania.
 To secure additional votes, House Democratic leaders tweaked the bill in several ways: reducing the number of high-income people who would be hit by a new surtax; exempting more small business from a requirement to provide coverage; and stipulating that a new government insurance plan negotiate rates with doctors and hospitals, rather than using Medicare rates set by the government.
 Republicans said the 1,990-page bill would saddle the government with huge new financial obligations. With Medicare's hospital trust fund projected to run out of money in eight years, they said, the government cannot afford the commitments it has.
 The House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, denounced the bill as ''costly and unsustainable.'' 
 ''Instead of listening to the American people,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''Democrats hid behind closed doors and came back with a bill designed to appease the liberal special interests.''
 The Congressional Budget Office hinted that the savings in the House bill might not be achieved.
 ''Medicare spending under the bill would increase at an average annual rate of roughly 6 percent during the next two decades -- well below the roughly 8 percent annual growth rate of the past two decades, despite a growing number of Medicare beneficiaries as the baby boom generation retires,'' the budget office said.
 A major point of contention between the House and the Senate is how to pay for the new coverage, to be provided by expanding eligibility for Medicaid and by subsidizing insurance for low- and middle-income people.
 The Senate bill would impose an excise tax on high-premium insurance policies provided by employers. The House bill would impose a surtax on high-income people -- couples with adjusted gross incomes over $1 million a year and individuals over $500,000. 
 Congressional tax analysts said the surtax would raise $460 billion over 10 years. As originally proposed, the surtax had thresholds of $350,000 for couples and $280,000 for individuals.
 Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, who represents one of the nation's most affluent districts, said he and other freshmen had ''worked awfully hard'' to secure the change in the surtax.
 Senators of both parties dislike the surtax. But labor unions oppose the tax on ''Cadillac health plans,'' the biggest revenue-raiser in the Senate bill.
 The House bill includes a new provision that would require the secretary of health and human services to negotiate drug prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. The proposal is anathema to pharmaceutical companies.
 Undaunted by the August uproar over ''death panels,'' House Democrats would authorize Medicare to pay doctors for providing advice to patients on end-of-life care. The new bill says such consultations are ''completely optional.'' 
 The bill would require most Americans to obtain insurance and would require employers to provide coverage to workers or pay a penalty. Small businesses would be exempt from the employer mandate if they had payrolls of less than $500,000 a year, double the threshold in the Democrats' original bill.
 The budget office estimated that six million people would sign up for the public insurance plan.
 But the budget office said the premiums in the government plan would be ''somewhat higher than the average premiums'' charged by private insurers, in part because the public plan would probably attract less healthy people and would be less aggressive in managing care.
 In the House bill, as in the Senate bill, insurers would have to accept all applicants, could not limit coverage for pre-existing medical conditions and could not charge higher premiums because a person was sick. 
 Under a new provision of the House bill, children could stay on their parents' insurance through the age of 26. A bill approved by the Senate health committee offers a similar guarantee for children through age 25.
 GLOSSARY: Mandates: Employer mandate A requirement that businesses offer their employees health insurance. Individual mandate A requirement that all individuals buy health insurance coverage. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi at a rally Thursday on Capitol Hill at which House Democrats rolled out their bill on health care.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INSURANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (74%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



850 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Conversations With Christie and Corzine

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Two reporters for The New York Times, David M. Halbfinger and David Kocieniewski, conducted wide-ranging interviews with the major-party candidates for governor of New Jersey, Jon S. Corzine, the Democratic incumbent, and Christopher J. Christie, his Republican challenger. Following are some edited excerpts.
 Jon S. Corzine
 The Economy
 Q. Given all the factors we know, and the uncertainties, what do you really think you can get accomplished in your next term? 
 A. The most important issue that impacts what you can get done is, are we going to get a national economic recovery that comes sooner and comes stronger to the state? I believe we've positioned ourselves for that.
 We're dealing with a world where the nation's lost 7.25 million jobs and we've lost our 180,000, and so that colors a lot. And if that doesn't change, well, your primary focus is going to be, how do you do the best you can for your citizens, how do you make sure that services are delivered to the best extent possible, with shrinking revenues?
 Negative Campaigning
 Q. Let's talk about the tone of the race.
 A. Do you remember the 2005 race? That was a lot of fun. I don't remember it being so calm, or nice, or user-friendly.
 Q. But there's a sense in this race that Christie's getting hit more on personal stuff -- his driving record, ''throwing his weight around.''
 A. What we have tried to do is say that there has been a consistent pattern of playing by one set of rules for him and another for everybody else. ... The issue is whether the chief law enforcement officer in the state of New Jersey has consistently applied the law evenly and fairly and consistently for all parties. There was this claim that he was a white knight, right? 
 Q. But what that gets to is not what he'd be like as governor, or his policies -- it's his character. The thesis of it is that he's two-faced, he's a hypocrite. 
 A. I'm not saying that. I'm saying he is not the change agent he's trying to make himself out to be. Look, I see tough campaigns everywhere across the country. I don't know what you're supposed to do -- sit here and just get crushed?
 Money and Corruption
 Q. Do you regret being as free with your checkbook as you have been?
 A. We have people who at least from their political agenda, with respect to public policy, support the ideas that I believe in. I regret that some of the people who are involved in this business that I got into. But it's not like I like this environment, where you don't know ---- 
 Q. Who's wearing a wire?
 A. I try to carry myself in a way, given what has gone on around here, I obviously am not breaking any of those rules, because three-quarters of the people I come into contact with are either wearing a wire or accused of it. But it's troubling.
 It has given me the independence to be able to talk about the things I want and try to get the agenda done. And I could turn my back on all those folks, some of whom are perfectly reasonable. I'm not talking about the guys that have gotten arrested. But not everybody in politics is a crook. And unfortunately you don't give people lie-detector tests and then ask them for their vote in the Legislature. 
 Unpopularity
 A. Taking on change doesn't come easily. I guarantee you, it's an experience that I know from Goldman Sachs. It would have been nice, I could have stayed there probably another 10 years: all I had to do was not take on the status quo. 
 Q. Do you ever regret leaving the Senate?
 A. [Shaking his head to say no.] I don't want to be an 80-year-old politician. 
 Q. What do you plan to do when you're done?
 A. I've got grandkids. I want to work. Got a lot of stuff to do.
 Christopher J. Christie
 A 'Trust Me' Campaign
 Q. Part of your campaign has been about you, and you're saying ''Trust me, I got it done as a U.S. attorney, I'm not going to give you every detail but I got it done before and I'll get it done again.'' So you've left that opening to attack your credibility.
 A. But that's who I am, David, that's who I am.
 Q. Given the cynicism, though, that New Jersey voters have with everything that's happened, is it fair, is it effective to say, 'Trust me''?
 A. Those are two different questions. Is it fair? Yes. Is it effective? We'll see. 
 Q. Do you in retrospect wish you had put out a more detailed tax plan?
 A. No. I put out detailed spending plans and cuts I would make and I put out 14 points on property taxes over a period of time that candidly were not extensively covered by the media.
 Q. But you were forced to spell out the specifics.
 A. I think the only specific that I added to it was what the dollar figure would be and by its very nature, all that stuff is speculative. The governor says there's going to be $2 billion in stimulus money. But what happens if there's $1.5 or if there's $3 billion? Jon Corzine said 40 [percent increase in property tax rebates] in four [years]; that was a real big specific. We're still waiting. That was good politics. Was it good policy? I don't think he believed it when he said it, but it got him elected. 
 The Court
 Q. There are four State Supreme Court justices [to be named by the next governor]. Is there anything you could say to moderate or wavering Democratic voters to reassure them about what the shape of the court would be at the end of your term? 
 A. I think that it would be different than it is now, and I don't think the way that the Supreme Court has operated on a number of issues has been helpful to the people of New Jersey. I don't think legislating from the bench is ever helpful. I think we should legislate from the Legislature.
 Q. What issues do you think they've overreached and legislated from the bench on?
 A. Abbott [v. Burke, which mandated parity in school financing for poor urban districts]. Mount Laurel [which required towns to build moderately priced housing]. Lautenberg-Torricelli [which allowed Frank R. Lautenberg to replace Robert G. Torricelli on the ballot for Senate after Mr. Torricelli withdrew weeks before the 2002 election.] Lautenberg-Torricelli is the greatest piece of legislation from the bench I've ever seen.
 Wall Street
 Q. You bashed Jon Corzine for his Wall Street background quite a bit. But is that fair when your wife makes a living on Wall Street and your brother's Wall Street money helped smooth your path up the Republican Party ladder? 
 A. Sure, because what I'm talking about is a certain philosophy that I don't think that my brother or my wife share with the governor.
 When I'm talking about Wall Street I'm talking about his trader's mindset, which is: Evaluate the deal now, this trade, is it good or bad, and then move on without necessarily thinking all the time about what the long-term ramifications are, the long-term vision.
 Q. Give us an example.
 A. The toll roads plan. He was trying to characterize it as a solution to a whole bunch of problems when what I think it was something that was ill advised for the times. At the time he tried to take all these charts and graphs and make it this complex financial thing when in the end what it really was selling an asset to pay off debt. He used his financial background to complicate, and I think, cloud an issue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher J. Christie: The Republican Challenger
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine: The Democrat Seeking Re-election (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%); RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



851 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Travel) GHOST ADVENTURES LIVE! The ghostbusters -- Nick Groff, Zak Bagans and Aaron Goodwin, from left above -- journey to Weston, W.Va., where they will lock themselves into the Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum for a seven-hour report on any ghostly activity to be found in this supposedly haunted landmark, built from hand-cut stone during the Civil War and closed in 1994. Among the more gruesome procedures performed at the hospital in the 1930s and '40s was the ''ice pick lobotomy,'' perfected by Dr. Walter Freeman, who, after rendering patients unconscious by way of electroconvulsive therapy, would insert an ice pick between the eyeball and eyelid and hammer it into the frontal lobe of the brain through the eye socket. 
 4 P.M. (ABC); 7 P.M. (55) THE OPRAH WINFREY SHOW Ms. Winfrey interviews Lisa Niemi, the widow of Patrick Swayze. 
 8 P.M. (Hallmark) HALLOWEEN ON ICE The skaters Nancy Kerrigan (right), Todd Eldredge, Elvis Stojko, Steven Cousins and Tamar Katz glide and twirl to music by Mannheim Steamroller. 
 8 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER When the owner of a fashion company (Rene Ifrah) is found dead, Detectives Lupo (Jeremy Sisto) and Bernard (Anthony Anderson) suspect asphyxia. But then a fashion photographer (Jeremy Beiler, who works as a freelance video producer for The New York Times) helps reveal the victim's true identity and leads the detectives to a suspicious Web site with threatening posts.
 8 P.M. (CBS) GHOST WHISPERER Melinda (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is haunted by the Headless Horseman.
 8 P.M. (CW) SMALLVILLE Oliver (Justin Hartley), a k a the Green Arrow, is betrayed by Mia (Elise Gatien), a k a Speedy, after offering to train her to keep her off the streets. Meanwhile, Lois (Erica Durance) and Clark (Tom Welling) land a television job -- as a team.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) BILL MOYERS JOURNAL Is the recession really over? The economist James K. Galbraith discusses whether the American middle class is past the crisis and where it can go for help with rising unemployment, foreclosures and declining property values. Richard Brookhiser, a senior editor at National Review, talks about William F. Buckley Jr., his mentor, and the contemporary conservative movement.
 9 P.M. (USA) MONK Monk (Tony Shalhoub) reluctantly adopts a dog, then sets out to find its owner, who has vanished.
 9 P.M. (ABC) UGLY BETTY Hot-dog suit, anyone? Wilhelmina (Vanessa Williams) assigns Marc (Michael Urie) to be the assistant to an overworked Betty (America Ferrera), who is researching an article about the worst jobs in New York. 
 9 P.M. (CBS) MEDIUM The show's cast is inserted into scenes from George Romero's horror classic ''Night of the Living Dead'' in this Halloween episode, in which Allison (Patricia Arquette) has a series of nightmares that leave her with unexplained cuts and bite marks, and provide clues about the murder of a funeral director. Aida Turturro guest stars as the victim's daughter; Elvira shows up as herself.
 9 P.M. (Bloomberg) INNOVATORS In this new technology series, John Underkoffler and Kwindla Kramer, founders of Oblong Industries, talk about g-speak, a computer interface in which gestures and body movements are used to execute actions and applications. 
 10 P.M. (Animal Planet) PIT BULLS AND PAROLEES Six paroled felons find redemption caring for pit bulls at the Villalobos Rescue Center, where man and dog help each other rebuild their lives. Tia Maria Torres oversees them all.
 10 P.M. (13) LIVE FROM THE ARTISTS DEN In this performance from 2007, Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova, who call themselves the Swell Season, perform more than a dozen works, including ''Lay Me Down,'' ''When Your Mind's Made Up'' and the Academy Award-winning ''Falling Slowly,'' from the film they starred in, ''Once.''
 10 P.M. (CMT) INVITATION ONLY: BROOKS & DUNN The country musicians croon their greatest hits before a small audience in Nashville and discuss their recent decision to split up after 20 years.
 10 P.M. (USA) WHITE COLLAR Neal (Matt Bomer) and Peter (Tim DeKay) immerse themselves in Fashion Week in New York to prevent a criminal from hawking security data stored on technology woven into the fabric of a dress. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); HALLOWEEN (73%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); FORECLOSURE (60%); CONSERVATISM (60%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (72%); PATRICK SWAYZE (58%); JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



852 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Defending the Not-Quite-Wild

BYLINE: By SEAN PATRICK FARRELL

DATELINE: RIFLE, Colo. 

 BODY:
Standing in a canyon in hilly terrain, Ken Neubecker cast his fly into a cold stream. Minutes later he had a bite. Thrashing at the end of his line was a speckled green fish, a scarce Colorado cutthroat trout.
 Mr. Neubecker was fishing on the Roan Plateau, a high stretch of terrain beloved by hunters, anglers and hikers for its clear streams, herds of deer and elk, and rugged beauty. 
 ''There just aren't many places like this in the West,'' Mr. Neubecker said. ''It's a real gem.''
 Energy companies are looking at the Roan Plateau, too -- through entirely different eyes. Vast deposits of natural gas are believed to lie beneath the stretch on which Mr. Neubecker was fishing, and the companies want to drill. 
 ''What is really special about the Roan Plateau, these lands in particular, is the incredible energy density beneath it,'' said Duane Zavadil, vice president of the Bill Barrett Corporation, a Denver energy company that holds drilling rights to the Roan.
 The company's plans are at the center of a battle over the future of the plateau, one that could influence the fate of thousands of acres in the high country known as the intermountain West.
 A last-minute leasing push by the Bush administration put extensive federal lands in Utah and Colorado into the hands of oil and gas companies, including 36,000 acres of the Roan Plateau. The Obama administration has inherited the touchy question of what to do with those leases.
 As one of his first decisions, Ken Salazar, the Coloradan who is President Obama's interior secretary, scrapped a series of disputed leases in Utah. Last week, he announced that he would seek an investigation into other leases that granted favorable terms and low royalty rates for experimental projects to extract oil from shale.
 But so far, Mr. Salazar has decided against canceling leases on the Roan, saying that he must uphold the buyers' rights. 
 Sporting and environmental groups are suing the government in federal court, demanding that the leases be thrown out, and a preliminary ruling is expected this fall. 
 Lands like those of the Roan Plateau are not the pristine sort of wilderness found in places like Yellowstone or in Rocky Mountain National Park. They are generally cut by roads and have been used as rangeland for cattle for decades. 
 ''The Roan Plateau is a microcosm of the West that up until now would not have received attention,'' said Chuck Davis, a professor of environmental politics at Colorado State University. He said groups from across the political spectrum -- including city dwellers with second homes, hunters, hikers and ranchers -- are increasingly questioning the need for oil and gas development in places like the Roan, concluding that ''second or third echelon is still pretty special.'' 
 As Mr. Neubecker acknowledged on his fishing trip, ''This isn't classic Colorado 'majestic mountain peaks' country.'' 
 But as the number of truly wild places in the United States dwindles, people like Mr. Neubecker, who is president of the Colorado chapter of a conservation group called Trout Unlimited, are arguing that the nation ought to recalibrate its view of what is worth saving.
 This desire to preserve more land is running up against a powerful economic incentive to develop new supplies of oil and gas. In particular, the nation is undergoing a boom in natural gas drilling. New production techniques have expanded the country's potential reserves of gas by 40 percent in the last few years.
 Expanded gas output offers environmental benefits. Burning natural gas emits less carbon dioxide than burning other fossil fuels, and many experts argue that substitution of gas for dirtier fuels should be a major strategy to reduce the nation's contribution to global warming.
 But some of the methods of getting at the gas -- fragmentation, for instance, which breaks up the shale to get to gas pockets -- can also pollute water supplies, critics say. 
 This week, one of the largest gas companies said it would not drill in upstate New York after encountering opposition from local residents.
 As it lays plans to exploit the Roan Plateau, the Bill Barrett Corporation is promising sensitivity to the area's wild character.
 The company acquired its drilling rights last year after buying a 90 percent stake in the leases from Vantage Energy, which won them at a federal auction last August. (That auction netted nearly $114 million, a record for a lower-48 onshore lease.)
 The company has told investors that if it is allowed to develop the plateau, it may drill as many as 3,200 wells. But Mr. Zavadil said the company would diligently avoid trout streams and minimize other disruptions by using advanced techniques to pack dozens of wells together.
 The company has also pledged to develop only portions of the plateau at a time, and to put up money to improve wildlife habitats.
 ''We can have our cake and eat it, too,'' Mr. Zavadil said. ''The Roan Plateau will be preserved with oil and gas development. There will be a short while when there are wells being drilled and trucks driving by, but the benefits far outweigh those minimal costs.''
 From atop the Roan's cliffs, it is easy to see signs of encroaching oil and gas development. Service roads, well pads and gas rigs spread out across the valley floor. Such intensive energy development is remaking big parts of the landscape stretching the length of the Rocky Mountains.
 Opponents fear that development on top of the Roan Plateau will despoil it, leading to air and water pollution and disruption of wildlife.
 In the Bush administration's leasing program, those potential impacts were not taken fully into consideration, contends Michael Freeman, a lawyer with Earthjustice, which filed the suit calling for the cancellation of the Roan leases. 
 Mediation in the case is scheduled for Nov. 6. The groups suing the government are asking a judge to revoke the leases. That would not necessarily put the Roan off limits to future development, but it might require a fresh assessment of the environmental risks.
 For his part, Mr. Neubecker said he did not oppose drilling for natural gas, but was concerned that it happen in the right places. ''I cook with natural gas, and I love the stuff,'' he said. But on a tour of the plateau, he pointed out aspects of the landscape that in his view were worth preserving.
 The rugged hills are dotted with sage and aspen groves. Some creeks are watering holes for cattle, but most appear untouched, rushing through the deep shale canyons that define the plateau's topography. Vegetation hangs from some escarpments, and smooth shale slabs hold back pools of trout.
 The cutthroat trout that Mr. Neubecker comes to fish from the Roan's streams have been isolated since the last ice age by the steep canyons and waterfalls.
 He asserted that a spill of drilling chemicals could ''wipe out this population forever.'' In fact, similar trout populations exist elsewhere in the West, but the Roan's cutthroats are genetically pure, and preserving the fish is a major conservation goal in Colorado.
 ''There are some places where there are other values that have to considered, above and beyond the strict natural gas value,'' Mr. Neubecker said. ''And this is one of them.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about conservationists' resistance to natural gas drilling plans on the Roan Plateau in Colorado misstated when the Bill Barrett Corporation acquired its drilling rights to the area. It was in June 2009, not last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Natural gas rigs are already in the foothills of the Roan Plateau in Colorado and could soon be on the plateau itself.(pg. B1)
Ken Neubecker, president of the Colorado chapter of Trout Unlimited, hopes to preserve the dwindling number of wild spaces.
 The Roan Plateau is not pristine like Yellowstone, but it remains wild. Its defenders say it would be polluted by drilling.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEAN PATRICK FARRELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) MAP: The Roan Plateau is thought to be rich in natural gas. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); SPORT FISHING (78%); HIKING (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (74%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (74%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (74%); ROYALTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICS (72%); LITIGATION (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: BILL BARRETT CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: TROUT UNLIMITED (59%)

TICKER: BBG (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (78%) COLORADO, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



853 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: A Rivalry as Strained as New Jersey's Finances

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
In the final leg of New Jersey's unpredictable governor's race, both candidates are casting about for ways to save the state from financial doom as they confront the economic reality that will severely restrict the winner of Tuesday's voting.
 The Democratic governor, Jon S. Corzine, says he may revisit his plan to lease the New Jersey Turnpike to raise cash -- a proposal that he abandoned last year in the face of intense opposition from lawmakers and voters. 
 His Republican challenger, Christopher J. Christie, retreating from a key campaign promise, says he can no longer fully restore property tax breaks for homeowners, given the uncertainty of the state's finances. 
 In separate interviews in recent days with The New York Times, the two rivals made no apologies for the ugly tone of the campaign, offered markedly different visions for how to shape the state's highest court, complained about their depictions in each other's commercials, and made it clear that they shared little mutual respect or admiration. 
 Mr. Corzine said he rued having supported Mr. Christie's nomination for United States attorney when he was a senator because, he contended, Mr. Christie politicized the job and used it as a launching pad. ''New information, new conclusion,'' he said.
 Mr. Christie, somewhat theatrically, struggled for several moments to name three things the governor had done right. ''Let me think,'' he said. ''Um ... I would probably say I think over all his prosecutorial appointments have been good.''
 Mr. Corzine seemed almost resentful that he was not more appreciated by voters or the news media, citing unsung accomplishments like the passage of a civil unions law, paid family leave and the abolition of the death penalty.
 ''It's like in the water that somehow or another we didn't do some of these things,'' he said, adding: ''Go through the record. May not be pretty, but we got it done.''
 Mr. Corzine and Mr. Christie have been battling for nearly 10 months in an expensive and sometimes personal contest that has attracted national interest; the nation's only other governor's race is in Virginia . Mr. Corzine is ahead in some polls and Mr. Christie in others, though many voters say they still may change their minds. A third-party candidate, Christopher J. Daggett, is far behind but could help tip the race in either direction.
 With 39 governor's races in 2010, the outcome in New Jersey may hold a lesson about campaigning during hard times: whether it is better to play down the trouble one's state has fallen into, or to soft-sell the pain it will take to emerge from it.
 Mr. Corzine accuses Mr. Christie of falsely claiming that jobs and residents have fled the state and says the news media have unfairly portrayed New Jersey as ''worse than other places.'' He ticks off positive indicators: rising median incomes, falling numbers of the uninsured and rising test scores. ''There are a lot of good things,'' he said.
 Yet, he acknowledged the obvious: ''There's a lot of people hurting out here,'' he said. ''A lot of people who didn't expect to be hurting.''
 He added, ''I'm empathetic with that.''
 Mr. Christie, who says New Jersey is caught in ''negative momentum'' economically, focuses almost exclusively on the state's strapped middle class, pledging to force concessions from state employee unions and to bring ''parental supervision'' to an overspending Legislature, without ever precisely saying how.
 ''I think it's being responsible,'' he says about his lack of specifics. ''I'm not setting up expectations that I can't meet.''
 Regarding property tax rebates, Mr. Christie now says he cannot fully restore them -- though his commercials omit this qualifier -- and that he will send back the money only ''on a sliding scale depending on what the economic conditions were.'' He explained the turnabout by saying he was ''prioritizing out of a set of bad choices.''
 Referring to looming deficits, he added, ''It's not like I can click my heels and say, 'Make the bad stuff go away.' '' 
 The change is one of several recent reversals. Mr. Christie now also disavows a promise, made in a primary-season debate, to roll back a sales tax increase. He has backed away from a pledge to avoid using ''one-shot'' revenues to close the budget deficit. And he is now deferring until later in his term plans to eliminate a business tax surcharge, cut income taxes across the board, identify a permanent financing source for open-space preservation and restore higher-education financing to 2002 levels. 
 His biggest surviving pledge is to roll back Mr. Corzine's tax increase on people making more than $400,000 a year.
 While Mr. Corzine wears his spending priorities on his sleeve -- education and the social ''safety net'' -- Mr. Christie's are more difficult to pin down.
 An estimated $8 billion budget deficit looms next year, and his tax cuts and rebates could expand that, but Mr. Christie now says he will largely follow the governor's lead in closing the gap: saving $2 billion by deferring pension contributions and reaping a hoped-for $2 billion in additional federal stimulus aid. Mr. Christie pencils in $1.5 billion more in concessions from state workers -- which would be little short of a miracle -- and $500 million from forgoing increases in education financing.
 The rest, some $3 billion, will have to come from ''programmatic cuts,'' Mr. Christie said. ''I think everything else would be on the table,'' he said.
 If Mr. Christie has been forced to jettison his grand plans, Mr. Corzine does not seem to have any. After campaigning in 2005 on a bold -- and unfulfilled -- promise to cut property taxes 40 percent, he now says the state cannot afford any big-picture ideas, and could not name a high-profile issue that he would make the hallmark of his second term.
 ''We've been prepared to come up with more outside-of-the-box ideas, and we'll come up with more,'' he said. ''But in the seeds of this there are unattractive alternatives.''
 Mr. Corzine's most ambitious effort, a plan to pay down debt by selling the New Jersey Turnpike, died in the Democratic-run Legislature in 2008. Now he calls the idea ''too big, too fast, at the wrong time'' and says state residents, already sensing the coming recession, were unwilling to accept the toll increases it would entail.
 ''This idea worked,'' the governor said, adding, ''So maybe we just need to scale it back.''
 Absent a roaring recovery, Mr. Corzine says he would ''service the most vulnerable as resources will allow,'' continuing to support food banks, legal services and children's health, while investing in economic engines like infrastructure, stem-cell research and so-called green energy efforts like offshore wind farms.
 If money rolls in, he would weigh restoring property tax rebates, providing money to meet pension obligations, restructuring state debt and expanding prekindergarten.
 Mr. Corzine also hints that he might reduce the state's 4 percent cap on local property tax increases, both to spare homeowners and to spur municipal consolidations. 
 As the two men reflected on the long campaign, Mr. Christie admitted that calling prekindergarten ''baby-sitting,'' as he did early this year, ''probably wasn't the best choice of words.'' But Mr. Corzine offered no apology for his attacks on Mr. Christie's character, saying he had merely given as good as he got. ''I don't know what you're supposed to do -- sit here and just get crushed?'' he said.
 They offered competing views on the essence of the election: Mr. Christie characterized it as a contest between the Democratic incumbent's expansionist government and his more modest approach, that would tend mainly to the basics: health, safety and welfare.
 Mr. Corzine boiled the race down to coming vacancies on the State Supreme Court. Four of the seven justices are scheduled to be replaced or reappointed in the next four years, and Mr. Corzine said that the wrong replacements could imperil liberal causes like abortion rights, labor and affirmative action. Mr. Christie wants judges who he says will not legislate from the bench.
 And they shared their views of leadership, with Mr. Corzine defending his sometimes diffuse style, which often leaves even his supporters puzzled about what direction he's leading them, calling if the proper role of an energetic chief executive. ''Why would you want to be governor, or why would you want to be a leader, and not address the issues that exist?'' he said.
 In a lengthy discourse on the use of power, Mr. Christie said that strong leadership requires clear communication and straightforward negotiation -- much like, say, a prosecutor plea-bargaining with a defense lawyer.
 ''Don't make empty threats and don't make empty promises,'' Mr. Christie said. ''Leadership is about perception, too,'' he said. ''You've always got to keep that in mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Pennsauken on Thursday, Gov. Jon S. Corzine talked of the value of preschool programs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Christopher J. Christie, the Republican challenger, greeted voters in Pitman on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FAMILY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (68%); FAMILY LEAVE (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



854 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: For Series, 'Human Yankee Cartwheel' Spins No More

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
The Yankees are in the World Series, but something is missing. That sledgehammer of a voice, wielded in ways that never failed to get attention: a ''Yo! Mr. Steinbrenner!'' or a ''Gatorade man! Move!'' That exuberantly loyal look: a Yankee cap on game day, or maybe full pinstripes. 
 A World Series without Penny Crone on television from Yankee Stadium? 
 In one word, yes. Ms. Crone, 62, the television reporter a critic once called ''the human Yankee cartwheel,'' is no longer on television, where she made a career of making the hysteria even more deliciously hysterical. She was dropped by WNYW-TV at the end of 2005.
 She is not doing cartwheels, either. She broke her left leg in a fall several weeks ago on 57th Street. She has been watching the series on the wide-screen television in her Midtown apartment, her leg on a couch.
 The Yankees' absence from the World Series in recent years means that this is the team's first appearance since 1996 that has not been blessed by Ms. Crone and her singular brand of in-your-face reporting. She is not one of those shy persons Garrison Keillor is always talking about on public radio. As a journalist, she personified pushiness, asking the questions other reporters did not. 
 Early in Derek Jeter's career, she took a look at him in street clothes, and wondered about the fit of his slacks.
 ''I walked right up to Derek Jeter and I said, 'Derek, why don't you wear tighter pants?' '' she recalled. ''And what did Derek say? Not too much. He looked at me like I was nuts.''
 So where is she now? With the real estate company Prudential Douglas Elliman. She recently was cited for a Chairman's Circle Gold Award for 2008, a sign that she had vaulted into the top 5 percent of Prudential brokers after doing more than $15 million worth of deals. That award sits between two Emmys on a table beside her living room couch.
 Her secret? Well, no one is saying she has mastered the art of the soft sell. 
 Steven L. James, the president of Douglas Elliman's Manhattan brokerage, described her as an ''unbelievable bundle of energy with this bigger-than-life personality'' and said he knew ''within 10 seconds'' that he was going to hire her. 
 ''But at the same time,'' he said, ''I thought, I'm out of my mind.'' 
 ''She takes no hostages,'' Mr. James added. ''That was one of my worries, but I watched her on a complicated deal where her personality just couldn't be at the forefront, and she did it. She actually pulled it off. She took the back seat, the quiet role, which I'm sure was very unfamiliar terrain for her.''
 As Ms. Crone watched Game 1 on Wednesday night, she said she had found a line of work where people do not react like the fans at Yankee Stadium.
 ''I mean,'' she said, ''they don't walk in their apartments and go, 'Yesssss! I love this place!' ''
 There is excitement in showing pricey co-ops and condos, even in a recession, Ms. Crone said, adding that ''getting the deal done is a real turn-on.''
 But, she said, ''it ain't like going out to Yankee Stadium, not just the World Series but any game.'' Ms. Crone explained her love for the Yankees by noting that she was ''five generations Manhattan.'' 
 Never mind that George Steinbrenner once asked if she were a streetwalker.
 And ''Gatorade man''? She yelled that at someone who walked into the stadium with a large barrel of -- well, you know. He was blocking her shot, which ruins everything in television news. The man turned out to be Willie Randolph, a Yankees coach at the time and later the manager of the Mets.
 Those were not the only classic moments in her 15 years at WNYW-TV. (She left Channel 5 for WCBS-TV in 2002, only to return in 2005.)
 There was the day she went to a bagel factory and the anchor introduced her as ''an industrial accident waiting to happen.'' 
 There was the day she covered a cheerleading team by outfitting herself like the people she was covering, with a pleated skirt that was on the short side, a long blond wig and pompoms.
 And there was the time she interviewed Yogi Berra and called him ''Yogi Bear.''
 She has an explanation for that.
 ''My husband told me that Yogi Berra was named after Yogi Bear,'' she said, ''so I thought his name was Yogi Bear. So we're sitting in his living room, me on one side, Yogi Berra on the other, the fireplace, and I said, 'Good evening, Mr. Bear.' ''
 Game 1 dragged on, and her 23-year-old son, Travis Forney, wandered in from the kitchen, declaring that the Phillies were off to ''a quality start.'' Yankee stalwart that she is, she countered that giving up two runs was a lousy start, a concept so distressing it brought silence to the couch.
 ''Yeah, speechless,'' Mr. Forney said. ''It's tough to get her to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Penny Crone, a former WNYW-TV reporter, watched Game 1 at home in Manhattan with her son, Travis Forney, 23.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX DI SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); WRITERS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



855 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: As Donors Focus on AIDS, Child Illnesses Languish

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
Diarrhea kills 1.5 million young children a year in developing countries -- more than AIDS, malaria and measles combined -- but only 4 in 10 of those who need the oral rehydration solution that can prevent death for pennies get it. 
 ''All the attention has gone to more glamorous diseases, but this basic thing has been left behind,'' said Mickey Chopra, chief of health at Unicef, which is trying to put diarrhea back on the global health agenda. ''It's a forgotten disease.''
 His observation lies at the heart of a wider debate over whether the United States and other rich nations spend too much on AIDS, which requires lifelong medications, compared with diarrhea and the other leading killer of children, pneumonia, both of which can be treated inexpensively.
 The debate is flaring at a time of great opportunity and risk. Recent data has documented remarkable progress in reducing child mortality and treating people with AIDS. Foreign assistance, which has often delivered disappointing results, is helping save millions of lives, the new figures show. 
 But as the United States and other rich nations hit by the global financial crisis face their own daunting challenges, there is heightened competition for foreign assistance. President Obama has proposed a 2 percent increase in spending on H.I.V. and AIDS for 2010 and a 6 percent rise for maternal and child health, according to the Global Health Council, but the disparity in American spending on AIDS and the big child killers remains stark. 
 In Africa's two most populous nations, Nigeria and Ethiopia, the number of people who died of AIDS in 2007 -- 237,000 -- was less than half the 540,000 children under 5 who died of pneumonia and diarrhea. But this year, the $750 million the United States is spending on H.I.V. and AIDS in the two countries not only dwarfs the $35 million it is spending there on maternal and child health, but is also more than the $646 million it is spending on maternal and child health in all the world's countries combined. 
 ''AIDS is still underfunded, no question,'' said Jeremy Shiffman, a political scientist at Syracuse University who has documented global health spending patterns. ''But maternal, newborn and child mortality is a tremendous tragedy and gets peanuts.'' 
 Dr. Ezekiel J. Emanuel -- a bioethicist, White House official and brother of Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff -- has contended that international aid for health is limited and would save more lives if increases focused on maternal health and the ''mundane but deadly diseases'' that kill young children. Such choices are necessary, he and a co-author wrote in the Journal of the American Medical Association in April, ''if the United States is going to shoulder the burden of choosing which lives to save in the developing world.'' 
 Jeffrey D. Sachs, the Columbia University economist, countered that wealthy donors still spent far too little on global health and rejected what he called the wrong-headed idea that ''we need to make a terrible and tragic choice between AIDS or pneumonia.'' The United States has invested heavily in the fight against AIDS, and other wealthy nations should pick up more of the cost of other global health priorities, he says.
 ''Rather than tearing down what's working, we should continue to invest in what's needed,'' he said.
 Mr. Obama has promised to put greater focus on child and maternal health and proposed a 53 percent increase next year in money to fight malaria, a major killer of African children, the Global Health Council estimated. But he has also committed to major increases in money to fight AIDS in coming years that, if enacted, would ensure that AIDS remained America's global health priority, constituting over 70 percent of its global health spending, he said.
 International commitments to combat HIV and AIDS rose at an average annual rate of 48 percent from 1998 to 2007, reaching $7.4 billion and making up almost half of donor financing for global health, according to Professor Shiffman's analysis of data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
 Still, more than half the people with the disease who need drug treatment still are not getting it. Two million died in 2007, according to the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS.
 The toll of women and children who die of easily preventable or curable conditions is even higher. Pneumonia alone killed 2 million children under age 5, and diarrhea 1.5 million more, out of the almost 9 million young children who died last year. 
 Dr. Olivier Fontaine, who described himself as the only person at the World Health Organization working full time on childhood diarrheal diseases, said health ministry managers in poor countries knew diarrhea was a crucial cause of child mortality, but focused on other diseases that have gotten more attention and financing from abroad.
 Two days after her month-old son's bout of diarrhea began, Marcia Mankense, 23, took him to a hospital here in Johannesburg where a doctor administered fluids through an intravenous line threaded into his scalp. 
 Before his birth, she said, no one told her she should give him oral rehydration salts -- known as O.R.S. -- as soon as he got diarrhea, though she was counseled on the need to get tested for H.I.V. Nor did anyone give her a packet of the salts to take home.
 ''He's my firstborn and I know nothing about kids,'' she said, exhausted next to his crib after days of vigil. ''I just feel like I need to be here for him. What if he's crying?''
 Public health experts agree there is tremendous potential to lower child deaths from diarrhea and pneumonia substantially. New methods of distributing rehydration salts and cheap zinc tablets, also recommended for diarrhea, are being tested, including giving them away during national campaigns to hand out antimalarial bed nets and to vaccinate children against measles. 
 ''Everyone should have O.R.S. at home like we have Band-Aids,'' Dr. Fontaine said.
 For an extra $3 billion to $4 billion in coming years, children in poor countries could be inoculated against pneumonia and the rotavirus that causes about a third of diarrhea deaths, according to the GAVI Alliance, a broad group of donors. 
 On the diarrhea ward at the hospital here, most of the babies and young children had mothers patiently sitting next to their cribs, comforting them. But one little boy, just 2 months old, was alone. His mother, a 10th grader, was at school. He had come in dehydrated, with sunken eyes, too enervated to even cry. But after being given fluids intravenously, life flowed back into him. 
 When he howled, a nurse or one of the mothers would look into his eyes. He would fall quiet, his cries muting to soft mewling, his eyes widening curiously.
 ''He wasn't even crying when he got here,'' Mrs. Mankense said happily. ''Now we can hear his voice. He's naughty!'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marcia Mankense's son, Adel, was dehydrated from diarrhea, an easily treatable condition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIELLA FURRER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Early Childhood Deaths: Diarrhea and pneumonia are the two leading causes of death for children younger than 5 years old in developing countries. The number of children who die from these easily treatable diseases outnumbers AIDS deaths in developing countries. American spending on AIDS relief is much greater than for maternal and child health care in these countries.(Sources: UNAIDS/WHO
 UNICEF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); MALARIA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEASLES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); AIDS POLICY (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); PNEUMONIA (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (72%); BIOETHICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); WRITERS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); RAHM EMANUEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



856 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Sprint Slows Defections, But Loses $478 Million

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Sprint Nextel reported Thursday that fewer customers are fleeing its cellphone service, providing some evidence that the company's turnaround efforts were having an impact.
 Sprint said that during the third quarter, it lost 801,000 of its most profitable customers, those subscribers who sign contracts for cellphone service. However, the losses were considerably lower than in previous quarters. The company reported a defection of 991,000 customers in the second quarter, and 1.25 million customers in the first quarter. 
 Daniel R. Hesse, chief executive, told investors in a conference call that Sprint was just beginning to turn the corner. 
 ''We had some successes in the third quarter, but we still have much progress to make,'' Mr. Hesse said. ''We are far from satisfied that we have not returned to subscriber growth.''
 Sprint, the third-largest wireless carrier in the United States after AT&T and Verizon, is slowly beginning to change the public perception of poor customer service and call quality, Mr. Hesse said. The company is selling new phone models that it hopes will help retain customers. ''A year ago, our device lineup was considered a weakness,'' Mr. Hesse said in an interview. ''And now, a lot of people consider us to have one of the strongest lineups in the industry.''
 In June, Sprint introduced the Palm Pre, its sleek smartphone, and recently announced plans to begin selling the Palm Pixi, a smartphone geared toward younger users. In addition, Sprint began selling the HTC Hero this month. It also said it would begin selling in November the Samsung Moment, which will also run on Android, Google's mobile operating system. 
 The company said Thursday that it lost $478 million, or 17 cents a share, in the quarter, compared with $326 million, or 11 cents, in the same period a year ago.
 Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of 15 cents a share, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. Sprint's stock fell 15 cents, or 4.63 percent, to $3.09 Thursday.
 Revenue declined 9 percent, to $8.04 billion, beating analysts' forecast of a loss of $8.09 billion.
 Sprint is increasing the number of customers who pay in advance for cellphone service, which has helped offset the loss of business consumers. The company has been heavily marketing its Boost Mobile brand, which offers a $50-a-month unlimited voice, data and texting. In July, Spring announced plans to acquire Virgin Mobile USA, a prepaid operator. Prepaid customers, who do not sign a long-term contract, do not generate as much revenue as postpaid customers who sign contracts. 
 ''If you look at what elements of the industry are seeing growth, it's prepaid,'' Mr. Hesse said. ''Absolutely, we'd like to be the leader in the prepaid, but it's still a smaller part of Sprint's business.''
 Sprint's difficulties in retaining subscribers have been worsened by the recession and the saturation of the wireless industry, said Craig Moffett, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''Sprint is a better company than it was a year ago, but unfortunately, it's a less attractive industry than it was a year ago,'' he said.
 Mr. Moffett said the mobile industry was going to become even more challenging for all of the wireless carriers. ''This is a company that is learning how to swim just as the water is getting drained out of the swimming pool,'' he said. ''There's not enough growth in the wireless market for them to pull off a turnaround.'' 
 Mr. Hesse emphasized the importance of Sprint's next-generation wireless network. The company has introduced the service, in conjunction with its affiliate Clearwire, in 17 American cities, with plans to continue deployment next year. ''We think 4G will move the needle,'' he said. ''We'll be the only game in town in 2010. That's a big deal.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about quarterly results from Sprint described incorrectly one forecast for the quarter from investment analysts. The analysts had predicted revenue of $8.09 billion; they did not predict that the company would lose that amount.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sprint's chief, Daniel Hesse, cited successes but said it still had ''much progress to make.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PREPAID WIRELESS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (96%); GOOGLE INC (81%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); VIRGIN MOBILE USA INC (51%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (96%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%)

PERSON: DANIEL R HESSE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



857 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: When It Counts: Getting Involved in Election Issues

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Students learn about the issues on Tuesday's ballot in their home district and how they can get involved. 

 BODY:
Overview | Do most Americans feel helpless when it comes to the problems our country faces? How can students feel empowered? In this lesson, students learn about the candidates and issues that are on the ballot in their home district and how they can get involved on issues they care about.
Materials | Computers with word processing and video software and Internet access, photocopies of a mock election ballot and a video camera.
Warm-Up | Invite students to share their memories of the 2008 vote. What was the biggest election? What do they remember most from the Obama and McCain campaigns? What were the campaign promises?

Now ask students about the current election season: What races and initiatives are voters in our area and our state voting on? If students have trouble answering these questions, supply the missing information, but also use this opportunity to contrast this time with the previous presidential election season. Ask: What have you heard and seen? Encourage them to think about campaign signs, television commercials, televised debates, news media coverage, public rallies and conversations at home and school.
Wrap up by choosing a common concern like the unemployment rate, crime or health care, or ask students to name the issue they believe is most on people's minds. Ask them to offer ideas about how the election winners can help address this issue, as well as the limits of their powers. You may wish to give the example of a small-town mayor who is not able to single-handedly solve the health care crisis in America but can start a local initiative to get local people to exercise more and eat healthy foods.
Related | In his Op-Ed page piece "Changing the World," Bob Herbert addresses the powerlessness he believes most Americans feel regarding the crises our nation faces - and the dangers of giving in to complacency. He writes:
This passivity and sense of helplessness most likely stems from the refusal of so many Americans over the past few decades to acknowledge any sense of personal responsibility for the policies and choices that have led the country into such a dismal state of affairs, and to turn their backs on any real obligation to help others who were struggling.
Those chickens have come home to roost. Being an American has become a spectator sport.
Most Americans watch the news the way you'd watch a ballgame, or a long-running television series, believing that they have no more control over important real-life events than a viewer would have over a coach's strategy or a script for "Law & Order."
Read the column with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Do you personally fit Bob Herbert's description of how most Americans feel these days? Why or why not?
        
What issues does Herbert identify in his column as contributing to the sense of helplessness in America?
        
What events does Herbert believe could not have happened if people had always felt this way?
        
Why are these events important to national and world history?
        
What does Herbert suggest people do to help undo this sense of disempowerment?
Activity | You may wish to use some or all of the suggested activities below with your students.

        
Issue Fact Sheets - Using local newspapers, media Web sites and other reliable sources, have students find all the offices that citizens in your district will vote on, along with any issues that will appear on the ballot. Have them research each candidate's background and stance on important topics and study all sides of the issues on the ballot. (If there are none, you may want to assign one that will appear elsewhere.) Then have students create fact sheets to display in your classroom or in a prominent place where voters will see them.
        
Personal Statements - Have students write personal statements that explain who and what they would vote for if they were eligible to do so, based on the research described above. Or have them write about how empowered (or disempowered) they feel as citizens, thinking back to how they answered this question right after reading Mr. Herbert's column. Questions to consider: Have your feelings changed since completing the other activities? If so, what made you feel more encouraged? If you still feel disempowered, what people or groups do you think will turn things around? Or have students visit our Student Opinion question inspired by this Op-Ed article and add their comments.
        
Mock Election - Hold a mock election in your classroom, using a ballot that has all the offices and issues that will appear on the real one. Be sure that students can cast their votes privately and anonymously. If you have had students create fact sheets for each office and issue (see the first activity above), remove them from the polling place and hold the election quietly and respectfully. Have a volunteer election board count the votes. Ask all students to compute the percentages of the total number of votes each candidate or affirmative/negative response received.
        
Poll Visits - Have students visit their local polling place on Election Day to see citizenship in action. If possible, they can briefly interview volunteers, asking why they do it and to describe the voter turnout. Or they could write descriptive pieces about what they observe there, and share their observations with the class.
        
Voter Interviews and Articles - Have students conduct on-the-street interviews, perhaps as voters leave the polling place, asking whether they feel the sense of helplessness that Mr. Herbert describes. Then have them ask about what we as individuals can do to help solve the most pressing problems. Require students to write about their findings in articles to be submitted to the school newspaper.
        
New Clubs - Encourage students to start a club or a new chapter of an existing national club that encourages greater civic participation. During their initial meetings, have them determine which issue to address first and then encourage them to organize a rally, create a Web site or record a public service announcement to post on the Internet and/or broadcast on your school's television network.
Going Further | Have students research an initiative started at the local level by a teenager or young adult or aimed at politically active youth. They might begin by looking at Teens Turning Green, which was founded by a teenager to be a "national youth movement" focused on reducing toxic environmental exposure and educating people about greener alternatives, or consider an article about the Pakistani youth who pick up garbage, or read a story about Jonathan Krohn, who started speaking to large groups in the conservative movement when he was 14.
Remind students of what Mr. Herbert said in his column: "It can start with just a few small steps." Maybe, he wrote, "you want to speak up publicly about an important issue, or host a house party or perhaps arrange a meeting of soon-to-be dismissed employees, or parents at a troubled school." Then have students develop ideas for their own such initiatives and share them with the class. Which ideas seem most viable and why? Encourage students to actually start their initiatives.
Alternatively or additionally, have students create a short documentary film about their experiences in completing the activities in this lesson. They may wish to focus the film on the election or their take on the state of political activism. Or they might use their film to persuade other young people to get more involved in their communities, offering specific ideas about how to get started. Host a premiere for the film, inviting families, friends, elected officials and community organizers to the screening. They can post their films on SchoolTube.
Teachers: How have you encouraged your students to take active roles in our democracy and to feel empowered to effect change, even when they are not yet old enough to vote?
Standards | From McREL, for grades 6-12:
Civics
1. - Understands ideas about civic life, politics and government.
9. - Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy.
10. - Understands the roles of voluntarism and organized groups in American social and political life.
13. - Understands the character of American political and social conflict and factors that tend to prevent or lower its intensity.
14. - Understands issues concerning the disparities between ideals and reality in American political and social life.
20. - Understands the roles of political parties, campaigns, elections and associations and groups in American politics.
25. -Understands issues regarding personal, political and economic rights.
27. - Understands how certain character traits enhance citizens' ability to fulfill personal and civic responsibilities.
28. - Understands how participation in civic and political life can help citizens attain individual and public goals.
29. - Understands the importance of political leadership, public service and a knowledgeable citizenry in American constitutional democracy.
Language Arts
1. - Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
2. - Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
3. - Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written compositions.
4. - Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
Reading
5. - Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
7. - Uses reading skills and strategies to understand and interpret a variety of informational text.
Viewing
9. - Uses viewing skills and strategies to understand and interpret visual media.

        
Bronx Students Finance and Build a School in Africa
        
How Can You Help Others?
        
Thanksgiving as a Teachable Moment
        
How Would You Like to Help Our World?
        
Resources on Service Learning and Community Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); MAYORS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (51%) Community Service; Elections; American Government; Civil Rights; Current Events; Elections in the United States; Federal Government; Human Systems; Individual Rights; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literacy Skills; Persuasive Writing; Politics and Policy; Power and Authority; Social Studies; State and Local Government

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



858 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Where 30 Is Ancient, Youthful at 80

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Anyone hazarding a guess about the demographics of Manhattan might name the East Village the youth capital of the island. It's a place where anyone over 30 starts to notice that her standard fashion go-to's are suddenly has-beens and that everyone else in the environs has preternaturally dewy skin. One friend decamped from the neighborhood when she turned 32 and decided that that was too young to be the oldest person in her building -- too young, in fact, to be the oldest person anywhere, other than the prom, maybe.
 But the East Village, like every neighborhood in New York, has an elderly population, people who have seen more in their time than a bustling coffee shop's worth of twentysomething stylists. The older crowd is not always seen; the elderly may be too frail to get out, or when they are out, they fade into the background, mentally Photoshopped out. In Community District 3, which encompasses the East Village, the Lower East Side and Chinatown, 31 percent of people who are 65 or older are living at or below poverty level, the second-highest rate for the elderly in New York City, according to the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy. And poverty tends to render their ranks even less visible. 
 In an oversize room on East 12th Street this week, a group of 100 or so people, many of them over 80, demanded the visual attention of anyone in the vicinity. There was no ignoring the blinking lights on a woman's visor or the glittery cat-eye sunglasses on another woman. The Statue of Liberty graced the crowd with her presence, as did Charlie Chaplin, in the form of an 82-year-old woman, originally from Shanghai, with a fake mustache and a black sequined top. It was noted to one tiny woman, 86, that she had a stuffed puppy lodged in the brim of her silver hat.
 ''I know,'' she said. ''I put it there.'' She was going for a look inspired by Dorothy.
 They were all attending the Halloween party of the Educational Alliance's Sirovich Senior Center, which offers social services, free classes and meals for a pittance. Leave it to young people to dress up as ghosts, ghouls and other forms of the unliving; this crowd was injecting pure flash into their regalia. ''Who am I?'' said Ricarda Torrez, 72, dressed like a movie star at the spa, with a pink towel wrapped turban-style around her head. ''I'm me!''
 The center, everyone volunteering there seems to think, has a particular vibrancy, which is probably what volunteers at similar centers around the city would also say, or else they'd find another place to pass out juice and hear people's stories. The center did not reek in any obvious way of its East Village location -- there were no aging punk rockers or transsexuals with canes. 
 But the director, Terry Gregory, will occasionally let it slip that he is a former playwright -- he said his work was performed in experimental theaters in the neighborhood in the '70s -- and his sensibility infects the place. A few years back, he had members perform a dance piece, set to bolero music, that depicted a day in the life of the Sirovich Center. Glenn Miller plays at some dance classes, but also a mix tape that the instructor, Kerry Ann King, calls ''English People and Their Problems'' -- Coldplay and the Verve. ''And they love it,'' Ms. King said. 
 At the Halloween party, 35 or so contestants in a costume contest shimmied their shoulders, first to ''Monster Mash'' and then, just as easily, to Missy Elliott's ''Get Ur Freak On.'' Mr. Gregory was thrilled to see so many of the center's Asian members in costume; he had worked hard to make that happen. And why was it so important that Asian immigrants in their 80s dress up like comic legends or Lady Liberty? ''I want them to see the possibilities of life,'' Mr. Gregory said. 
 At the contest, Chaplin lost to the Queen of England, otherwise known as Norma Fernandez, 60, in a gold dress, who had covered the cane she uses every day with gold lame. A year ago, Ms. Fernandez had been having a hard time emotionally, and was not a likely contestant, much less a winner. Now she accepted a $50 check with poise, bowed like royalty, and then, arthritis or no, jumped up and down with glee. Later, she said, she thought she would leave the lame on her cane permanently.
 Maybe people will even notice. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Halloween party and costume contest at the Sirovich Senior Center in the East Village. The winner? The Queen of England, with a cane covered with gold lame. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); AGING (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); AGING TRENDS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); HALLOWEEN (60%); BRITISH MONARCHS (59%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



859 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: President Is Stepping Down From a Shrunken Miramax

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The pilot light at Miramax keeps growing fainter.
 The Walt Disney Company said on Friday that Daniel Battsek would step down as president of Miramax Films at the end of the year. 
 On Oct. 2, Disney eliminated about 50 jobs from the art-house unit -- leaving only about 20 people, including Mr. Battsek -- and reduced the number of films it released each year by half, to three. Mr. Battsek, who has worked at Disney for 18 years, was displeased with that decision, which came shortly after the ouster of Dick Cook as chairman of the studio.
 Mr. Cook's successor, Rich Ross, called Mr. Battsek's departure ''a mutual agreement'' in a statement, which went on to praise his work on films including ''The Queen'' and concluded with warm wishes on future endeavors. 
 In an e-mail message to his staff, Mr. Battsek also called the decision mutual, adding that Miramax's New York offices would close. ''The very best chance of success for Miramax is for the company to be located in Los Angeles,'' Mr. Battsek wrote. ''I'm very proud of all the great work we have accomplished here at Miramax and equally proud of my overall career at Disney.''
 Back in the days when it was run by Harvey and Bob Weinstein, Miramax pumped out pictures like ''Pulp Fiction'' and ''Shakespeare in Love'' that were both critical and commercial hits. While it has continued to deliver the former -- ''Doubt,'' ''No Country for Old Men'' -- breakout hits have been harder to find. Recent films like ''Cheri,'' ''Extract'' and ''Adventureland'' have been virtually ignored by audiences.
 Disney's decision to keep Miramax running in skeletal form reflects a pilot-light strategy: shutting it completely might have stripped too much value out of the brand and film library. 
 Specialty labels like Miramax were originally intended to tap a growing market for cerebral, low-budget films -- and make their corporate owners competitive at the Oscars. But soaring marketing costs and a glut of art films dented the profitability and reliability of boutique divisions. Add in slumping DVD sales and worsening international TV deals, and the economics are very difficult.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); FILM (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (73%); LIBRARIES (73%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%)

PERSON: BOB WEINSTEIN (58%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



860 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; MAGIC 95, NETS 85; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Carter Is Hurt in Return, but He Helps Spoil Nets' Home Opener

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

 BODY:
The Orlando Magic pulled up here Friday night in the Nets' latest reunion caravan, equipped with the prerequisite handshakes, high fives and hugs.
 Those were given by Vince Carter, who returned to the Izod Center for the first time since being jettisoned from the Nets and landing with the tailored-for-the-playoffs Magic. 
 Carter left in the second quarter with a sprained ankle, but he played an early role in dealing the Nets their second consecutive loss, a 95-85 defeat in their home debut. 
 Carter said he was hopeful that the injury would not force him to miss a game. ''I'm just going to be smart about it,'' he said. ''It's a long season and I'm already feeling better than I did before.''
 Carter scored 16 points in his abbreviated stint, when he and Dwight Howard turned the game into a two-man dunk contest. Carter stepped on the foot of his former teammate Devin Harris with just over three minutes remaining in the first half. 
 Ryan Anderson, who was also dealt to Orlando in the trade, contributed 16 points while starting in place of the suspended Rashard Lewis. Howard collected 22 rebounds and 20 points. 
 Carter follows the figurative footsteps of Richard Jefferson and Jason Kidd, recently departed Nets shipped away for payroll purging and salary relief.
 Those three will jostle for postseason position -- Carter with the Magic, Kidd with the Dallas Mavericks and Jefferson as a freshly minted San Antonio Spur. In their absence, the Nets will try to stave off basketball parody, not N.B.A. parity.
 Carter averaged 23.6 points and 5.8 rebounds as a Net. His 8,834 points with the organization are second in franchise history, behind Buck Williams.
 But Carter never led the Nets to the finals. The organization figured it would not get back to the finals with the same core group, one reason for shipping Jefferson. Kidd had nudged for a trade. 
 The Nets dealt Carter on draft day in a great example of the chasm between the league's haves and have-nots. The Nets acquired Courtney Lee, Rafer Alston and Tony Battie. 
 Carter, 32, received a standing ovation, but the arena was largely how he left it. As the starting lineups were announced, pockets of empty seats remained. The announced attendance was 17,525. 
 Carter opened the game with a dunk over Brook Lopez, and assisted on Howard's dunk for Orlando's next score. He rolled his ankle driving to the basket and pounded the court before retreating to the locker room. In 14 minutes, he made 6 of 8 shots. 
 ''I didn't think he was playing very well anyways,'' Orlando Coach Stan Van Gundy deadpanned. ''It didn't hurt us to play without him.''
 Van Gundy added: ''It's a shame it had to happen on a night like this. I've been on the other side on some of those nights with Vince where you don't enjoy it, and I was ready to sit back and enjoy one of his great ones tonight.''
 The Magic led, 50-44, at halftime. J. J. Redick replaced Carter to start the second half. Anderson's 8 points in the third quarter expanded Orlando's double-digit lead. Brandon Bass kept it there by scoring all 13 of his points in the second half.
 It seemed fitting that the Nets started the home portion of their season against Orlando. They glimpsed their past while trying to shore up a future that is still murky, but may come into clearer focus during the season. 
 The Nets feature a youthful roster whose projected starters are the youngest in the league, at an average age of 22.8. But the team is stuck between its current arena in New Jersey and a prospective new home in Brooklyn. It is also between owners as the Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorovtries to gain a controlling stake. 
 Last week, Brett Yormark, chief executive of Nets Sports and Entertainment, announced that the Nets may play in Newark at the Prudential Center for two years while they wait for construction of the Brooklyn arena, which has been delayed by economic and legal problems. 
 The Nets' attendance has been poor at the Izod Center. The arena played to 75.8 percent of its full capacity last season, 27th among the league's 30 venues.
 Although preseason games usually result in a lower attendance than regular-season contests, the Nets averaged 14,255 people during two preseason games in Newark, probably a result of playing in a larger city with easier mass transit options.
 The Nets' lease at the Izod Center runs through 2013, and an $8 million penalty will be imposed if it is broken for a destination other than Brooklyn. But The Bergen Record reported last week that officials from the Izod Center and the Prudential Center were nearing a detente that would allow the Nets to depart for Newark with no penalty.
 In the meantime, the team's young roster will plead ignorance to expectations. Lee, the 22nd overall selection in last year's draft, was a starter for Orlando last season and had a team-high 18 points Friday. 
 ''I don't think it's an easy situation because you have to be honest,'' Nets Coach Lawrence Frank said of Lee. ''The reality is for him, look, this is one of the things that happens for an N.B.A. player, that guys do get traded.''
 Carter's reunion tour could very well continue on Sunday when the Magic plays at Toronto, his original team. The Nets, meanwhile, will continue in their search for where, exactly, they are headed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vince Carter with his former Nets teammate Brook Lopez. Carter scored 16 points before leaving the game with an ankle injury.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL KOSTROUN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS INJURIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); COINS & COINAGE (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); ATHLETES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC (94%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



861 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Pushing Fresh Produce Instead of Cookies at the Corner Market

BYLINE: By KEVIN GRANVILLE

 BODY:
Of all the changes coming to Francisco Baez's cramped corner grocery store in Newark's North Ward, he is most excited about the new scanner system at the two checkouts.
 But Newark officials, who are paying for the new equipment, are most interested in the new refrigeration units that will be installed near the front of the store. Those new refrigerators, to be filled with fresh fruits and vegetables, are part of a new effort by Newark -- with variations in other cities across the country -- to improve the diets of low-income residents. 
 Until recently, small corner grocery stores were seen by public health officials as part of the obesity problem. 
 The stores, predominantly family-owned, offered convenience, but the accent was on snack chips, canned goods and sugary drinks. Now, because they are often the sole source of groceries in areas with no full-size supermarket, the stores are becoming linchpins in public health campaigns. 
 ''If you are educating people to make good choices, but those choices aren't available nearby and they don't have a car to drive out to the suburbs to the supermarket, or an hour to ride two buses to get there,'' said Kai Siedenburg, of the Community Food Security Coalition, a group based in Portland, Ore., that promotes access to healthy food, ''then it's really hard for them to make good choices.''
 Store owners in Cleveland, New York, Louisville and elsewhere are being approached by public health organizations and economic development agencies with offers of new equipment, marketing expertise or neighborhood promotions to encourage them to stock more fresh produce, whole wheat bread and other healthy offerings. 
 Newark's program combines community health concerns with targeted grants to reinvigorate stores and neighborhoods. 
 ''Bags of chips and cans of soda are the options in too many of our small groceries and bodegas,'' said Stefan Pryor, a deputy mayor and chairman of the Brick City Development Corporation, Newark's economic development agency. But, he added, ''With the thin margins that small groceries operate under, it's unrealistic to expect them to make the investment themselves.'' 
 Other initiatives do it differently. The Cleveland Corner Store Project encourages small groceries to sell fruit near the check-out -- prime locations where candy and chips are usually found -- and promotes these stores with sidewalk signs and posters and at neighborhood health events. New York's ''Healthy Bodegas'' initiative has reached out to 1,000 stores in a variety of ways, including helping owners secure zoning permits to allow fruit and vegetable displays on the sidewalk. In Louisville, two small groceries were awarded $20,000 this year to expand their offerings of fresh produce. 
 The idea of using corner stores in campaigns to improve diets has spread from a few cities over the last decade -- among them, Philadelphia, New York, Baltimore, Hartford and Oakland, Calif. -- to ''probably a hundred or more organizations that are now either starting interventions or that are in the planning stages,'' Ms. Siedenburg said. 
 Rural areas, too, that have lost local supermarkets to distant big-box retailers are looking for ways to encourage convenience stores to offer healthier choices. 
 ''There are all these neat programs popping up,'' said James Johnson-Piett, a consultant to Newark's program who previously worked with the Food Trust, a nonprofit group that developed some groundbreaking initiatives in Philadelphia. 
 The movement is driven, in part, by a decades-old problem: the paucity of food shopping options in poor neighborhoods. In Newark, with three supermarkets for a population of 279,000, the city says nearly 40 percent of the money spent on food by residents is spent outside the city. 
 Campaigns to entice supermarkets, with their expansive produce departments, not to mention scores of local jobs, have met with mixed results. In Philadelphia, a ShopRite opened last year in a low-income neighborhood with help from a Pennsylvania program that provided a $1 million grant and $7 million in federal tax credits. New York is considering a similar plan that would include tax and zoning incentives, but few other cities have such a program in place. 
 Joseph F. Ritchie, who until recently was executive director of the Brick City Development Corporation, said big chains were used to building stores of 50,000 to 70,000 square feet in the suburbs, and typically wanted larger lot sizes than were available in city neighborhoods. (Mr. Baez's Food Plaza store is about 3,000 square feet.) He said that the chains worried that local residents would not buy the high-margin prepared foods and delicacies that buoy a supermarket's profit. Finally, he said, there were worries about crime. 
 But lately, concern over urban ''food deserts'' has become a rallying cry, as a drumbeat of medical studies link obesity and diet-related illnesses like diabetes and heart disease to a lack of access to healthy food. Last year, The American Journal of Epidemiology reported that people with no supermarket near their homes were up to 46 percent less likely to have a healthy diet than those with more shopping options.
 ''In the absence of making gains with supermarkets, we're trying to take what's already there and make it better,'' said Jerry Jones, executive director of Hartford Food System, a 31-year-old nonprofit group in Connecticut. 
 The group encourages store owners to replace 5 percent of their junk food and soft drinks each year with regular groceries, including low-salt selections and produce. In return, it provides the stores with market research on what neighborhood shoppers are looking for and negotiates low prices from a big produce wholesaler. 
 Forty small groceries have signed up and are entitled to display a sticker that says ''Healthy Food Retailer,'' Mr. Jones said. In 2008, after the program had been under way for about year, the Hartford Food System took measurements and reported an overall 8 percent switch of food inventories from junk food to regular groceries. 
 This low-budget approach is echoed in Cleveland's corner store program, a joint effort of the city's public health department and Case Western Reserve University. 
 Earlier this year, Anne Gross, who with her husband, Gary, has run the Convenient Food Mart in the city's Near West Side for 36 years, agreed to push aside some of the candy at the front of the store and make room for two wicker baskets of fruit. The program provided colorful signs encouraging healthy eating. 
 It also promoted her store with events like a cooking demonstration in her parking lot with samples of banana bread, free cookbooks, and sign-ups for local cooking classes. 
 The result: a 20 percent increase in fruit sales this last summer. ''Bananas are No. 1,'' said Mrs. Gross, 65. ''After that, cherries have done very well.''
 Matt Russell, a coordinator with Case Western's Center for Health Promotion Research who asked Mrs. Gross to participate, said a big part of any initiative was choosing the right store owners. 
 Selling produce also takes more work than bags of cookies or chips. ''There's obviously some risk in taking on new products for these stores. We've talked to them about issues like spoilage,'' Mr. Russell said. ''It's different than a lot of the products they already sell. You know, a can of soup can sit there for a long time.''
 In Newark, the Fresh Food program met with 80 store owners before choosing Mr. Baez to be the first of a handful to quality for a grant, Mr. Johnson-Piett said. 
 ''These are folks who are saying, 'I think I can move fruits and vegetables.' That's what you want to hear,'' he said. ''You can't spend all your time trying to cajole people to do something they don't want to do.''
 Mr. Baez said he liked the idea of offering customers an expanded selection of produce. ''Will I make any more money?'' he asked. ''I have no idea.'' 
 In Cleveland, Mrs. Gross still sells her customers beer, doughnuts, lottery tickets and other essentials. ''As a business person, I have to provide to them what they want,'' she said. But she said she is willing to try to improve the community's health, one banana at a time. ''Even if it just changes a couple of people's habits,'' she said, ''it would be a huge benefit.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anne Gross runs a food mart in Cleveland. (B1)
 A nutrition education and healthy food promotional tent was recently set up outside of a Convenient Food Mart in Cleveland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); RETAILERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITIES (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); SNACK FOODS (74%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (73%); SOFT DRINKS (73%); NUTRITION (71%); OBESITY (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); SUBURBS (70%); ZONING (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



862 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumer Spending Slipped in September

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumer spending in the United States fell in September for the first time in five months as the increase from the cash-for-clunkers auto rebate program faded, data showed on Friday, adding to fears that consumers may be pulling back as they head into the last quarter of the year. 
 The Commerce Department said spending fell 0.5 percent, the largest decline since December, after an upwardly revised 1.4 percent increase in August. Consumer spending in August was previously reported to have advanced 1.3 percent.
 September's decline was in line with expectations. Consumer spending, which normally accounts for over two-thirds of economic activity, in August was bolstered by the popular ''cash-for-clunkers program that gave discounts on some new motor vehicle purchases.
 The program, which ended in August, contributed to a jump in consumer spending in the third quarter and helped to pull the economy out of its worst recession since the 1930s.
 Spending adjusted for inflation fell 0.6 percent in September, also the largest decline since December, after rising 1 percent the prior month, the Commerce Department said.
 Personal income was flat last month after rising 0.1 percent in August. That was also in line with market expectations.
 Real disposable income fell 0.1 percent in September. Despite the fall in income, Americans saved more money last month. Savings increased to an annual rate of $355.6 billion, lifting the saving rate to 3.3 percent from 2.8 percent in August.
 Commerce Department data also showed the personal consumption expenditures price index excluding food and energy, a key inflation gauge monitored by the Federal Reserve, was up 1.3 percent from a year ago in September, matching the August increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (79%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (79%); CONSUMPTION (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (79%); SALES REBATES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



863 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii's Children, Left Behind

 BODY:
The economic crisis has forced every state to scramble to get its budget in balance. This has meant torturous efforts to preserve essential services and minimize the pain and damage from slashed spending and lost jobs. Every state has sacrificed. But Hawaii has sacrificed its own schoolchildren. 
 The 50th state, the only one with a single statewide school district, has just cut 17 days from the academic year, under a new labor contract with public school teachers that avoids layoffs in favor of pay cuts and furloughs, all to be taken on instructional days. Barring a court order or other intervention, there will be no classes on most Fridays for the rest of the school year, leaving 170,000 children in the lurch. Parents are furious that a state already lagging in academic achievement would willingly adopt the country's shortest school year.
 The teachers' union, the school board, the Department of Education and Gov. Linda Lingle all share responsibility for the debacle; they all signed off on the new contract last month. Ms. Lingle issued a statement at the time praising it as being ''in the best interest of teachers, our students and the general public.'' 
 Parents don't think so. Nor does the federal education secretary, Arne Duncan. In an op-ed article in The Honolulu Advertiser, he called it ''inconceivable'' that furlough Fridays were the best solution to school-budget woes and wondered why the state hadn't used its federal stimulus money to save classroom days. (The state instead used the $105 million to cut its own contribution to education, which was legal but hardly admirable.) 
 Hawaii's political leaders and school officials are now standing in a circle of blame, pointing at one another. The governor, who had ordered the Department of Education to cut its $1.8 billion budget by 14 percent, now says she had not expected the union to take its furlough days from instruction time. She said she regretted the settlement, even though her attorney general defended it in hearings over two federal lawsuits filed on behalf of parents and children trying to restore the school days.
 As other states struggle to bolster education, to add classes and lengthen the school year, Hawaii is going in the wrong direction. What it needs are not apologies but open classrooms for the students whose futures are being mortgaged -- especially the poor and disabled children and those in special education who are particularly vulnerable to lost instructional time. For now, they are learning a terrible lesson in how little their government and teachers think an education is worth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); LAWYERS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



864 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Constraining America's Brightest

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
That period right after college graduation is when young people tend to think they can set the world on fire. Careers are starting, and relationships in the broader world are forming. It's exciting, and optimism is off the charts.
 So the gloomy outlook that this economy is offering so many of America's brightest young people is not just disconcerting, it's a cultural shift, a harbinger. ''Attention,'' as the wife of a fictional salesman once said, ''must be paid.'' 
 Maggie Mertens graduated in May from Smith College, where she was an editor of the student newspaper. She applied for ''tons'' of jobs and internships, probably 50 or more. ''I was totally unemployed all summer,'' she said. She eventually landed an internship at NPR in Washington, which she described as ''awesome,'' but it is unpaid.
 ''I was lucky enough,'' she said, ''to connect up with a family that let me live with them for free in exchange for watching their baby a few times a week.'' But there was still no money coming in. So in addition to the 40-hour-a-week internship and the baby-sitting chores, Ms. Mertens is doing part-time seasonal work at a Whole Foods store.
 Welcome to the new world of employment in America as we approach the second decade of the 21st century.
 Josh Riman graduated from Syracuse University in 2006. ''I had a job at a great advertising agency,'' he said, ''but was laid off in 2007. I found a job the next day, amazingly enough, and worked at this next advertising shop for about a year and a half. Then, on my birthday, the place went bankrupt. We all lost our jobs.''
 Since then, Mr. Riman has been doing freelance and ''pro bono'' work. He has been unable to find anything even reasonably secure.
 As jobs become increasingly scarce, more and more college graduates are working for free, at internships, which is great for employers but something of a handicap for a young man or woman who has to pay for food or a place to live. 
 ''The whole idea of apprenticeships is coming back into vogue, as it was 100 years ago,'' said John Noble, director of the Office of Career Counseling at Williams College. ''Certain industries, such as the media, TV, radio and so on, have always exploited recent graduates, giving them a chance to get into a very competitive field in exchange for making them work for no -- or low -- pay. But now this is spreading to many other industries.''
 Lonnie Dunlap, who heads the career services program at Northwestern University and has been advising young people on careers since the mid-70s, said today's graduates are experiencing the worst employment market she's ever seen. 
 ''There's a sense of huge emotional anxiety among our students,'' she said. The young people are not only having trouble finding work themselves; many feel a sense of obligation to parents who are struggling with job losses and home foreclosures.
 ''In the past two years,'' said Ms. Dunlap, ''we have seen a huge uptick in the number of recent alums coming back for services because they still haven't found work, as well as midcareer alums who have been laid off and need our help.'' 
 Like Mr. Noble, she mentioned the growing use of interns versus paid employees and said she can see the value of such unpaid work for some recent graduates, ''though, of course, not everyone can afford to do that.''
 Despite the expansion of the gross domestic product in the quarter that ended in September, there is no sign of the kind of recovery in employment that would be needed to bring the American economy and the economic condition of American families back to robust health. It would be nice if some of the politicians and economists so obsessed with the G.D.P. would take a moment to look out the window at what is happening with real people in the real world.
 They might see Laura Ram, who graduated from Baruch College in New York in May 2007. She was laid off from a full-time job almost exactly a year ago and hasn't worked since. She's been diligent about submitting applications and showing up at job fairs and so on, but nothing has come close to panning out.
 ''I haven't gone on a single interview,'' she said, ''which manages to shock just about my entire family.''
 These recent graduates have done everything society told them to do. They've worked hard, kept their noses clean and gotten a good education (in many cases from the nation's best schools). They are ready and anxious to work. If we're having trouble finding employment for even these kids, then we're doing something profoundly wrong. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); SEASONAL WORKERS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



865 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Big Investors Grow Wary of Hedge Funds and Private Equity

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
LESS than two years ago, anything considered an alternative investment seemed to have an automatic cachet. 
 Investors were shoving one another aside to get into the top hedge funds and private equity offerings. Venture capitalists were raising money with ease to invest in companies, even if their ideas were merely interesting, not tested. 
 But the collapse of the financial markets last fall showed the investments' limits. Investors suddenly realized that they could not get access to the money they had put in or sell their investments for anywhere close to what they were worth on paper. Seemingly overnight, investors began to reassess the tradeoff between the promise of high returns that did not always materialize and limited access to their money.
 ''Clients are concerned about liquidity, lock-up periods and fees,'' said Rob Francais, chief executive of Aspiriant, a high-net-worth advisory firm. 
 In other words, the very things that had made hedge funds, private equity and venture capital so exclusive are now a cause for concern. This new caution has led, at best, to greater discernment among the wealthy. But at worst, it has fostered an ostrich mentality.
 ''If they can't understand it, they'll pass,'' said Joe Curtin, head of portfolio analytics and consulting at U.S. Trust Bank of America Private Wealth Management. ''That's a significant departure. If the strategy can't be explained in conversational terms, they're not going to do it.''
 Like so many other things this year, learning such a seemingly simple lesson has been costly. And the wealthy have not been the only ones to find it out the hard way. Two of the biggest buyers of private equity in 2008, for example, were public pension funds, which bought 26.6 percent of all private equity, and corporate pension funds (14.2 percent), according to Dow Jones Private Equity Analyst. This means the retirement plans of many workers had exposure to the same securities that have so frightened sophisticated individual investors. 
 Yet billions of dollars in alternative investments are out there, with new funds still trying to raise money. So how are investors looking at assets that hurt them so badly last year?
 HEDGE FUNDS Recent reports on the Galleon Group -- a hedge fund that is being wound down after insider trading charges -- have not improved confidence in the asset class.
 ''The bloom is off the rose, but not so much because of the bad performance,'' said Sol Waksman, president of BarclayHedge, which has tracked hedge funds since 1985. ''In reality, the performance was bad but it was still much better than equities. Not letting people redeem their money hurt them more. The Madoff scandal hurt terribly. And the news with Galleon is certainly not helping.''
 One alternative some investors are looking at is funds of hedge funds. With stakes in many hedge funds, these funds provide greater diversification, but they still have lock-up periods and their returns have been lagging. For the first three quarters of this year, they are up 9.1 percent, according to data from BarclayHedge. Direct investments in hedge funds were up 19.2 percent for the same period -- not much better than that 17.03 percent gain the Standard & Poor's 500 posted.
 ''You can't expect a Ferrari with a fund of funds,'' said Jacob Schutt, a principal at Parallel Advisors in San Francisco. ''But they should also have protected the downside a year ago.''
 The three areas receiving the most money in August were focused on distressed securities, fixed income and strategies that exploited irregularities in pricing. 
 Still, assets in the hedge fund industry are down 44 percent from their July 2008 high. Mr. Curtin said he did not see any reason for optimism over the next year, predicting that hedge fund returns would trail equities. 
 PRIVATE EQUITY The problem with private equity investments is one of expectations: clients are not getting a return in the time they expected.
 ''These funds in the past said they were going to make distributions after two years, but now they're not doing it,'' said Theodore Beringer, managing director of the Beringer Group, a family office adviser. 
 Just as bad, companies that were supposed to be taken public after two or three rounds of fund-raising are now on their sixth or seventh round with no end in sight. In many cases, this is a function of the equity and debt markets, but investors are still miffed. 
 New money put into private equity funds was down 59 percent in the first three quarters, according to Private Equity Analyst. The $79 billion raised so far this year more closely resembles 2005, when $97 billion was raised, than the recent boom years. 
 There is a realization that the days of funds buying a company, loading it up with debt and selling it to another fund may be over for the foreseeable future. Instead, Mr. Curtin said, there has been a move back to ''traditional private equity,'' which he defined as managing a company over a longer period before taking it public. This requires investors to rethink their returns and whether tying up their money in a fund is worth it.
 Earlier in the year, when university endowments began looking for buyers for their private equity stakes, analysts thought this was a precursor to a more robust market for existing private equity. But research by Private Equity Analyst found that sellers were not as eager to sell at steep discounts as buyers had hoped.
 That gap may be closing, though. Tony Roth, chief strategist for private wealth management at UBS, said several funds were raising money to buy private equity on the secondary market. He said investors may still be able to buy this private equity for 30 to 60 cents on the dollar.
 VENTURE CAPITAL The amount of money investors are committing to venture capital continues to fall. It was down 38 percent in the third quarter from the same period last year, according to Dow Jones VentureSource.
 The data also showed that investors were shunning historically strong areas. Software companies were at their lowest level of investment since 1996, and health care was down 25 percent.
 Edward Harris, head of business development at Apex Learning in Seattle, has worked both sides of the venture capital business in his 20-year career and said investors were particularly cautious now. 
 ''Early-stage companies face the challenge that there is less money out there, and those investors are more demanding,'' said Mr. Harris, who used to manage investments at Vulcan, the investment company set up by Microsoft's co-founder, Paul G. Allen. ''They want a larger stake and want to see more tangible signs of progress. It used to be the right idea and the right people could raise a lot of money out of the gate.''
 Now, Mr. Harris said, people want to invest in companies that have revenue coming in. Among individual investors, there is less desire to put money into companies that are based on attracting traffic and recouping the investment through ad revenue. 
 ''If you go back to where the market was frothier, investors feared if you didn't get into an idea early enough you'd miss out on the opportunity because the valuation would spiral out of sight,'' he said. ''Now it's, 'What's the rush?' They want to make sure the idea is still going to be there.''
 The same can be said for most alternative investments today.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward Harris, of Apex Learning in Seattle, said investors were not rushing to snap up opportunities as in frothier times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); HEDGE FUNDS (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (62%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: U S TRUST BANK OF AMERICA PRIVATE WEALTH MANAGEMENT (67%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



866 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Series Is Cubs' Goal In New Family Business

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Ricketts family, the new owner of the Chicago Cubs, faces an old problem.
 The team has not won the World Series since 1908, when Charles Murphy owned the team.
 ''We have to put that talk behind us,'' said Tom Ricketts, who was introduced at a news conference Friday as the controlling owner. ''It certainly colors a lot of discussion about the team, but from our position, I can't do anything about what happened in the last 101 years. All we can do is take a thoughtful, long-range approach to the team, and our intent is to win the World Series.''
 The Ricketts family's roots are in Omaha, and it derives its wealth from the TD Ameritrade discount brokerage. Joe Ricketts, the father of Tom and three other children, founded the company. 
 The family is paying the bankrupt Tribune Company $845 million for a 95 percent stake in the team and Wrigley Field and 25 percent of the Comcast SportsNet Chicago cable channel that carries Cubs games.
 For now, Tom Ricketts said, there will not be a drastic overhaul of the team or the ballpark with the ivied walls.
 ''There'll be no housecleaning; 2009 was disappointing, but we've had a pretty good run of late, with three playoff appearances in the last seven years,'' he said in a recent interview. ''Things are generally headed in the right direction.'' He said he expected General Manager Jim Hendry and Crane Kenney, the team president, to stay.
 ''We hope Lou Piniella comes back as manager,'' he said. ''It's my impression that he's coming back, but he has an option, and I don't know the exact date he has to inform us.''
 Sprucing up Wrigley will start with improving restrooms and widening concourses before the family determines what else can be done to modernize it within existing landmark restrictions.
 ''There aren't a lot of places to add seats, but we have some property adjacent to the park and we can build amenities into a new addition,'' he said, referring to a triangular parcel. ''People want more food options, like a restaurant, where you can take a client, and we'd like to do more for kids.'' A gift shop will be added.
 The Cubs were put up for sale in April 2007 after the real estate investor Sam Zell acquired Tribune, which filed for bankruptcy protection last December. The bidding came down, finally, to two suitors, the Rickettses and a group led by Marc Utay, a Manhattan investment banker. The Ricketts family's bid, originally $900 million, was reduced to $845 million during the summer, largely because of strains in the capital markets, Ricketts said.
 In August, Tom Ricketts said, he nearly walked away in frustration. 
 His bid had been selected early this year as the one that Tribune chose to negotiate with exclusively, but when the exclusivity period ended, Tribune negotiated simultaneously with Ricketts and Utay. 
 ''We felt it was time to fish or cut bait, so we really pushed our advisers and their advisers to decide if we could get this done,'' he said. ''It was a grind. It's a really complicated deal with lots of points that had to be negotiated.''
 He said he was not overwhelmed at the price he and his family paid for the franchise and the stadium. The price might have exceeded $1 billion if the sale came during a strong economy. ''I think we got a good deal,'' he said. ''You don't buy a team for the deal but because you want to be associated with it, and you want to make it a winner. From a business perspective, we did fine, and it will prove over time to be a good transaction.''
 Still, the price of sports teams rarely go down. Tribune paid the Wrigley family $20.5 million in 1981. 
 Ricketts, 44, who grew up admiring Ruppert Jones, a minor league star with the Omaha Royals in the mid-1970s, said the impetus to buy the Cubs was the growth of TD Ameritrade from a family operation to a publicly traded $2.5 billion company. The family sold shares of the company to help finance the Cubs acquisition but still owns 90 million shares; one of Ricketts's two brothers, Pete, and his father still sit on the board.
 ''Ameritrade was a family business for our formative years,'' he said. ''When Tribune was starting to look to restructure, I floated the idea to the family that maybe the Cubs were up for sale and we could put some resources into it. It would be a family business for a long time and not grow beyond that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Cubs introduced Tom Ricketts as the team's controlling owner on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (65%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); OMAHA, NE, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEBRASKA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



867 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: CliffsNotes Of Columns To Come

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
There comes a time in the life of every book writer when he or she has to stop procrastinating and write the darn book. For me, that painful moment has arrived; this is going to be my last column for a while. As the clock was winding down to my leave, though, I kept thinking of columns I wanted to write. There are four in particular I wanted to explore more fully, so here they are in abbreviated form.
 FIX THE RATING AGENCIES? On Wednesday, the House Financial Services Committee passed a bill to reform the credit rating agencies. It's a complicated beast: it gives the Securities and Exchange Commission new oversight over the rating agencies; makes it easier to bring lawsuits against them; and tries to minimize the absurd conflicts of interest -- starting with the fact that the rating agencies are paid by the issuers of the bonds they are rating.
 No one can doubt that the rating agencies need reforming. The degradation of standards at Standard & Poor's and Moody's were at the heart of the financial crisis. The rating agencies made huge fees handing out triple A ratings for securities stuffed with subprime mortgages. And they were overwhelmed by the Wall Street firms churning out their toxic products. They became foxes guarding henhouses. 
 But surely there is a simpler, more elegant solution to the problem: just eliminate the ratings agencies' special status.
 Since 1975, the S.E.C. has designated the big rating agencies Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations. This status meant that their ratings had a kind of government seal of approval. Indeed, government regulations regarding bonds are built around ratings. Money market funds, for instance, can hold only paper that is highly rated by the rating agencies. Bank capital requirements also revolve around the ratings of their assets. (That is why it was so important to have derivatives rated triple A: the rating made it possible for banks to hold these securities without much capital to back them.)
 But why should credit analysts have special government status? It makes no sense. When equity analysts rate a stock, they are voicing an opinion -- and everyone knows it. Smart equity investors listen to the good analysts, but they also do their own homework.
 The country would be far better off if the same were true for bonds. If the rating agencies didn't have that special status, credit analysts would be just like their equity brethren, offering opinions that investors could listen to -- or not. Ratings downgrades wouldn't necessarily have the disastrous real-world consequences they so often do now. Bank capital requirements would no longer be connected to the decisions of a rating agency. 
 Best of all, bond investors would have to do their own homework instead of simply relying on a bond rating. Which, of course, is also why most Wall Street firms are opposed to this idea. Heaven forbid that they would have to do their own internal research. It's so much easier, when something goes wrong, to just say: ''It's not my fault. It was rated triple A.''
 LOTTERIES AND SAVINGS Marc M. Groz, a risk-management expert and the author of ''Forbes Guide to the Markets,'' is a font of off-beat ideas. He once told me, for example, that he believed the way to deal with systemic risk was to adopt a cap-and-trade approach, where the government would set an all-encompassing risk ceiling, and firms could then buy and sell pieces of that risk, depending on the size of their risk appetites. But the idea that has most caught my fancy has to do with lotteries. Mr. Groz believes that lotteries could -- and should -- be turned into investment vehicles. He calls his idea ''residual value games.''
 The concept first came to him in the fall of 2000, when he saw a woman toss away a losing lottery ticket. ''My first thought was I wish she hadn't littered,'' he said. ''And my second thought was that if the ticket had been worth something, she wouldn't have thrown it away.'' 
 From there, it was an easy leap -- for him, at least -- to link lotteries with investing. If a retirement account was part of a lottery ticket, he reasoned, it would retain value whether or not it won any money for the person who bought it. (Of course, that still wouldn't stop the littering, but never mind.)
 As Mr. Groz envisions it, a portion of the money a person spends on a lottery ticket would be held back; that's the residual value. That percentage would go into a retirement account in the lottery player's name. The account would be managed by a big money manager like Fidelity, and the purchaser of the lottery tickets wouldn't have access to the money until he or she had hit retirement age. (Yes, this is technologically feasible; Mr. Groz has the patent to prove it.)
 One reason this is so appealing is that it helps the portion of the population -- the poor and the lower middle class -- who tend to throw money away on lottery tickets, yet have no savings. Another reason is that it makes state-run lotteries a tad less exploitive. States are balancing their budgets on the backs of their poorest citizens, thanks to lotteries. It's shameful, really. With Mr. Groz's savings component, at least the ticket buyers would get something good out of it. And of course it would help lift the country's anemic savings rate.
 A few years ago, Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, proposed adding a lottery component to savings bonds. Mr. Groz's idea is the opposite: it adds a savings component to the lottery. Although lottery executives and state gaming officials have expressed interest over the years, Mr. Groz's idea has never gotten out of the starting blocks. It should.
 IS PRO HOCKEY DOOMED? More precisely, is the National Hockey League's so-called Southern strategy doomed? 
 The strategy, devised shortly after Gary Bettman became N.H.L. commissioner in 1993, was to put hockey franchises all across the South and West -- in cities like Phoenix, Atlanta, Nashville and Charlotte, N.C. Some of the franchises were new; others were relocated from cities like Winnipeg and Quebec. The idea was to bring hockey to non-Canadian cities with large and growing populations, and turn the sport into the next football.
 Here we are, 16 years later, and hockey still ain't football. Colorado and Dallas -- two franchises that have won Stanley Cups -- do well. But most of the other newer teams either lose money or make very little, according to estimates by Forbes magazine. Fans stay away in droves.
 The lunacy of the Southern strategy was brought into sharp relief this summer during the Phoenix Coyotes' highly contentious bankruptcy proceedings. The team lost $67 million last season (on just $58 million in revenue), and its owner was desperate to unload it. James L. Balsillie, the billionaire co-founder of Research in Motion, wanted just as desperately to buy the team -- he'd previously tried to buy the Pittsburgh Penguins and the Nashville Predators -- and was willing to pay a hefty $242.5 million. He had one stipulation, however: he wanted to relocate the team to Hamilton, Ontario, where people actually care about hockey.
 How did the N.H.L. react? It fought bitterly, claiming Mr. Balsillie was unfit to be an owner -- this in a league where the Ottawa Senators owner, Eugene Melnyk, was recently charged with stock fraud. With no other prospective buyers in sight, the league offered $150 million to buy the Coyotes itself. 
 In mid-September, the team's coach, the great Wayne Gretzky, quit in disgust. A few weeks later, the bankruptcy judge, Redfield T. Baum, ruled that he could not award the team to Mr. Balsillie against thewishes of the league, even though it meant the Coyotes' bondholders would get short shrift. Mr. Balsillie took his millions back to Canada.
 This week, the N.H.L. is expected to complete its purchase of the Coyotes. And it insists that the team will stay in Phoenix. 
 Good luck with that, Mr. Bettman.
 IS GOOGLE A MONOPOLIST? What I really mean by that question is, Will Google be the government's next big antitrust target? Despite a recent cover story in Fortune about the ties between the Obama administration and Google, I think the answer is yes.
 ''The issue is going to be concentration of power,'' said Ken Auletta, the New Yorker writer whose book, ''Googled -- The End of the World as We Know It,'' is about to be published. He compares Google to Microsoft in the late 1990s, when Bill Gates simply couldn't believe that anybody would view his company as monopolistic. ''He thought he was doing good,'' Mr. Auletta said -- just as Google does now.
 Right now, the biggest Google-related controversy surrounds the company's efforts to digitize the world's books, which has created widespread fear that the company will have too much power over the printed word. My own guess is that issue will be eventually settled to the satisfaction of the Justice Department.
 The longer-term issue is going to be whether Google treats other companies fairly in both search results and ad placement -- especially if its market share keeps growing. I recently stumbled across a Web site called SearchNeutrality.org, which was set up by a British company called Foundem, a well-regarded price-comparison Web site that can't get the time of day from Google's vaunted algorithms. 
 ''In our view, search engines should not be permitted to use their market power to discriminate against competing applications or content,'' SearchNeutrality.org says in a statement of principles. The allegation that a monopolist is using its monopoly power to squelch competition is catnip to trustbusters. It was the basis for the Microsoft antitrust trial a decade ago --and I'll bet the rent that sooner or later it's going to be the basis for a Justice Department inquiry into Google's business practices.
 In fact, I'm guessing that's one column that will be waiting for me when I return. See you in the spring.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Talking Business column on Saturday, about the National Hockey League's refusal to sell the Phoenix Coyotes franchise to a Canadian who would relocate it to Ontario, misidentified the North Carolina city that received a team under the N.H.L.'s so-called Southern strategy of the 1990s. It was Raleigh, not Charlotte.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Phoenix Coyotes and the Columbus Blue Jackets in Glendale, Ariz. Hockey has not done particularly well out West. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN PETERSEN/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); WRITERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); BOND ISSUES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); LITIGATION (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); EQUITY RESEARCH (68%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (75%); PHOENIX COYOTES (59%); COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



868 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Markets Fall Back to Earth, and Hard

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The trouble began the moment the opening bell sounded and ended, more than six hours later, with a stock market plunge that left frazzled traders biting their nails. 
 No sooner did trading start on Friday morning than a rush of erroneous orders overwhelmed the computers at the New York Stock Exchange. By the time the day was over, the Dow Jones industrial average had plunged nearly 250 points, or 2.5 percent, in its sharpest sell-off since July. 
 The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index fell even more -- 2.8 percent -- to close out October with its first monthly loss since February. The Nasdaq composite index also tumbled. 
 The sudden decline, coming only days after the Dow was flying above 10,000, left many traders asking the same question: After a stunning seven-month rally, is the stock market finally running out of steam?
 Many economic and financial worries, from the troubles of hard-pressed consumers to the travails of Citigroup, dragged financial shares lower through the day. The losses more than wiped out the market's gains from the day before, when a government report seemed to suggest that the nation's longest recession since World War II might be ending. 
 But even though the worst may be over for the economy, many investors now fear that any recovery will be slow and that the recent optimism in the markets may turn out to have been misplaced. Even after the decline on Friday, the broad market was still up nearly 15 percent this year.
 ''The market needs and demands to see evidence that things are getting better, not just that they may be getting better,'' said Anthony Chan, chief economist for JPMorgan's private wealth management. ''We need to beat expectations before the markets raise eyebrows and say it's safe to get back into the water.''
 The Dow industrials fell 249.85 points, to 9,712.73. The S.& P. 500 was off 29.92 points, or 2.8 percent, to 1,036.18. The Nasdaq declined 52.44 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,045.11.
 The day began with unsettling news from the Commerce Department. A report on consumer spending showed the largest drop in nine months, a dreary data point that met Wall Street expectations but reinforced the notion that the recovery of the United States economy would be slow and halting. The decline was tied to the end of the government's cash-for-clunkers program, which gave car buyers thousands of dollars in vouchers for the purchase of new vehicles. Overall spending fell 0.5 percent in September, and personal income levels remained flat because of higher unemployment rates and decreases in wages.
 Big banks like Citigroup, which have rallied strongly this year as the financial crisis receded, tumbled sharply. Banking shares fell nearly 5 percent. Shares of Citigroup dropped 22 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $4.09, after an analyst raised concerns that the company might have to write off a big portion of nearly $38 billion of tax benefits. 
 ''People are concerned about the real earnings prospects of these companies,'' said Meredith A. Whitney, a financial services analyst. ''As you get closer to 2010, a recovery isn't in sight.''
 Investors fear banks' losses on loans will continue to worsen, particularly if unemployment keeps rising. A report due next week is expected to show that the jobless rate might be close to 10 percent. Others worry how banks will make up lost revenue as Washington cracks down on credit card penalties and debit card overdraft fees.
 Questions about the ability of Citigroup to take advantage of certain tax benefits have swirled around the company for months. Tax accounting experts say that federal securities regulators have demanded that financial companies start marking down the value of those benefits if their profit outlook remains dim.
 Citigroup's financial position would be weakened if it were forced to take a large write-down. Other tax issues have also imperiled Citigroup's plans to repay $45 billion of bailout funds. A Citigroup spokesman played down the worries, but declined to comment on the bank's plans.
 As banks and other companies confront the realities of their balance sheets, investors are looking toward the holiday season and beyond for relief. But some say they think a market pullback is inevitable.
 ''The market is focusing on the glass is half empty,'' said Scott E. Marcouiller, a senior equity market strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors in St. Louis. ''We just need to let some of the air out of the balloon.''
 As investors fled stocks, bond prices rose. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 31/32, to 102. The yield fell to 3.38 percent from 3.50 percent on Thursday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Bonnano at the New York Stock Exchange on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); WORLD WAR II (51%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (50%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



869 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Shut 9 Banks, Bringing Total to 115 for Year

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Regulators closed nine banks Friday, including California National Bank in Los Angeles, as the still-weak economy produces a stream of loan defaults. 
 The banks were units of the FBOP Corporation, a privately held bank holding company in Chicago.
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said U.S. Bank in Minneapolis agreed to assume the deposits and most of the assets of the banks.
 The banks are mostly in the West and had combined assets of $19.4 billion at the end of September.
 In all, 115 banks have failed this year. The nine banks closed Friday were the most the agency has shut in one day since the financial crisis began taking down banks last year. In 1989, at the height of the savings-and-loan crisis, the F.D.I.C. closed 534 banks, or about 10 a week.
 In addition to California National, the banks closed on Friday were Bank USA, NA, in Phoenix; San Diego National Bank; Pacific National Bank in San Francisco; Park National Bank in Chicago; Community Bank of Lemont in Illinois; and North Houston Bank, Madisonville State Bank, and Citizens National Bank in Teague, all in Texas.
 Deposits as of Sept. 30 totaled $15.4 billion. The nine banks had 153 offices, which will reopen Saturday as U.S. Bank branches.
 A spokesman for the F.D.I.C., David Barr, said that because U.S. Bank assumed all the deposits, the plan will feel like a merger for customers. ''It's not a merger, but it walks like a merger and quacks like a merger,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MERGERS (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%)

COMPANY: FBOP CORP (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); PARK NATIONAL CORP (69%); U S BANCORP (58%); CITIZENS & NORTHERN BANK (55%); CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK INC (55%); CNB CORP MI (55%); CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF MERIDIAN (55%); COMMUNITY TRUST BANCORP INC (55%); CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: PRK (NYSE MKT) (69%); USB (NYSE) (58%); CTBI (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



870 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Vows Turnpike Tolls Will Not Rise

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine said Friday that he had no intention of raising tolls or leasing the New Jersey Turnpike to raise money if he is elected to a second term. 
 Mr. Corzine was attacked by Christopher J. Christie, his Republican challenger, after saying in a New York Times interview that he would consider revisiting his failed 2008 effort to raise cash by leasing the state's toll roads.
 On Friday, the day his comments were published, Mr. Corzine insisted that he had been misunderstood. ''No toll increases, no leasing,'' he told reporters after an event in Bayonne. ''Off the table. Not gonna happen.''
 The 2008 plan entailed leasing the toll roads to an entity that would have sold $38 billion in bonds and raised tolls as much as 800 percent to pay them off. It won little public support and none in the Legislature.
 In the Times interview, conducted last week, Mr. Corzine first brought up that proposal when asked about his efforts to restructure state debt.
 He said that his plan had been ''too big, too fast, at the wrong time,'' and that he believed it was rejected because people ''don't want to pay the tolls'' and were sensing that ''we were in the midst of a recession. We just didn't know it.''
 Later in the interview, Mr. Corzine referred again to the plan, noting that a similar proposal to securitize toll revenues had been enacted successfully in Indiana. ''This idea worked,'' he said, adding, ''So maybe we just need to scale it back.''
 On Friday, he said he had merely been alluding to the possibility of raising money ''out of our rest stops on properties that surround the turnpike.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BONDS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



871 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Choices in the Afghan War

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Tenacity Question,'' by David Brooks (column, Oct. 30):
 The issue is not whether President Obama is stubborn enough to stick to an earlier ill-advised judgment that the United States could and should do whatever might be necessary to ''win'' the war in Afghanistan. 
 Rather, the question is does he have the courage to take the political risks, the inevitable angry roar of denunciations he will receive if he decides to scale back our military involvement in that tragically ungovernable collection of tribal fiefs (that no power in a long history has ever been able to unify or subdue) and get out as quickly as possible. 
 The reality is that the mass of Afghans see us as just another foreign army of occupation -- taking part in an unending civil war that nobody is going to ''win.'' Certainly not the United States.
 Landrum Bolling Washington, Oct. 30, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The question is not whether President Obama has the tenacity of Churchill or Lincoln, but rather is waging war in Afghanistan in our national interest. I think not. 
 Afghanistan is a strategic war of choice, not the wars of national survival that Churchill and Lincoln led. 
 There may indeed be persuasive arguments for this strategic war, but the question should not be put to the military or to counterinsurgency experts. We do, of course, have real national interests in containing Islamist transnational terrorism and in a stable Pakistan, but again, this is a different question whose answer will not be found in propping up the corrupt Karzai cabal.
 Richard Gordon Berkeley, Calif., Oct. 30, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's column seems to presume that a military solution in Afghanistan is appropriate. This is also prevalent among those who wage war for a living -- whether fighting or building and selling armaments. 
 The military requests what it requires to achieve military objectives, whether those objectives resolve greater problems or not. That's tactical -- and that's the military's job. 
 The president's job is to carefully weigh our national interests and then order the tactics necessary to achieve them. It is refreshing to have a president actually invest time and intellectual effort, circumspectly formulating a plan of action and not just surrounding himself with ''the smartest military experts'' or ''retired officers.''
 If the solution truly is military, so be it. If not, we shouldn't send our kids off to die for it. Tenacity is appropriate only when one is on a proper course -- not heading toward a cliff.
 David L. Wolf Waterford, Mich., Oct. 30, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman has it exactly right in ''Don't Build Up'' (column, Oct. 28). Supposedly, our choice in Afghanistan is to conquer or pacify. If the decision is to conquer, 40,000 more troops are obviously insufficient (maybe 400,000), but no general will ever give an honest answer as to how many are needed after what happened to Gen. Eric Shinseki at the start of the Iraq war. 
 On the other hand, trying to pacify may be an impossible task, requiring forever to accomplish at an enormous expense. This is a tribal country where ties to a tribe are more important than any tie to a community. 
 As the column points out, ''people do not change when we tell them they should.'' Trying to break up tribes will be impossible, and any attempt to do so will only strengthen the Taliban. It is far better to let the Afghan people eliminate the Taliban, because it is in their best interest to do so, than for us to try to do it by brute force or by appeasement.
 We can only lose by staying in Afghanistan for any longer than it takes us to extract our forces, who are already seen as occupiers. In the long run, we will be much better able to stabilize our own country and economy without having to try to remake the world in our image.
 L. R. Jeffrey Fort Myers, Fla., Oct. 29, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Thomas L. Friedman argues, ''We simply do not have the Afghan partners, the NATO allies, the domestic support, the financial resources or the national interests to justify an enlarged and prolonged nation-building effort in Afghanistan.''
 The prestige of the United States and its allies is on the line in Afghanistan. Having committed to a ''war of necessity,'' President Obama has a duty and responsibility to follow the advice of his hand-picked general, Stanley A. McChrystal, to supply the general with an additional 40,000 troops or risk failure.
 President Obama owes it to the Afghan people to make it clear that we and our allies will not leave or draw down any troops until the Taliban has been totally defeated. Mr. Obama also owes it to the American people that Afghanistan will never again become a sanctuary for Osama bin Laden from which to plan another strike against the United States homeland. 
 Paul Schoenbaum Williamsburg, Va., Oct. 28, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''More Schools, Not Troops'' (column, Oct. 29):
 Nicholas D. Kristof feels that dispatching more troops to Afghanistan would be a bad bet, and it's easy to agree with him. 
 President Obama should look back on the Soviet Union's failing decadelong attempt to conquer Afghanistan. The topography alone is a formidable hazard for invaders to have second thoughts.
 Back off, Mr. Obama. The money saved could well be used to take care of health care, our jobless and homeless.
 Jack E. Cohen Hewlett, N.Y., Oct. 29, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



872 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco's Mayor Ends Bid to Be Elected Governor

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
There was only one official Democratic candidate for governor of California, and now, officially, there is none. 
 Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco, who announced last spring on Twitter that he would seek the state's highest office in 2010, said Friday that he was withdrawing from the race. 
 Mr. Newsom, most likely spooked by the rising popularity of former Gov. Jerry Brown, who has yet to announce his candidacy but is widely understood to be seeking the job, put out a statement Friday about his decision.
 ''With a young family and responsibilities at City Hall, I have found it impossible to commit the time required to complete this effort the way it needs to -- and should -- be done,'' he said. ''This is not an easy decision. But it is one made with the best intentions for my wife, my daughter, the residents of the city and county of San Francisco, and California Democrats.''
 Mr. Newsom, short on cash and endorsements and viewed warily by the state's business interests at a time of deep recession in the state, remains popular in his hometown but was gaining less traction statewide. His political views were unlikely to play as well across the far-more-conservative center of the state than they did in the Bay Area. 
 Mr. Brown, the state's attorney general, served two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983, and is the former mayor of Oakland. He recently filed paperwork to form an exploratory committee to run for his old job in Sacramento. 
 Even without an official entry into the race, Mr. Brown has attracted more interest than Mr. Newsom for the better part of the last year. In a California Field poll early this month of likely Democratic primary candidates, Mr. Brown led Mr. Newsom 47 percent to 27 percent, with 26 percent undecided among 1,005 California voters. The poll had a sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
 On Friday, Mr. Brown released a statement that described Mr. Newsom as ''a talented public official'' with ''a bright future.''
 ''I am sure this was not an easy decision,'' Mr. Brown said.
 Senator Dianne Feinstein is often mentioned as a possible Democratic contender for governor, but has done next to nothing to demonstrate serious interest. Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, also a Democrat, has said he will not run.
 The Republican field is larger and more defined. Seeking to replace fellow Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger as governor is Meg Whitman, the well-financed former chief executive of eBay who has stumbled often in the early stages of her candidacy; Steve Poizner, the state insurance commissioner; and former Representative Tom Campbell, the most socially liberal of the three but the one with far shallower pockets. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gavin Newsom was the only Democrat officially in the race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INSURANCE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (79%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



873 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Data Indicate Gains For Education

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and RON NIXON

 BODY:
The best symbol of the $787 billion federal stimulus program turns out not to be a construction worker in a hard hat, but rather a classroom teacher saved from a layoff.
 On Friday, the Obama administration released the most detailed information yet on the jobs created by the stimulus. Of the 640,239 jobs recipients claimed to have created or saved so far, officials said, more than half -- 325,000 -- were in education. Most were teachers' jobs that states said were saved when stimulus money averted a need for layoffs. 
 Although the stimulus was initially sold in large part as a public works program, only about 80,000 of the jobs that were claimed Friday were in construction. 
 Of course, counting jobs that were saved can be a squishier proposition than counting jobs that were created. Teachers have been laid off in some areas -- and budget officials say that there would have been more layoffs without the stimulus money -- but it is difficult to say with certainty how many teachers would have been laid off without that money.
 Indiana, for example, reported saving or creating 13,232 education jobs with its stimulus money, but Cris Johnston, the director of the government efficiency division of the state budget office, said that it was difficult to say whether the state would have actually lost those jobs without the money. 
 ''We can't make the statement that they were created or retained,'' Mr. Johnston said. Indiana, he said had followed federal guidelines in reporting how many full-time jobs were paid for with the stimulus money, which also paid for education supplies and other expenses. And while New York City officials have said the stimulus helped them save thousands of teaching jobs, it would have been politically difficult for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to actually lay off that many teachers while running for re-election.
 Hard hats could surpass teachers next year, as more construction projects get under way. In Florida, for instance, one of the biggest infrastructure projects is its plan to build the Indian Street Bridge in Martin County. But with a big, complex project like that, it takes a while before construction can start. That project, which will cost more than $72 million, claims to have saved or created just one job so far.
 An analysis by The New York Times of the grants and contracts in the stimulus showed that as of the end of September, only 7 percent of the work had been completed and 9 percent was more than half done, while 46 percent was less than half done and 38 percent had not begun.
 The jobs announced Friday were created by about $159 billion in grants, loans and contracts made available to the states. About $37 billion of that amount has been paid out so far. 
 The Obama administration said the jobs were evidence that the stimulus was on track to save or create 3.5 million jobs by the end of next year. 
 Officials did not count jobs that were indirectly created by the $84 billion pumped into the economy through tax cuts so far, or from the billions of dollars' worth of unemployment benefits and aid to states for Medicaid. If those were included, the administration estimated, the tally of jobs saved or created would rise to more than 1 million.
 ''There is strong and mounting evidence that the recovery act is putting people back to work,'' Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said at a news conference in Washington.
 The figures should be taken with a grain of salt, though. They come from reports submitted by more than 130,000 recipients of contracts, grants and loans that were published on the government's Web site, www.recovery.gov. But officials expect there to be errors; the first reports of federal contracts earlier this month contained some filings that overstated or understated jobs. 
 The jobs reports came a day after new figures showed the economy grew by 3.5 percent during the last quarter, ending the longest economic contraction since World War II. But while many economists credited the stimulus with spurring some of that growth, many in Washington have raised doubts about the stimulus program's effectiveness at creating jobs. 
 Republicans have cited the high unemployment figure, at 9.8 percent, as proof of the failure of the stimulus, which they voted overwhelmingly opposed. Democrats said that the recession was more severe than most economists predicted and credited the stimulus with helping avert a second Great Depression.
 The House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, questioned what had happened to the many private-sector jobs that the administration had promised to create. 
 ''While Washington keeps spending and piling more debt on the backs of our children and grandchildren,'' he said in a statement Friday, ''out-of-work families keep asking, 'where are the jobs?' ''
 Sensitive to such criticisms, the Obama administration invited a marquee Republican to the White House to praise the stimulus: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, whose state has faced perhaps the most severe budget crisis in the nation.
 ''Some of our colleagues are saying that it hasn't done much, or was a waste of money,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said, sharing the stage with Mr. Biden. ''Well, I would dispute that.''
 He said the stimulus had created or saved more than 100,000 jobs in California, the most in the nation, more than half of which -- 62,000 -- were the jobs of teachers, professors and school administrators. Mr. Schwarzenegger noted that some people have questioned whether those teachers would actually have been laid off without the stimulus. ''No, those teachers would have been gone, if it wouldn't have been for the federal stimulus money,'' he said.
 Michigan, whose unemployment rate of 15.3 percent was the highest in the nation, reported creating or saving 22,514 jobs, the ninth most in the nation. But Rhode Island, whose 13 percent unemployment rate made it the third highest in the nation, ranked near the bottom with 2,012 jobs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, left, and Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Rosalinda Elmore, the principal at Herrick Elementary School in Sylmar, Calif., which received stimulus money.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) CHART: Stimulus Jobs So Far: Data released by the White House Friday shows that nearly 650,000 jobs have been saved or created through the federal stimulus program. (Source: recovery.gov
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); CITIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOE BIDEN (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (50%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



874 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Thompson Offers Plan to Hold Line on Rents and Fares

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; Ravi Somaiya contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With the leaves turning and the mayoral race down to its final paces, William C. Thompson Jr., the Democratic candidate, sketched out a liberal policy agenda Friday, saying he would fight to repeal laws that allow landlords to charge market rents for regulated apartments.
 He promised to appoint pro-tenant members to the Rent Guidelines Board to oppose higher rents and pro-rider members to the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to oppose raising fares. He said he would keep subway station agents on the job, and try to place all rent-regulated middle-class apartments that are part of the Mitchell-Lama program since 1973 under rent stabilization laws. 
 He also said he would give the homeless priority for Section 8 rental vouchers and allow homeless families who now are required to pay for shelter to instead put that money into escrow to be used for a permanent apartment. 
 These are some of the positions that would place Mr. Thompson to the liberal side of the political mainstream in New York City, and open up some -- although perhaps not a lot -- of ideological space between him and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 ''Next week New Yorkers have a choice between more of Michael Bloomberg's Republican policies, which cater to the wealthy, and my vision,'' Mr. Thompson said, flanked by supporters on the steps of City Hall. ''I'm not the other choice; I'm the right choice.''
 As his words suggest, however, Mr. Thompson is fighting the perception that he is light in the pocket on policy questions. His policy director quit over the summer, although he was later replaced. And except for a proposal to tax New Yorkers making more than half a million dollars, he has taken longer to flesh out his ideas than many past mayoral candidates, Democratic and Republican.
 Mr. Bloomberg's campaign immediately attacked along these lines. ''This last-minute slapdash effort isn't serious enough to merit a response,'' said Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the Bloomberg campaign, ''except to point out that his proposals would cost New Yorkers billions in new spending and necessitate massive tax increases.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, content to let his near-constant campaign commercials speak for him, caught coffee with the bicyclist Lance Armstrong and walked through the Union Square Greenmarket in his only campaign appearance of the day. He grimaced when a passer-by hollered ''What a disgrace -- $100 million to buy an election!'' but he otherwise seemed in good spirits, eating a green bean or three and signing autographs.
 Earlier this week, Mr. Bloomberg gave his own policy speech, in which he essentially promised to build upon his existing accomplishments. So he promised to cut crime further, create more charter schools, plant more trees and create high-speed toll plazas at bridges and tunnels. 
 Both men barely addressed the city's straitened economic circumstances or how that yawning chasm might affect their promises. The city faces a projected cumulative $15 billion budget gap between now and 2013, according to the state comptroller. Mr. Bloomberg has proposed to draw on money he had set aside for retiree health benefits to cover shortfalls. 
 Mr. Thompson declined to attach a dollar figure to his proposals Friday, saying that his staff had often done that in the past. He promised to lobby the Obama administration for money and predicted that his other proposals, including converting Mitchell-Lama apartments to rent stabilization, would come at little or no cost.
 But the city's track record in saving about 28,000 of those apartments so far suggests that, however badly needed, preservation comes with a considerable price tag. Debt must be restructured, tax abatements are extended (which comes at a cost to tax collections). And these buildings often require substantial investment, not the least in putting in new roofs, boilers and similar expensive infrastructure. 
 When it came to the transportation authority, Mr. Thompson suggested that much of the savings could be found by streamlining contracts and fighting unspecified waste.
 ''All of this is doable,'' he said. ''Also, I don't think we are going to look at budget gaps forever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I'm not the other choice
 I'm the right choice,'' William C. Thompson Jr., the Democratic candidate for mayor, told supporters Friday outside City Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENT CONTROL (91%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); FAMILY (70%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); LANCE ARMSTRONG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009



875 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Sony Posts Another Loss, But Raises Its Forecast

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Sony, the electronics maker, posted its fourth consecutive quarterly loss on Friday, hurt by a strong Japanese yen and sluggish sales. 
 But the company trimmed its loss forecast for the year, citing an aggressive cost-cutting drive and a brightening outlook for the global economy.
 Meanwhile, Panasonic raised its annual forecast, signaling that the worst might be over for Japanese makers of consumer electronics. 
 Sony, based in Tokyo, had a net loss of 26.3 billion yen ($289 million) in the period, reversing a net profit of 20.8 billion yen a year earlier. The latest results beat analysts' forecasts by a wide margin and Sony's stock rose about 3 percent.
 Sales in the period, which ended Sept. 30 and was the second quarter of Sony's fiscal year, fell 20 percent, to 1.66 trillion yen, from 2.07 trillion yen. Panasonic had a similar decline in revenue, to 1.7 trillion yen.
 Sony revised its forecast for the full year to a loss of 95 billion yen from a forecast of a loss of 120 billion yen.
 Panasonic said it earned 6.1 billion yen in its latest quarter, its first profit in a year, as sales of its DVD recorders and household appliances showed signs of recovery. The quarter, which ended Sept. 30, is the second of Panasonic's fiscal year. 
 It forecast a net loss for the year ending in March of 140 billion yen, down from a previous forecast for a loss of 195 billion yen. Panasonic's shares also rose about 3 percent.
 The performance of Sony and Panasonic could not match that of Samsung Electronics of South Korea, the world's largest maker of televisions.
 Samsung said profit in the latest quarter, its third of the fiscal year, tripled to 3.72 trillion won, or $3.14 billion, from 1.22 trillion won a year earlier, as it capitalized on investment in new panel technologies and marketing, and took market share from rivals like Sony and Panasonic.
 Sony's chief executive, Howard Stringer, is trying to cut costs. Under a turnaround program, the company has eliminated 16,000 jobs, closed eight factories and sold its main North American television factory in Tijuana, Mexico.
 Mr. Stringer has also tried to get parts of Sony's sprawling empire to collaborate more, particularly urging the company's engineers to work better with developers in software, an area considered a weakness for the company.
 In a bright spot for Sony, its video game operations seemed to be gaining momentum just as Nintendo, the world's largest maker of video game players, appeared to be losing steam. In September, Sony introduced a cheaper version of the PlayStation 3, which helped the console overtake the Nintendo Wii and the Microsoft Xbox 360 to become the top-selling game system in the United States for the month.
 On Thursday, Nintendo lowered its annual profit forecast by 25 percent on slumping sales of the Wii. 
 Sony reported strong demand for Michael Jackson's albums since his death in June. ''Michael Jackson's This Is It,'' a film created from rehearsal tapes left by Mr. Jackson, could also bolster the company's sales. Sony bought the tapes for $60 million. 
 Meanwhile, Sony is seeking to trim losses in its television business by focusing on profitability rather than sales growth. But that has cost Sony global market share in LCD television, which slipped to 14.7 percent in the three months ending in June, from 16.5 percent a year earlier, far behind Samsung, the market leader. The South Korean currency, which is weak compared with the yen, has allowed Samsung and LG Electronics to undercut prices offered by Sony and other Japanese manufacturers. A stronger currency makes products sold overseas more expensive and erodes earnings in the home currency.
 Sony's cellphone joint venture with Ericsson of Sweden has also been a perpetual headache, with no popular smartphone to challenge Apple's iPhone and the BlackBerry from Research in Motion.
 Panasonic, meanwhile, is betting on batteries for hybrids and electric cars by acquiring Sanyo Electric, the world's largest rechargeable battery maker. Panasonic which is based in Osaka, Japan, is eliminating 15,000 jobs in a turnaround effort.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sony's sales of Michael Jackson albums have grown since his death, and ''Michael Jackson's This Is It,'' a film based on tour rehearsal tapes Sony paid $60 million for, has potential for big profits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MAZUR/SONY PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (83%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (79%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CD & DVD DRIVES (74%); MARKET SHARE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (94%); NINTENDO CO LTD (81%); PANASONIC CORP (58%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (94%); SNE (NYSE) (94%); 6758 (TSE) (94%); 7974 (TSE) (81%); PC (NYSE) (58%); 6752 (TSE) (58%); SMSN (LSE) (58%); 005930 (KSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (92%); HOWARD STRINGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

 
