

401 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3142 words

HEADLINE: Uniting the Feudal Lords at Citicorp

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
JOHN S. REED, chairman of Citicorp, is facing the executives who run the company's 15 operating divisions. They barely know each other.
The 15, most of whom have flown in from posts abroad for the two-day meeting at the Citicorp Center in Manhattan, are used to running their businesses as separate empires, answerable only loosely to a multi-tiered hierarchy in New York. But it is early 1992 and the banking giant is in trouble, drowning in bad real estate loans and runaway costs. Mr. Reed asks each of the 15 to put something into the hat, as part of a mired two-year rescue plan to trim expenses by more than $1 billion. 
 Eventually, it is James Bailey's turn. Mr. Bailey runs Citicorp's credit card operation and branch system in the United States, the most profitable business in the sprawling company. In the cocky and freewheeling Citicorp of old, Mr. Bailey was encouraged to invest those profits pretty much any way he pleased.
Now, he is being asked to subordinate his needs to those of the entire company. He sighs and says he will delay opening three new branches in Connecticut that are sure to attract a flock of affluent commuters.
And he does so knowing that one of the executives sitting across from him, Rana Talwar, head of Citicorp's much smaller consumer banking business in Asia, is going to get a green light to open new branches in booming Taiwan. A new branch in Taipei will make money sooner than one in Greenwich or Stamford, Mr. Bailey concedes.
The hat keeps going around the table and the others also make "contributions" for the commonweal, one of the key turning points in Mr. Reed's desperate, and apparently successful, effort to make over Citicorp's culture, a me-first mentality that encouraged bravado and hubris and brought the bank to the brink during the recession.
"We were like a medieval state," said Mr. Bailey in a recent interview. "There was the king and his court and they were in charge, right? No. It was the land barons who were in charge. The king and his court might declare this or that, but the land barons went and did their thing."
That stopped in January 1992, when Mr. Reed purged his court, firing or pushing aside most of his key New York-based aides, including the bank's president, Richard S. Braddock, and invited the barons to join him at a U-shaped version of the Round Table. In the dramatic reorganization, Mr. Reed declared that the 15 "barons" -- all men, 10 of them 50 years of age or younger -- would report directly to him.
Since then, Mr. Reed has convened what has come to be called the Group of 15, or G-15, every month in what amounts to a war council. The G-15 members, through fiat, peer pressure and new compensation arrangements, have been forced to work together to slash costs, cut loan losses and find new business. The group does not make big policy decisions. Instead, its proposals must be approved by a separate six-member committee of the remaining senior executives, including Mr. Reed, who sit in on their meetings.
 
A Big Payback
 Two years after G-15 first began to meet, Citicorp is enjoying a striking recovery. Late last week, the company said it earned about $2.2 billion in 1993, a record for an American bank. Citicorp's loan losses are down, and it has raised enough capital so that it is expected to pay a dividend this year, the first since 1991. And Mr. Bailey has even opened two of the branches he wanted in Connecticut.
"We have gone from feudalism to a nation-state," he said. "We are all running the same company."
The discussion these days at G-15 meetings -- the next one will be held this Wednesday -- now includes more talk of growth. Mr. Reed has been asking each of the executives to say where they would invest money if they got some of the limited capital that is now available. He has also been asking for ambitious new ways to cut costs even more. Last Monday, Mr. Reed's smaller group of senior executives, known as the G-6, approved a package of new cost-cutting proposals from the G-15 that will result in a $425 million charge against earnings in the fourth quarter of 1993. This latest cost-cutting campaign, announced on Thursday, is being coordinated by Christopher Steffen, the former Chrysler and Kodak executive Mr. Reed hired in May to ride herd over expenses as the newest member of the G-6.
To be sure, the G-15 meetings are hardly the only reason for the turnaround. Mr. Reed raised capital by selling stock and he pruned some money-losing businesses. Just last week, for example, Reuters Holdings P.L.C. acquired Citicorp's troubled Quotron financial information computer service, on which it had lost an estimated $1 billion since buying the business in 1986. What's more, the real estate market stabilized, allowing Citicorp to unload the office buildings and shopping malls it had repossessed from bankrupt developers. And the European currency turmoil has led to record profits from trading.
Still, the shift to a more collegial culture could be the most important and long-lasting contribution to Citicorp that Mr. Reed, chairman since 1984 and now 54 years old, will make, because it may keep the bank from getting in trouble again.
 
The Old Way
 The old culture, defined by Walter B. Wriston, the former chairman, emphasized autonomy, internal competition and risk taking and allowed Citicorp to become the most aggressive and innovative player in a stodgy industry.
But that culture also produced a strangling duplication of efforts, resulting, for example, in 11 different computer systems for checking accounts in the United States alone. And because the emphasis was on building revenue, and not assessing overall risks, Citicorp wound up with the biggest portfolio by far of bad real estate loans -- not to mention the billions in bad loans to the third world racked up earlier in the 80's.
In many ways, Citicorp has emerged from the experience shaken and humbled. Gone is the grandiosity that assumed it could dominate businesses ranging from insurance to computer systems. Gone as well is the arrogance that spurned conventional practices, such as adopting industry norms for sufficient levels of capital and loan-loss reserves.
Yet Citicorp is still enormously ambitious. Mr. Reed boasts he has kept its "crown jewels," operations in more than 90 countries, with a range of incredibly profitable specialties, from credit cards to currency trading to a unique presence in the developing world. So while most American banks search for a strategy in what is generally thought to be a shrinking industry, Citicorp has a clear, if vast, mission: to take advantage of its unmatched global reach.
But the critics of Mr. Reed question whether he has the tenacity to continue his new management focus and keep the land barons from again breaking free once the forced discipline of circumstance wanes. And while Mr. Reed has borrowed his new, flatter organization chart from the General Electric Company, even his admirers suggest he does not have the knack that G.E.'s chairman, Jack Welch, has for controlling a decentralized organization.
 
Bringing It Back
 "John admits he took his eye off the ball and didn't watch the loan portfolio; Jack is so obsessed, he would never take his eye off the balance sheet," said Noel M. Tichy, a business professor at the University of Michigan who has studied both companies.
Nonetheless, Mr. Tichy said that Mr. Reed has taken significant steps toward emulating G.E.'s ability to delegate authority yet control risks. "I'm betting that Reed can do it, as long as he doesn't get unfocused or bored," he said. "He wants to be the guy that brought the place back."
Mr. Reed declined to be interviewed for this article. He stopped talking to the press a year ago as the bank's fortunes began to improve. Somewhat like a superstitious baseball player, he has apparently decided to keep silent, lest the good results come to a halt. Nonetheless, Mr. Reed authorized interviews with other senior executives, including members of the Group of 15.
In the interviews, the executives said the seeds of Citicorp's recovery were sown in what was its darkest hour, January 1992.
Losses from the bank's $22 billion portfolio of real estate loans kept mounting. Just before Christmas, the company's stock had slid to $8.50, one third the price of two years earlier. And the banking industry was filled with rumors that Mr. Reed -- whose two-year rescue plan, begun in January 1991, was not working fast enough -- would be fired. He was certainly under substantial pressure from his board and the Government to show he was in charge.
He responded by scrapping the existing operational system, in which divisional heads reported to seven New York-based executives who reported to Mr. Braddock, Citicorp's president, who reported to Mr. Reed. He replaced that with the G-15.
"The G-15 was a big leap for John," said one member of the new group. "It required him to take the president of the bank and put him to the side, not because Rick had done anything wrong, but because John had to get control of the company directly and personally."
Mr. Reed had largely spent his time on strategy and external relations, delegating day-to-day operations to others.
"John is not a hands-on manager, not a lender, not a capital markets guy," said one former top executive. "He's a visionary. It was beneath him to cut costs or read loan files."
For his part, Mr. Braddock joined the G-6 and supervised cost-cutting. But this didn't prove satisfactory to him. After he returned from a trip to Asia in the summer of 1992, he met with Mr. Reed to discuss his role. By several accounts, Mr. Reed became angry at Mr. Braddock during the meeting, criticizing him for not responding quickly to losses in the mortgage division, and abruptly fired him. (Neither man would comment on the incident.)
Mr. Reed's reorganization and purges left him clearly in charge with no obvious successor. That fact could only help bolster his job security at a time when chief executives were being tossed out at General Motors, I.B.M. and American Express.
The G-15 executives, however, have been energized by the new power delegated to them. The group contains several men regarded as rising stars, including Alan MacDonald, who now runs the corporate and investment banking business in the United States, and Victor Menezes, head of consumer banking in Europe. Reflecting the company's international scope, eight of the group's members were born abroad -- one in Pakistan, one in Japan and two each in Argentina, Germany and India.
 
At the Beginning
 When they started, the meetings of the G-15 began at 8 A.M. on the third Thursday of the month and lasted two grueling days. (They are still generally held on the third Thursday but now last only until early afternoon.)
Mr. Reed's version of hands-on management is not so much to bark specific orders but to articulate a clear set of goals and make sure that everyone contributes to them.
Executives first take turns discussing the quality of their loan portfolios and what they are doing to work out any problems. Then they go around the room to talk about how they are raising capital, then again for cutting costs and finally for increasing revenue. To emphasize that the meetings are cooperative rather than a competitive endeavor, no one is allowed to talk about the profits of his individual area.
"We took away the show-and-tell aspect," said Alan Weber, a fast-rising New York-based member of the G-15 in charge of the bank's business with other financial institutions and its huge computerized money transfer operation.
Early on, the repeated rounds of cost cutting produced the most tension. "It was like a poker game," said Mr. Weber. "Everybody coughed up things they didn't want to do."
Sometimes people bluffed. At one early meeting, Mr. Braddock went around the room looking to close a $30 million shortfall, recalls Dennis Martin, who then ran corporate banking in Asia and now has the same role in Latin America.
"He said, 'Dennis, it's great what you did for me yesterday. What can you do for me in the next 10 days?' I said, 'I'll give you $500,000,' then I went home to Singapore thinking, 'How the hell can I get $500,000 fast.' " His answer: sell some of the bank's Asian equity investments and move the Bangkok office into smaller quarters.
Not surprisingly, morale suffered among the ranks of mid-level executives, especially those in businesses that were doing well and had no part in the bad real estate loans. "It's human nature to say, 'Hell, the problems are in New York, why should I suffer here in Malaysia or India?' " said Mr. Martin.
Yet an increasingly upbeat mood developed among the G-15 members. For the first time, they were in regular direct contact with Mr. Reed, and they were shown internal financial statements for all of Citicorp.
 
'A Lot Less Spin'
 "There is a lot less spin," explains Mr. Talwar, the head of consumer banking in Asia. "Before, I had my own agenda, what I wanted to communicate to my boss in my monthly review. A couple of weeks later, I'd see his package to his boss, and it got so sanitized that it lost a lot of substance. The culture now is, it is better to surface problems early. If I screw up, it is my name on the line."
And if peer pressure wasn't enough, Mr. Reed changed the way bonuses would be calculated to emphasize teamwork.
Several years ago, an executive's pay was largely tied to the profits of his business unit. "Now the G-15 is being paid to a great extent on how well the whole is doing," said Guenther Greiner, who is in charge of Citicorp's relationships with the world's 200 largest companies. "Remuneration is not a bad way to influence people's thinking."
Ironically, for a company that has suffered from loose controls, Mr. Reed decided to delegate much more authority to the 15 executives. The size of the loans that they could approve increased sharply, as did their ability to authorize expenses.
"It's much more fun because you have less bureaucracy," said Ernst Brutsche, head of European corporate banking. "I know where the buck stops now. I have only myself to blame if things don't work. I can't say the head office in New York did it."
But while the bank's central credit policy office scrutinizes individual loans less, it is far more vigilant than before at assessing the bigger picture, guarding against too much exposure in certain industries or regions.
Now, with the crisis behind him, Mr. Reed has replaced his financial rescue plan with some intermediate goals. By the end of 1995, he wants the bank to have a double-A credit rating (up from single-A today), to be seen as strongly capitalized and to have its stock selling for twice book value, which is now $25 a share. The stock closed at $42 on Friday, five times what it was worth two years ago, and up 11 percent for the week on news of the record earnings and the latest effort to cut costs.
Mr. Reed now faces perhaps his biggest test as Citicorp's finances allow him once again to take bigger risks. Soon, it will be clear whether he has been able to institutionalize the cultural changes born in the bad-loan crisis. Even members of the G-15 are not sure that has happened yet.
"It's not easy to change 25 years worth of culture in a company, especially when someone as strong as Walt Wriston encouraged an independence that led to fiefdoms and internal rivalries," said Mr. Talwar. "John has decided that is no longer the way, and I can honestly say there has been change at the top. But further down, is everyone being as friendly and collegial as we are at the top? Probably not yet."
 
 
 
CITISPEAK: THE DIALECT TURNS COLLEGIAL
 As the culture at Citicorp has changed, so has the banking giant's lexicon of buzzwords and jargon. Known as Citispeak, the language used to be loaded with terminology reflecting a buccaneering approach to banking. But now, following the company's near-death experience with bad real estate loans, Citispeak's vocabulary carries a more cautious and cooperative message.
 
OLD CITISPEAK
 
PROFIT CENTER EARNINGS: The profit calculated for each of Citicorp's 250 businesses. P.C.E. was the main determinant of promotions and compensation. Businesses were encouraged to compete with each other -- as well as with other banks, of course -- in search of profits.
 PARADISING: Executives creating their own back office and computer facilities in search of perfection and a larger empire. Spending was encouraged because it was assumed the company could earn $2 for every $1 in expenses.
 DEVELOPMENT DIVISION: The ultimate paradise, this vast research and development department spent as much as $100 million a year on long-term projects, such as building a computer-screen telephone.
 ACTUARIAL BASE: The premise that executives were free to take large risks, because the bank was so big and diverse that any problem would be more than offset by successes in other areas. With such a safety net, the thinking went, there was no need for central controls or for the financial cushion of capital.
 FIVE-I: Shorthand for the company's agenda, under the former chairman, Walter Wriston. Citicorp, he declared, would be in five businesses: individual, institutional and investment banking as well as insurance and information.

 NEW CITISPEAK

 OPERATING MARGIN: A calculation of the entire company's pretax profits. Executives are now rewarded for their contribution to building total revenue and to cutting expenses and bad loans, rather than being measured solely by their own unit's profits. Internecine warfare is now discouraged.
 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT: Cost cutting as a way of life. Executives now must share computer systems and support staff such as auditors. Since 19TK, Citicorp has eliminated 14,000 jobs, leaving about TK,000, and cut $1.9 billion in annual expenses, leaving a budget of $ TK billion. Christopher Steffens, formerly of Chrysler and Eastman Kodak, has been hired to cut another $1 billion.
 SUCCESS TRANSFER: The discovery that good ideas occur in Citicorp operating units around the world that could be useful in other places. The development division is defunct.
 WINDOWS ON RISK: New ways to gauge -- and limit -- the company's total exposure to regions, industries and financial markets, a change that flowed from the realization that losses on $20 billion in real estate loans could not be offset by anything. Just in case the windows prove opaque, Citicorp is raising a lot more capital.
 GLOBAL, UNIQUE. John Reed's description of his new, more limited strategy based on only one "I": international. Nearly all of Citicorp's efforts now are to take advantage of the company's unmatched presence in more than 90 countries.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John S. Reed, chairman of Citicorp, and the operational chiefs who comprise the Group of 15. The Group of 15 -- Numbers are keyed to photos on Page 1. 1. James Bailey, 48, North America consumer operations; 2. Ernst Brutsche, 56, Europe global finance; 3. Hubertus Rukavina, 44, private banking; 4. Victor Menezes, 44, European consumer operations; 5. Ron Zettel, 59, Latin America consumer operations; 6. Shaukat Aziz, 44, Asia/Pacific global finance; 7. Alan MacDonald, 50, North America global finance; 8. Rana Talwar, 45, Asia/Pacific consumer operations; 9. Guenther Greiner, 55, multinational corporations; 10. David Gibson, 53, Central Europe, Middle East and Africa global finance; 11. Masamoto Yashiro, 64, Japan global finance and consumer operations; 12. Alan Weber, 44, financial institutions and transaction services; 13. Mike deGraffenried, 45, loans to developing countries; 14. Dennis Martin, 50, Latin America global finance; 15. Bob McCormack, 50, real estate.
 
Graph: "John Reed's Bumpy Ride" shows Citicorp. earnings since John Reed became chairman in 1984. (Source: Keefe, Bruyette & Woods)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (90%); ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (89%); TAIWAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFRICA (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: CITICORP CITIGROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITICORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (90%); ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (89%); TAIWAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFRICA (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BANK BRANCHES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; REED, JOHN S JACK REED (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



402 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Finding New Ways To Strengthen Athletes' Marketing Muscles

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.

 BODY:
MENTION potato chips, and Frank Vuono thinks of quarterbacks.
Mention sneakers, and Frank Vuono thinks of three-point shooting guards. 
 Mention soft drinks, and Frank Vuono thinks of linebackers.
A Princeton graduate with an industrial-strength Rolodex amassed in seven years as vice president of National Football League Properties' retail licensing division, Mr. Vuono and his partners, Steve Rosner and Fred Fried, created a business eight months ago that is finding new ways to sell the star appeal of athletes, teams and other sports organizations to businesses looking for marketing prowess.
In the months since it began work, Mr. Vuono's firm, Integrated Sports International, has helped strike a number of deals that attest to the growing sophistication with which sports icons are being deployed to make money for themselves and others:
* It created an unusually wide-ranging marketing strategy for the San Francisco 49ers that the team lacked the resources to plan and implement. It includes an off-season fantasy camp (where die-hard fans can suit up and take the field with current and former players), a collectibles and memorabilia business, events to finance a team charitable foundation, producing and selling television and radio shows, and hawking scoreboard advertising at Candlestick Park. I.S.I. is helping to execute the plan.
"The impetus for this was when Steve Young's deal was being negotiated, the 49ers were faced with how they'll get enough money to pay their players," Mr. Vuono said, referring to the quarterback who signed a five-year contract for $26.75 million.
* I.S.I. helped create Coca-Cola's $14 million "Monsters of the Gridiron" television, print and radio campaign last fall, which starred 28 National Football League players as monstrous characters. Six of the players were secured by I.S.I. Assembling such a bevy of players is rare and illustrates the type of group deal I.S.I. lusts to broker.
* The company renegotiated a local television deal for Warren Moon, the Houston Oilers quarterback, that reaped Mr. Moon three times what he got when the station paid him a flat fee. I.S.I. eliminated the fee and instead reached an agreement under which Mr. Moon is paid out of advertising revenues from his show. Three of the companies for which Mr. Moon does endorsements are contractually required to buy spots on the show. Mr. Rosner said the deal will be a model for similar agreements for Mr. Young and the Dallas Cowboys quarterback Troy Aikman.
* I.S.I. crafted a relationship for Boomer Esiason, the New York Jets quarterback, with Frito-Lay Inc. that cast him as the star of a commercial with several other players last fall and made him the first player to have his face on a potato-chip bag. I.S.I. also persuaded Frito-Lay to contribute to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (Mr. Esiason's son, Gunnar, has the disease) and sponsor his 15-minute radio appearance each Friday of the season on WFAN-AM in New York City.
* I.S.I. has handled delicate negotiations among the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing, star drivers, car owners and race-team sponsors to create a Nascar Drivers Club to sell merchandise pitched by some of the nation's top stock-car drivers. (The deal is nearly complete.)
HE idea of new uses for sports in marketing is by no means I.S.I.'s alone. The Walt Disney Company used its popular children's hockey film, "The Mighty Ducks," to spawn a professional hockey team, the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, whose retail merchandise is sold at Disney's theme parks and its chain of retail stores. H. Wayne Huizenga, chairman of Blockbuster Entertainment, acquired a chunk of a football team, the Miami Dolphins, and the stadium in which it plays, then bought a baseball team, the Florida Marlins, and a hockey team, the Florida Panthers. Each part of his sports empire promotes his chain of video stores.
And none of what I.S.I. does is unique. Sports management firms like the International Management Group and ProServ perform similar roles, but only on behalf of players they already represent for salary negotiations and financial planning.
I.S.I.'s singularity lies in its being free to represent any athlete whose agent is willing to hand over the marketing reins. I.S.I.'s sole desire is to market players, not to be an agent in salary talks. "We're open to anybody," Mr. Vuono said. "We're not exclusionary."
I.S.I. operates like a football free safety, roaming the field, seeking engagement. But it could have a problem if prospective clients are scared away by the potential for favoritism toward the interests of its investors. Besides the three principals, the key backers of I.S.I. are Leigh Steinberg, the Newport Beach, Calif., agent who represents 23 N.F.L. quarterbacks, including Mr. Aikman, Mr. Young and Mr. Moon; Logo 7, an Indianapolis-based apparel manufacturer and a leading sports licensee; and Apex One, a footwear and apparel manufacturer based in Piscataway, N.J.
Some agents worry that Mr. Steinberg's clients may be favored in deals I.S.I. concocts, beyond the usual pay differences between, say, quarterbacks and running backs.
Mr. Steinberg said that his ownership stake in I.S.I. should not scare off other agents and that he exerts no management role at the firm. "The point is not to narrow the scope of the athlete," he said, "but to expand it."
I.S.I. insists it has no biases. It cites deals made with several unaffiliated agents and an agreement with Adidas struck even though Apex, a footwear rival, is an I.S.I. investor.
Terry Bender, the agent for the Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Randall Cunningham, agreed. "Business is business," said Mr. Bender, who advised his client to join the "Monsters of the Gridiron" when Mr. Aikman was injured, Mr. Young declined because he eschews caffeine and a third quarterback, Dan Marino of the Miami Dolphins, was rejected because he had once done a commercial for Pepsi.
Another concern expressed by competing agents is that I.S.I. will promise athletes whom it can't deliver. "Sometimes you don't know how a deal came about or if they volunteered a player they don't have for a deal," said Ralph Stringer, Mr. Marino's agent.
One agent who probably won't be doing any business with Mr. Vuono is Leonard Armato, who represents Shaquille O'Neal, basketball's 7-foot-1, 304-pound backboard-shaking marketing phenomenon. Mr. Vuono worked on Mr. O'Neal's deals while he was employed at N.F.L. Properties.
Mr. Armato said I.S.I. exaggerated its connection to the marketing of Mr. O'Neal. "I read some blown-up things about what I.S.I. was doing with Shaq," Mr. Armato said. "But they did nothing for Shaquille."
Mr. Vuono said: "Leonard's done a great job with Shaq. I might have done some things differently."
Mr. Vuono and his partners have managed to blend three disparate talents into a fast-growing new business. Mr. Vuono was one of the sports-licensing industry's most powerful figures, running the highest-profile division of N.F.L. Properties. The retail licensing division produced sales of N.F.L. merchandise estimated at $2.5 billion last year. He masterminded successful product extensions like the Quarterbacks Club, an amalgamation of 19 signal callers that sells a line of merchandise.
"It was probably a shock to his boss, John Bello, that most people thought Vuono ran N.F.L. Properties," said Bob Carr, editor of Inside Sporting Goods, an industry newsletter. "With Frank there, no one knew Bello existed."
Mr. Fried, who specializes in marketing, helped devise the early marketing plans for Michael Jordan during his five years at ProServ, the sports management firm, and orchestrated the selling of Mr. Esiason when he quarterbacked the Cincinnati Bengals.
Mr. Rosner, as an agent, represented Lawrence Taylor, the New York Giants linebacker; Carl Banks, the Washington Redskins linebacker, and two dozen others.
The trio has connections. There is also some bravado. "With us, one plus one plus one plus equals ten," Mr. Fried said.
I.S.I. operates out of a 15th-floor suite in a building overlooking Giants Stadium here. On one recent day, Mr. Vuono gave Mr. Taylor advice on a new licensing deal and confirmed a Cadillac endorsement. Peter Moore, the president of Adidas America, discussed plans for a deal with John Starks, the New York Knicks guard, and apparel deals for groups signed by Rough House, a rap music label that retained I.S.I.
I.S.I.'s relationships traverse the sports world: players like Mr. Taylor and baseball's Will Clark, members of the United States World Cup soccer team (for whom I.S.I. got an Upper Deck sports card deal), leagues like the N.F.L. and the Association of Volleyball Professionals, and sporting-goods makers like Adidas and Gatorade. The firm claims 1993 revenues of a few million dollars.
HOWEVER, the bigger the picture gets, the greater the potential management risks for I.S.I. The firm will have to expand aggressively outside its acknowledged expertise in football to other sports, and find ways to promote and market players who aren't top-of-the-line stars.
After all, quarterbacks will always be easy to get commercial deals for, but what about, say, the grittier offensive or defensive players, most of whom lack the flash of Deion Sanders, the Atlanta Falcons cornerback?
A client like Cortez Kennedy, a 300-pound defensive tackle for the Seattle Seahawks, is a case in point: a great player on a small-market, mediocre team. "He's a tough sell, even if he was Defensive Player of the Year last year," Mr. Rosner said. "The market doesn't help. But we'll try to align him regionally, then include him with other players in some national deals. But to be honest, not everybody is marketable."
 
 
 
COMING SOON: THE COCA-COLA GIANTS?
 THE grand vision at Integrated Sports International is of sports blending seamlessly with the business, music and entertainment worlds, where each needs the others to sell more tickets, soda, compact disks or movies.
"That's the future, where sports will come together with the corporate world, and ultimately we'll have the Coca-Cola Giants," said Frank Vuono, president of I.S.I.
That's not so farfetched. Japanese baseball teams are named for the corporations that own them. And major league baseball, with its escalating player salaries and financial woes, is trying to forge closer ties with companies to buy advertising on television and radio and in ballparks.
"It's going to happen," Mr. Vuono said. "The economics of running a team will dictate it. Team owners will only be able to get their return on investment through that kind of integration."
I.S.I.'s dream deal is to expand its sports and corporate connections and begin a league "where we put together the players, the owners, the sponsors and the broadcasters and manage the league," Mr. Vuono said.
How likely is that? If I.S.I. develops enough contacts in a sport, through its connections with agents representing players and broadcasters, and through its work with corporations that would own or sponsor teams, it could act as the chief broker of talent and money for a new league. It is the quantity of I.S.I.'s affiliations that would make or break such a venture.
Speculation about new leagues has centered on football, but Mr. Vuono, who is cagey, declined to say he is involved with such a project. I.S.I.'s affiliations with soccer and volleyball may also portend leagues. "And lacrosse is a fast-paced, energetic sport."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Rosner (left), Frank Vuono and Fred Fried, who began Integrated Sports International eight months ago, in their office overlooking Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: INTEGRATED SPORTS INTERNATIONAL FRITO-LAY INC (84%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEGRATED SPORTS INTERNATIONAL SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); SNACK FOODS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (75%); RADIO ADVERTISING (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (70%); CHARITIES (69%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (66%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD STEVE YOUNG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



403 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
A Firing for Cause, or for Abortion?

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
WHEN Robin Flanigan found out she was pregnant, late in 1990, she was 21, unmarried -- though engaged -- and new at her hairdresser's job at the Revelations in Hair Design salon in Columbia, Md. She was not ready to have a baby. Ms. Flanigan comes from a devout Christian background. "Abortion is against our religion," she said, so she contemplated that path with intense ambivalence. "It's something I thought I would never do," she said. "But I knew basically I was going to do it."
For making that decision -- and following through in early December of 1990 -- Ms. Flanigan contends she was harassed and fired from her job. Late last year, she filed a civil suit alleging wrongful dismissal against her former employers, Robin and Patrice Davidson, the salon's owners. The crux of the complaint, which is to be served shortly, contends the Davidsons tried to interfere with a statutorily protected activity. 
 Through their lawyer in Baltimore, Susan R. Green, the Davidsons maintain they fired Ms. Flanigan "for cause," namely, poor performance; a bad, even threatening, attitude, and a refusal to meet with them to discuss her shortcomings.
Thus the case is either an example of a new, especially Orwellian employer intrusion into the private life of an employee -- or a travesty of the legal process.
There have been half a dozen complaints around the country of women being fired for ending their pregnancies, according to Lewis Maltby, director of the workplace rights office at the American Civil Liberties Union in New York. One, in Michigan, ended in favor of the plaintiff; most of the others faded without reaching court. Employers who dismiss women who have abortions are "using their power to hire and fire to enforce their own moral values," Mr. Maltby said. "It's just one more example of employers sticking their noses into people's private lives."
In Ms. Green's view, the Flanigan suit isn't an example of anything other than opportunism. "Our belief is that the public will feel very used when all the facts come out," Ms. Green said. "Employees' rights -- the ability to work in a workplace free of interference -- are important. It is important that cases be based on fact."
The facts according to Ms. Flanigan: When the Davidsons learned she was pregnant in November 1990, they launched, in the words of the complaint, "an endless assault against the plaintiff to coerce her and intimidate her into not having the abortion." The campaign, Ms. Flanigan contends, ranged from offers to help with the baby to letters, calls to family members and interruptions at work. At one point, someone hung photos of aborted fetuses at her work station, the complaint says.
Ms. Flanigan ended her pregnancy on Dec. 11, 1990. On Dec. 15, she was dismissed. "It's too much of a close nexus for me to believe that abortion wasn't a very large concern of the Davidsons," said David B. Shapiro, Ms. Flanigan's lawyer. She applied for unemployment benefits and was turned down twice before a state panel ruled in her favor in 1991.
Ms. Flanigan simmered with anger, sought counseling and finally decided last year -- having let opportunities to file a discrimination claim with a government agency lapse -- to sue. "It is a very personal issue. I was not sure how I would feel about doing it," Ms. Flanigan said of the delay. "I am still very upset and emotional. I have had nightmares for over a year about pictures of dead babies." She is now married and is working again as a hairdresser. She is seeking $3.7 million in damages from the Davidsons.
REACHED by telephone at his salon last week, Robin Davidson declined to talk about the case, on orders, he said, from Ms. Green, his lawyer. Ms. Green, who said she prefers to keep her clients on ice until she has received the complaint officially and had a chance to respond, issued a blanket denial of Ms. Flanigan's complaints.
"We don't deny that Ms. Flanigan approached Patrice for counsel," Ms. Green said. "Patrice was asked for an opinion. Ms. Flanigan knew she was . . . ." Ms. Green hesitated. Pro-life, a reporter asked? Ms. Green declined to characterize the Davidsons as "pro-life," though they have been quoted as describing themselves that way in print. The term "pro-life" has elusive connotations, Ms. Green suggested. "It's an individual trying to promote one stance," she said. "I can't classify them that way because they have flexibility that includes sensitivity to other people's choices."
Ms. Flanigan distorted the offers of help from the Davidsons, Ms. Green said, and it was relatives of Ms. Flanigan who called the Davidsons, not vice versa. As for the fetus pictures, they were "not placed by the Davidsons or at the request of the Davidsons," Ms. Green said. She credits Mr. Shapiro with a "creative cause of action" doomed for defeat. She intends to file a counterclaim against Ms. Flanigan.
If the dispute is resolved in Robin Flanigan's favor, will the case be seen as a victory for reproductive rights or for the right to privacy? Mr. Maltby of the A.C.L.U. says that is a false dichotomy. "I don't see it as being about abortion at all," he said. "The reason it's wrong to fire someone is not because abortion is a good thing. It's just as wrong as firing someone for refusing to have one."
 
 
 
TRYING TO DEFINE DISCRIMINATION
THE deadlines on filing discrimination complaints at various Government agencies had passed by the time Robin Flanigan decided to take formal action against her former employers, who she says fired her because she had an abortion. But it's not clear she would have had a strong discrimination claim in any case.
"You have a constitutional right to have an abortion. It seems peculiar to say if you exercise your rights, you can't work here," said Stuart Comstock-Gay, director of the Baltimore chapter of the A.C.L.U. But, he said, "What does it fall under? Under the Pregnancy Discrimination Act? Under general gender discrimination laws? So far as I know, the issue has not been fully litigated."
Lewis Maltby, of the A.C.L.U. in New York, went through a similar catalogue of possible remedies before concluding that women who lose their jobs over abortions are not part of a protected class. A stronger argument may be that employers should stay out of employee life-style decisions that don't affect work. "It's not the abortion that's the issue," Mr. Maltby said. "It's an employer using economic muscle to force an employee to make a decision."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robin Flanigan, plaintiff, in Baltimore. "I am still very upset and emotional," she said. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (88%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LABOR LITIGATION (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); ABORTION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); RELIGION (77%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY; FLANIGAN, ROBIN

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



404 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: Russian Truck Maker Becomes a Lab for U.S. Deals

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: NABEREZHNYE CHELNY, Russia

 BODY:
BY the late 1980's, Nikolai I. Bekh was fed up. As head of the vast Kamaz truck factory here, Mr. Bekh felt shackled by the Soviet Union's central planners, who cared little about his efforts to develop new products, improve quality and increase exports.
So, in an almost unheard-of step, Mr. Bekh went to Moscow with a request that Kamaz, the world's largest maker of heavy-duty trucks and one of the nation's largest industrial enterprises, be freed from state control. Even more remarkably, the Government agreed. In 1990, Kamaz became Russia's first big company to become private. 
 Since then, as political support for economic change has ebbed and flowed, Kamaz has pressed steadily ahead with a sweeping program to remake itself for a free market. Today it stands as a prototype for post-Soviet industry, and its experience is being studied closely in Moscow as Russia begins the process of sending its 14,000 other big state-owned enterprises -- some even larger than Kamaz -- into the capitalist fray.
Moreover, Kamaz has become a testing ground for a handful of pioneering companies from the United States that are gaining invaluable experience operating in Russia through joint ventures and other deals with the truck maker.
Its future is by no means assured. Mr. Bekh and Kamaz employees -- 130,000 here in this bleak company town 700 miles northeast of Moscow and 40,000 more scattered around the former Soviet Union -- continue to struggle not just with the nation's political spasms, but with huge business challenges.
Kamaz needs hundreds of millions of dollars of outside investment to finance new products. It must begin to reduce employment to hold costs down, a politically tricky step. It needs to shuck off responsibility to reluctant local and regional governments for financing and running schools, hospitals, mass transportation and other services that have traditionally been provided by big Russian enterprises.
It has had to build a marketing department from scratch and totally recast its financial accounting. Trade with the former Soviet republics has become more difficult, complicating relationships with key suppliers and customers. On top of everything else, a fire destroyed the company's engine factory in Naberezhnye Chelny (pronounced NAH-bir-izh-ni-yeh chil-NEUH) in April, crippling production for months.
But Kamaz has come a long way toward its goal of looking and acting like a Western company. Government ownership has been reduced from 51 percent right after the privatization to 20 percent as more stock is distributed to suppliers, customers, managers, workers and investors.
Production workers say they have come to understand that their futures depend on working hard. Junior executives are busy attending seminars on quality control. Engineers are preparing for a diversification into bus production. And Mr. Bekh is already talking about tripling truck exports, to 40,000 a year, or about a third of Kamaz's total truck production, to compete against European and Asian rivals.
"When the Government distributes your profits and the ministry decides your future, the motivation to work is missing," Mr. Bekh said in a recent interview. "At least now, when I hold a board meeting, we're trying to focus on the right issues. All of Kamaz is now involved in adopting world standards."
One yardstick of progress is the crowd of Western joint-venture partners, suppliers, consultants and potential investors found at the "House of Foreign Specialists," the company-run dormitory on the frozen plains of Tatarstan that is as close as the business traveler can come to a Hilton.
Kamaz has already agreed to a $300 million venture to build engines with the Cummins Engine Company, of Columbus, Ind. The Rockwell International Corporation, of Seal Beach, Calif., is negotiating to supply or coproduce a wide range of vehicle components and is already selling factory automation equipment to Kamaz. Daimler-Benz has expressed interest in a joint venture. Deloitte & Touche, the accounting and consulting firm, is working with Kamaz to develop Western-style financial systems.
"They've got a ton of difficulties," said Donald Beall, Rockwell's chairman, who traveled here in the fall to meet Mr. Bekh. "But it's our judgment that whenever and however this thing shakes out, they're going to be producing a lot of trucks and buses, and we'd like to help them."
MOREOVER, the speed and the sheer scale of Kamaz's effort to remake itself is giving Western companies a rare opportunity to learn the nuts and bolts of doing business in Russia.
"We're embarking into uncharted waters," said Harold S. Swann, a senior vice president at the American Re-insurance Company of Princeton, N.J., which was hired by Kamaz to develop its first property insurance program -- the first for any large Russian enterprise -- after last spring's fire left the company with hundreds of millions of dollars in uninsured losses. "Our hope is that this will be a model for future activity in the former Soviet Union," Mr. Swann said.
Kamaz's fate rests largely with Mr. Bekh, a burly 47-year-old engineer. He is starting from a stronger position than managers of most other huge Russian enterprises. Founded in 1972, Kamaz has more modern equipment than most, and its products, sold to nearly every company in Russia that needs trucks to haul freight or raw materials, have a reputation for reliability and durability.
Domestically, Kamaz has a near-monopoly on heavy trucks and a well-developed distribution and service network that could allow a Western partner to sell its vehicles throughout the former Soviet Union. Abroad, Kamaz benefits from its low wage and materials costs, which allow it to price a middle-of-the-line truck for $14,000, a third or less the price of similar Western makes.
Its biggest export markets have been China, Cuba and Eastern Europe, but the company is increasingly trying to crack the Western European market. Kamaz is the world's biggest producer of trucks capable of carrying more than seven tons and is the eighth-largest truck producer over all, slightly behind Daimler-Benz.
Still, Mr. Bekh is having to rebuild the company almost from top to bottom. As a production company, Kamaz makes nearly all its own parts, including engines. But until being privatized, it lacked departments to handle functions like marketing and sales, which are integral parts of Western corporations.
Having always been judged on a single criterion -- its ability to meet production quotas -- Kamaz, with the help of Deloitte & Touche, has had to develop and put in place entirely new accounting systems to provide managers with information about prices and costs, not to mention alien principles like return on investment and profitability. (It is profitable but at least partly because raw-material and energy prices remain artificially low.)
It has begun trying to inculcate its production workers and managers with Western concepts of quality, initiative and responsibility for the inevitable day when Kamaz faces competition both at home and abroad.
It clearly has a long way to go. On one recent night, the production line in one cavernous assembly plant was shut down because of a parts shortage, and workers sat idly, griping about Russia's economic woes. But in one group of half a dozen workers, all said they were working harder to secure Kamaz's future. "It's our jobs, and our bread," said one.
Under a new quality program, all engines, vehicles and major components are numbered, and the company's 200 service centers around the former Soviet Union now keep detailed service histories for each truck. Records are regularly sent back to the factory so managers can analyze problems and find ways to address them.
As the company's designers develop new models, Mr. Bekh for the first time has them consulting market research to learn what potential buyers want in a truck. Many Russian customers, for example, are for the first time paying attention to fuel consumption as energy prices are deregulated.
"In three to five years we're going to have closer price comparisons with the West, and those with whom we compete are going to flock here, so we have to be ready," he said.
KAMAZ is clearly relying on its Western partners to equip it to survive that impending competitive onslaught. Indeed, looking at Kamaz through the eyes of Western companies gives a sense of the scale and difficulty of the task facing Mr. Bekh and of the business opportunity represented by Kamaz -- and by Russia generally.
Cummins, for example, first made contact with Kamaz in 1987 as it began exploring how it could crack the Soviet Union's huge market for diesel engines. In 1991, after the privatization, Cummins signed a 50-50 joint venture deal with Kamaz that, typical of Western companies, was based on a go-slow approach.
Initially, Cummins was to supply engines built at its plant in Britain, primarily engines that met strict Western European emissions requirements for trucks being exported by Kamaz or being used by Russian customers who want to drive them to and from the West. But it would only gradually invest money in production here in Naberezhnye Chelny, with coproduction of engines limited to around 20,000 a year by the end of the decade.
The fire last spring, however, made a larger and faster-moving engine venture a top priority for Kamaz. The truck maker has already been able to rebuild part of the engine factory, but needs additional investment to build new, more efficient engines.
After the fire, Kamaz held talks with 12 engine companies around the world. Ultimately, it stuck with Cummins after the American company agreed to drop its go-slow approach and pursue an expanded and accelerated deal to coproduce 50,000 engines a year, with production to begin around 1996.
The April fire also forced Kamaz to deal with a need it had never before addressed: insurance. Under communism, the country had no insurance industry to speak of (the state, as the owner of all property, absorbed all losses). But potential Western partners insisted that the plant be insured, despite the near-total lack of coverage within Russia.
American Re-insurance had advised the Russian Government on drafting an insurance law. After being hired by Kamaz, it sent in a team to determine whether the factory was designed well enough and had enough safety equipment, like sprinklers, to be considered insurable for fire damage by Western standards.
The answer, Mr. Swann said, was yes. So American Re-insurance is now trying to line up other Western insurers to share the risk. In the long run, Mr. Swann said, American Re-insurance would like to help Kamaz identify other insurance needs. And then it would like to use the experience gained with Kamaz to do business with other Russian companies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nikolai I. Bekh, head of Kamaz, explains the company's distribution and service network. Kamaz is a model for post-Soviet industry. An assembly line at the production complex. The company hopes to foster initiative and responsibility among workers. Employees played dominoes during a production line problem. (Photographs by Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)
 
Map: Kamaz is based 700 miles from Moscow in Naberezhnye Chelny. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: KAMAZ INC

ORGANIZATION: KAMAZ INC

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



405 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: The Missile Pact's Problem;
Fear of Russia Is a Way of Life for Ukraine

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine

 BODY:
FOR three centuries, almost without interruption, the Russians ruled much or all of Ukraine, often brutally. They patronizingly called Ukrainians "little Russians."
So when a referendum was held in 1991 on whether Ukraine should be an independent nation, 90 percent of the 52 million people living there voted for freedom from Moscow, a status they thought would propel them out of the Russian sphere of influence and into the rest of Europe. "A new country has appeared on the map of Europe," President Leonid Kravchuk declared. 
 But as the economy dramatically worsened -- Russia now looks like a haven of economic stability by comparison -- and as ultranationalists gained ground in Moscow, Ukrainians came to worry more about Big Brother. This is why it is difficult for many Ukrainians, even those who favor nuclear disarmament, to accept the elimination of the country's missiles as envisaged by the pact agreed upon last week by the leaders of Russia, the United States and Ukraine. For one thing, some Ukrainians don't want to be without nuclear weapons if Russia still has them. For another, the Ukrainian missiles would be shipped back to Russia itself for dismantling.
These fears are felt unequally in different sections of the country. In the more Catholic west, where ties to Poland are strongest, resistance to things that seem Russian, whether the Orthodox Church or the Soviet state, has always been more strident. In the eastern mining region around the Don River, much of the population is Russian and anti-Russian sentiment is muted.
The Clinton Administration, aware of the Ukrainian jitters about the Russians and about their own vulnerability, has tried to cajole with financial assistance, compensation for the nuclear material and an offer to take part in the Partnership for Peace, the emerging form of association with NATO for Eastern Europe. An invitation to President Kravchuk to visit Washington was thrown in. And Russia is to cancel most of the huge debt Ukraine owes for the Russian oil it depends on.
All this, the Americans told the Ukrainians, would secure their independence, not undermine it; a nonthreatening, stable Ukraine would be easier for Russian leaders to accept. By signing the accord in Moscow Friday, Mr. Kravchuk implicitly accepted the thesis.
But many Ukrainians, particularly the noisy nationalists in Parliament, say history tells them such tactics do not work. Russian domination was dramatized in 1709 when Ivan Mazepa, the Cossack hetman, or leader, allied with King Charles of Sweden against Russia's Peter the Great, was beaten at a famous battle at Poltava. Catherine the Great completed the suppression by disarming the Ukrainian leader Zaporozhie Sich in 1775. She also claimed the Crimean Peninsula for Russia.
 
A Brief Independence
 Ukraine had a brief fling with independence after World War I but its eastern lands were reabsorbed into the Russian empire as a Soviet republic, and the west was added at Poland's expense after World War II.
Stalin's collectivization drive was more destructive in Ukraine than anywhere else; in the man-made famine of 1933, millions of Ukrainian peasants starved to death. Ukrainians often blame the Russians, even though Stalin was a Georgian and the Communist Party engineered it. In a moving testimony to Ukraine's new independence from Moscow, a memorial was recently erected in a pine forest outside Kiev where thousands of victims' bodies were dumped in a mass grave.
Today, as the Ukrainian economy barely sputters along, Ukraine's leaders put much of the blame for the chaos on Russia, even though there seems plenty of evidence that they need a scapegoat for their own mismanagement, corruption and resistance to reform. Russia made matters worse this winter when it raised the price of its oil to Ukraine almost to world prices.
Provocative actions by the Russian Parliament don't help either. In a long-running argument over who owns the Black Sea Fleet, the Russian Parliament last year passed a motion reclaiming Sevastopol, the base for the fleet in Crimea, as Russian territory. The Crimean Peninsula has been considered part of Ukraine since 1954, when Nikita Khrushchev returned what Catherine the Great had annexed.
Many Western experts see a denuclearized and economically assisted Ukraine as essential. One of these is Zbigniew Brzezinski, who was Jimmy Carter's national security adviser and whose son Ian is on the council of advisers to the Ukrainian Parliament. The elder Mr. Brzezinski has criticized the Clinton Administration's emphasis on Moscow and has been encouraging more attention to Ukraine. "If we don't want the Russian empire restored we have to have a strong Ukraine," he said. This meant, he added, not just removing the weapons but insuring some economic plums that would make Ukraine feel as wanted as Russia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (92%); SWEDEN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE; RUSSIA; UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (92%); SWEDEN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-UKRAINE NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (88%); REFERENDUMS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); WORLD WAR II (63%); WORLD WAR I (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



406 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Mr. Clinton, Meet Mr. Assad (And Never Mind His Past)

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
HAFEZ AL-ASSAD didn't show much enthusiasm a few weeks ago, when Secretary of State Warren Christopher told him in Damascus that President Clinton wanted to meet him. He had to check his calendar, the Syrian leader said, and he telephoned aides to make sure there was no scheduling conflict. Even then, he told Mr. Christopher that he needed more time.
The incident says a lot about the man who ultimately decided he could find time for Mr. Clinton, and who is to meet with him today in a Geneva hotel -- one more step in the American effort to draw Mr. Assad closer to peace with Israel. Even though Mr. Assad had lost his Soviet patrons, even though he felt betrayed when Yasir Arafat started bargaining with Israel on his own, Mr. Assad felt in a position to keep the President of the United States in suspense. 
 By all accounts, the 64-year-old Syrian, who has ruled his country since 1970, is still the charming raconteur who dazzled Henry A. Kissinger with what the former Secretary of State once called a "first class mind allied to a wicked sense of humor." But Mr. Assad is also a tired, sick man, a dictator who ordered the massacre of 20,000 Syrian civilians in the city of Hama 12 years ago, and whose country remains on the State Department's list of terrorist countries for giving support and safe haven to a dozen terrorist groups.
In meeting him today, Mr. Clinton is gambling that he will find a bold statesman unwilling to resist a chance to make history in his remaining years as Syria's President, and therefore poised to make peace with Israel. That is why Mr. Clinton has chosen to sit down with Mr. Assad -- the wise and far-sighted Mr. Assad, that is, rather than the cunning and brutal Mr. Assad. "Forget about all the issues between us and Syria," Mr. Clinton told a group of columnists this month when he was asked what justified the meeting. "Let's just talk about the peace process now."
The American side does not see the meeting as an occasion for make-or-break bargaining. Rather, it is an opportunity for Mr. Clinton to establish trust with Mr. Assad by hearing him out, and to dispel any doubt about this Administration's commitment to a comprehensive Middle East peace. The meeting is also an opportunity to jump-start the stalled peace talks that began in Washington nearly two years ago after Mr. Assad agreed to hold direct negotiations with Israel.
Administration officials rattle off a number of indications that Mr. Assad has made a strategic choice for peace with Israel, including his decision not to sabotage the Israeli-Palestinian accord as he did the American-brokered Israel-Lebanon agreement a decade ago; his statements about the possibility of making progress at different speeds on different peace tracks; his tentative steps to prepare his ruling Baath Party and his army for a coming peace; his willingness to help locate Israeli servicemen missing in Lebanon.
The American side has reason to expect that the personal chemistry in Geneva will be good. In his memoirs, Jimmy Carter said that in Geneva in 1977, he found Mr. Assad to be "quite gracious, completely relaxed, humorous in his remarks and extremely interested in my efforts to arrange peace negotiations." Mr. Clinton will find a man so disciplined that he can sit for hours without moving his legs, so jocular that he laughs loudly at his own jokes. And like Mr. Clinton, he has an extraordinary passion for talking issues to death. After four hours of conversation last month, he asked Mr. Christopher if he wanted to invite in his group for a larger meeting. "Frankly, Mr. President," Mr. Christopher replied, "I'm hungry."
"My strongest reaction to Assad is he always seems to have all the time in the world," said Richard N. Haass, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace who dealt with Middle East issues for the Bush White House. "Meetings with him are not negotiations. They are sizing-up sessions to make points and get reactions. Assad will use this meeting to impress Clinton and try to take Clinton's measure. It's Assad buying time for the day when Israel is ready to deal with Syria."
Not everyone is convinced Mr. Assad is ready to be flexible. The French Foreign Minister, Alain Juppe, suffered through a long monologue justifying Syria's domination of Lebanon when he met Mr. Assad in November. The Turkish Foreign Minister, Hikmet Cetin, has found Mr. Assad unresponsive to Turkey's concerns about Syria's support for a Kurdish terrorist group that trains in a Syrian-controlled area in Lebanon.
"We're not very much impressed by Assad any more," said a senior French official. "Sure, he was charming, smiling, talkative, but he looks old and tired and tense. He talked about how he had to take into account public opinion in Syria which did not tolerate Syrians killed in Lebanon. He also said what a financial sacrifice it was for Syria to be in Lebanon. We couldn't believe our ears."
The personable gloss aside, American policy makers, particularly Mr. Christopher, understand that Mr. Assad has not suddenly transformed himself into a benign grandfather. Whenever Mr. Christopher has raised the issue of Syria's support for terrorism, he gets a standard, well-rehearsed and unhelpful response. And the charm evaporates when tough issues are raised.
During a discussion with Mr. Christopher last month about the economic opportunities that would accompany peace, Mr. Assad digressed with an observation that the Syrian merchants were the best in the Middle East because of their patience. While others say take it or leave it, he said, Syrian merchants gently welcome potential customers, woo them with coffee and urge them to take their time, or come back another day. "The very best of the merchants happen to be the Syrian Jews, and of course, you want them to leave," Mr. Assad said, reminding Mr. Christopher of the American demand that all Syrian Jews be allowed to emigrate.
When Mr. Christopher seized the opportunity to remind Mr. Assad of the importance the United States puts on freedom of choice, Mr. Assad turned stone cold, and the easy banter suddenly ended.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (60%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (90%); 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); WRITERS (50%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



407 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: America's Automotive Fashion Statement;
Forget Sleek and Sexy. The Boxy and Bulky Look Is In.

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
VERY soon, the car in the average family's garage isn't going to be a car at all; it's going to be a truck.
Small trucks -- pick-ups, vans, four-by-fours -- were once a symbol of blue-collar grit, but like pre-washed blue jeans, they are now the upscale dream. A whole new class of small trucks, for which the industry has invented a new term, the "sport-utility vehicle," has sprung up, and they threaten dominance over the car; from Impalas to Pintos, cars now seem like something to be herded away by the Rodeos, Wranglers, Explorers and Blazers. 
 Every decade has its automotive style. The 1950's models had swagger and fins, reflecting the cocksure certainty of the post-war age. In the early 60's, gas was cheap and baby boomers were plentiful, so there were muscle cars. Then came the first oil crisis, in 1973, and environmentally correct compacts with their fuel-efficient engines. Although Cadillacs downsized a little in the 80's, that decade generally returned conspicuous consumption to style with a binge of sleek luxury models.
Maybe the 90's will be easier to characterize in retrospect, but from this end of the decade, the back-to-basics cliche seems to hold, and people seem ready for the bulky and boxy, from the amiable practicality of mini-vans to the rugged four-wheel-drive models, which seem to be an automotive echo of the mountain bike.
Though increasing concern for health and safety may extend to the automotive realm, in truth the trucks may not be any healthier than other vehicles. They do not quite meet the same emission standards as cars nor all of the same crash standards, although their safety features are improving.
Still, these are not the battered, rough-and-tumble vehicles of the Marlboro Man. The term truck, in fact, barely fits, giving rise to Detroit's hyphenated coinage, sport-utility. They are air-conditioned and carpeted; most can be ordered with leather interiors. Dodge Ram pickups, once touted for toughness, are now advertised as being triple-sealed to keep out irritants like wind noise, and are available with a "business console" that includes cellular phone and auxiliary power outlet.
The trucks have shed some of their sluggishness; according to the Environmental Protection Agency, the average 0-60 time last year was 12 seconds, a mere half-second slower than for cars. Some of the vehicles surely get driven off the paved road, but most spend their lives in traffic jams and on urban freeways.
 
The Eddie Bauer Edition
 Many of these vehicles look like something out of an upscale catalogue; the Ford Explorer even comes in an "Eddie Bauer edition." The others could probably be described as the "Walter Mitty" editions, except that the term is perhaps too gender-specific. Women are often the buyers, and for the most expensive models they constitute half of the purchasers. They get what men get, a feeling of mastery over the road. For the commute between high-stress job and hectic home, it may be more mastery than people get at either destination.
Overall, among all the "light duty" vehicles sold in the 1993 model year, more than 34 percent were trucks, including sport-utilities and mini-vans, according to the E.P.A., up from 19 percent in 1975, when the agency started keeping track. Families have not gotten larger, nor have roads gotten less paved; it is almost entirely a matter of taste. The prospect is for more growth. Chrysler found that 3 percent of customers who own trucks plan to replace them with cars while 9 percent of those who own cars plan to replace them with trucks.
"People want to express themselves in a vehicle, they want to make a statement and they want a vehicle to fit their lifestyle," said A.P.G. Richards, the general product manager at Chrysler's Jeep & Truck Business Operations, at a recent conference of the American Society of Automotive Analysts. Drivers want to sit higher up off the road, said John McElroy, editor in chief of Automotive Industries magazine. "It imparts a feeling of security," he said.
It makes the automakers feel secure, too, especially after fruitless years of trying to sell small cars at a profit. According to Adrian T. Dillon, vice president of planning at Eaton Corporation, which manufactures car parts, if sales to rental fleets are factored out, retail sales of cars have been "declining one half percent per year for a very long time." But light truck retail sales are gaining at 5.5 percent per year, he said.
Better yet, only 4 percent of the light trucks are imported and only another 8 percent are built by "transplants," Japanese or European companies assembling vehicles in this country, he said. "Detroit invented this business and retains it," he said.
But there is a disadvantage: fuel. The 1993 cars averaged 28 miles per gallon compared with 20.8 gallons for light utility vehicles. Both figures are just above the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards that Washington mandates. There is another reason for manufacturers to like it when a customer picks, say, a four-by-four over a station wagon: the big wagon would drag down the company's corporate average fuel economy, but the van fits comfortably into the light truck standard. Repeated over and over again, such decisions will have a major effect on fuel consumption. Picking an Explorer over a Taurus wagon, for example, means going to 20 miles per gallon on the highway instead of 28, comparing both vehicles with the largest available engine.
But this is hardly a public policy issue lately. In fact oil imports are of so little general interest that Americans for Energy Independence, a lobbying group that opened its doors shortly after the Arab oil embargo of 1973, closed last month, citing "energy apathy."
At the laboratory in Ann Arbor, Mich., where the E.P.A. calculates fuel economy, Karl H. Hellman, the chief of the technology development branch, said that when the oil crisis hit and Congress imposed fuel economy regulations, "cars did the job." But the saved fuel is gone, he said. "Trucks ate it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1950's: The 1957 Chrysler Imperial Crown convertible was a car inspired by Hollywood; 1960's: The 1965 Chevrolet Corvair typified the compact craze and inadvertently put auto safety on the national agenda; 1970's: The Lincoln Mark V was a conspicuous symbol
of wealth; 1980's: The Cadillac offered scaled-down geometry and glamour; 1990's: The Ford Explorer, on its way to replacing the family station wagon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRIES INC (73%); EDDIE BAUER HOME DIV (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; DESIGN; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; VANS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); TRENDS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); MINIVANS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); EMISSIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (62%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); BABY BOOMERS (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



408 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Treading Gently;
Clinton and Europe Face Their Fears

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: BRUSSELS

 BODY:
HAVE the Western democracies entered a new era of appeasement? The question has been in the air since the war in Bosnia began, and it remained in the air here last week despite all the talk by President Clinton and the other NATO allies about welcoming Eastern Europe and Russia into a new Partnership for Peace.
Since the war against Iraq three years ago, the Western democracies have seemed willing to do anything for the principles they stand for except fight for them. Neither the United States nor any Western European country has been willing to do what it would take to stop the appalling daily atrocities in Bosnia -- to send in combat troops to stop the war, and leave them there as long as it took. Instead, the allies have merely threatened the Serbs with bombs that never dropped. They threatened them again in Brussels last week, and the fighting raged on unabated. 
 In Asia, too, there has been saber-rattling. Last month, the United States and South Korea edged toward a military confrontation with North Korea, seeking a pledge to open seven nuclear sites for international inspection, but then they backed off. Now, it appears, the West may be satisfied if the North Koreans open two sites for a one-time look.
 
A Strategy
 Mr. Clinton would argue that any judgment that he had fudged the fundamental foreign-policy problems, rather than leading the search for a solution, was deeply unfair. He was, after all, elected on pledges to work on domestic problems; abroad, he had focused on matters of trade. Now he must also give direction to an alliance that lost its bearings when the cold war ended.
Last week, journeying to Brussels, Prague, Kiev, Moscow and Minsk, he brought the message that the best hope for keeping Europe from falling back into the abyss of ethnic conflict and nationalist aggression is to integrate the security of both East and West, with strong American backing. "Our security in this generation will be shaped by whether reform in these nations succeeds in the face of their own very significant economic frustration, ethnic tensions, and intolerant nationalism," he told the NATO allies. "If democracy in the East fails, then violence and disruption from the East will once again harm us and other democracies."
The partnership program Mr. Clinton offered is designed to buy time, with commitments that were as noncommittal as possible; the Eastern European democracies that want to join NATO right away were told they will have to wait a few years. In the meantime, both they and the Russians can gradually work more closely with the alliance.
The underlying assumption is a huge strategic gamble, a bet that the success of democracy in Russia is what counts most, and that concessions to wounded national pride there will keep the wounds from becoming malignant. Critics argue that this is simply appeasement, and that the result could be exactly the opposite. At least it is a strategy; NATO does not have one in Bosnia. The threat to bomb the Serbs if they keep strangling Sarajevo and other cities was, as Mr. Clinton himself pointed out, meaningless unless the allies seriously intend to carry it out this time. But despite their effort to sound resolute, the European allies were growing desperate last week. France and Britain are wearying of keeping thousands of troops in the United Nations peacekeeping force, in a land where none of the combatants now wants peace on the terms available.
Thus the renewed threat to bomb (carefully hedged by provisos about United Nations approval). What the allies will do if the Serbs continue to ignore their threats, even they did not really know.
Mr. Clinton's grand strategy has been urged on him by his old friend Strobe Talbott, soon to become Deputy Secretary of State. The plan is to avoid entanglement in immediate problems like the war in Bosnia or Eastern Europe's desire to join the West right away, and concentrate on the Big Picture and the future instead.
Clearly the worst thing that could happen in Europe in coming years would be if what went wrong with Yugoslavia also went wrong with the former Soviet Union. In such a nightmare scenario, if the hardships of transforming the Communist economy to the free market became too much for the Russian electorate, nationalist extremists like Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky could take over, virulent Russian nationalism could turn into war between Russia and Ukraine, and the Red Army could overrun the "near abroad" again.
In Mr. Talbott's view, the best way to try to prevent that is to do nothing to make the Russians feel cornered now. Letting Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary or other Eastern European countries join NATO, in this view -- encouraged not by Mr. Zhirinovsky but by President Boris N. Yeltsin and his Government -- would be seen in Moscow as a threat, despite all the assurances of friendship from the alliance over the past four years.
 
A Plea for Patience
 This is why Mr. Clinton went to Prague to tell Vaclav Havel, Lech Walesa and other Eastern European leaders that they would have to be patient about NATO membership -- but that some day the allies would let them in if they worked toward that goal within the Partnership for Peace.
But there is also a case to be made for letting them in sooner: that the proper response to Russian paranoia is not to make concessions to it at a time when the Russians are weaker than they have been for 75 years, but to deter any thought of aggression by firm support for the Eastern European democracies. Mr. Clinton came closer to doing that when he was in Prague, saying he thought it likely that the allies would defend the Eastern Europeans now if they were attacked. Right now, there is no such danger, and nobody in Moscow is bullying Eastern Europe.
Technically, making concessions to wounded Russian pride in order to discourage a return to bullying cannot be called appeasement. Nor is it technically appeasement to impose a devastating economic embargo on Serbia and talk tough about bombing if aggression does not stop.
But the practical effect of empty threats is the same. One reason the Europeans are so desperate about Bosnia is that they concluded after the American debacle in Somalia last year that, on the ground in the Balkans, they are really on their own. Would Mr. Clinton really send 25,000 troops as NATO peacekeepers in the event of a truce? He said yes last week. But that was easy to say; a settlement was nowhere in sight.
History measures statesmen, as it measured Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill, by results more than promises. William Jefferson Clinton demonstrated last week that he understands the challenges that lie ahead, and has ideas for dealing with them. The ideas may turn out to have been the right ones. Or perhaps they will turn out to be prescriptions for more trouble.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diplomatic meditation: President Clinton at the Jewish cemetery in Prague last week with Richard Schifter, a member of the National Security Council, and a guide. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); BELGIUM (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BELARUS (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); UKRAINE (73%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (58%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (58%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST; RUSSIA; YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; EUROPE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); BELGIUM (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BELARUS (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); UKRAINE (73%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



409 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 2; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: Curbing the Urge to Give;
Where the Beggars Meet the Begged

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER

 BODY:
LAST week, posters appeared in New York City subway cars as part of a campaign to discourage riders from giving to panhandlers: "Uh, oh," thinks the straphanger in the ad. "Come on, not me. Oh pleeeeze don't come and stand in front of me asking for money. . . . Look, I feel bad. I really do. But hey, it's my money. And how do I know what you'll spend it on anyway? I don't. Sorry, no money from me."
As in cities across the country, where a variety of anti-vagrancy laws have recently been passed or enforced with new vigor, New York transit officials are getting tough with subway panhandlers, threatening to jail the most aggressive beggars and asking riders, whose complaints provoked the crackdown, to do their part by refusing to hand over spare change. 
 The plan was quickly denounced by some advocates for the homeless, who said it was mid-winter meanness encouraged by the city's new Republican administration. But academics who study urban problems said the new policies have less to do with a backlash against the homeless than with a communal survival instinct driving residents to reclaim public space in parks, plazas, subways and train stations.
Across the country, "there's real concern that public spaces have essentially been taken over by homeless vagrants and are no longer accessible to other people," said Larry Ledebur, director of the Center for Urban Studies at Wayne State University in Detroit.
But some of the most draconian measures are being taken in cities that have been the most tolerant. Seattle's all-Democrat City Council recently made it illegal to sit down on public sidewalks in the business district during working hours. And San Francisco police have begun arresting homeless people for sleeping on public property, blocking sidewalks or urinating in public.
New Yorkers traditionally got "a kind of perverse pleasure from their reputation as people who could withstand anything," said George L. Kelling, a professor of criminal justice who teaches at Northwestern and Harvard universities. "But now you've seen in liberal bastions like New York and San Francisco, where things went the farthest, now they're leading in saying we've got to get back some reasonable right to be left alone."
Mr. Kelling said there is little subway panhandling in Boston because "the city has always had more emphasis on public decorum." And in Washington, which passed an ordinance against aggressive panhandling last summer, there has never been much begging in subways because until recently few stations were located in low-income areas. "The D.C. system was gerrymandered and wrong," he said, "but more democratic systems mean you ultimately need more rules and regulations."
Over time, frequent run-ins with aggressive panhandlers have made residents of many cities feel neighborhood life is threatened. "Big cities only function successfully where people meet in parks and on the streets in neighborhoods," said James Q. Wilson, a professor of management and public policy at U.C.L.A. "When you have public spaces taken over, you can't have an urban village, and when we retreat behind gates and doors we are cut off from any kind of communal life."
Homeless advocates who do support the tougher policies say public attitudes about the causes of homelessness have changed. And they say the new policies are not the end of compassion, but of credulity.
In the 1980's, when the homeless problem first received widespread attention, many homeless advocates and reporters tended to spotlight those people who had lost their jobs or been evicted, fearing perhaps that the public would be less sympathetic to the large number of homeless people who suffer from alcoholism, drug addiction or mental illness. The prevailing wisdom then held that we were all "just a paycheck away" from winding up on the street.
"We spent the better part of a decade pretending this was primarily a housing problem," said Fred Siegel, a professor of history at Cooper Union. Homeless advocates, he said, were much too slow to admit that most chronically homeless people had other serious problems so homelessness was considered a purely economic problem and the public health crisis was largely ignored.
Ultimately, daily contact with homeless people in clear need of alcohol or drug treatment and mental health services left many residents feeling misled about the nature of the problem. Hustles from scam artists convinced them that many of the most threatening panhandlers were not in fact homeless. And the growing recovery movement and its 12-step programs made some residents feel that giving money to those who suffer from an addiction is only "enabling" their illness.
Decisions about if and when to give money to beggars are morally complicated, and no drug treatment expert claims that addicts who panhandle for drug money will necessarily decide to seek treatment just because the donations dry up. But over the last several years, most homeless advocates have changed their emphasis somewhat, conceding that access to affordable housing will not, by itself, solve problems of the many homeless people who also need drug and mental health treatment and a host of other social services.
Some of those who provide services for the homeless say they fear that the growing perception that spare change does more harm than good will become an excuse for inaction. "It allows people a philosophical justification for doing nothing about the problem," said Joan Alker, assistant director for the National Coalition for the Homeless in Washington.
But other homeless advocates have expressed support for programs like the New York subway crackdown, which includes a provision for more services to homeless people. "Our feeling is that people who give money to panhandlers are perpetuating people living on the street," said Richard Salyer, president of the Greater New York chapter of the Volunteers of America, which runs three homeless shelters in New York. "The reaction of communities to reclaim public spaces is legitimate" and perhaps inevitable, he said, "as long as that's not the end of the story. These people are sick and in pain and they still need somewhere to go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Panhandlers, already banned -- ineffectually -- from New York City subways, may go elsewhere after transit officials' threats to jail aggressive beggars. (Eugene Richards/Magnum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DC SYSTEMS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BEGGARS; SUBWAYS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PANHANDLING (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ORDINANCES (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIBERALISM (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



410 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-15
 
CHINA PLEDGES RIGHTS EFFORT
China's President told an American Congressional delegation that he will make an effort in the coming months to satisfy President Clinton's concerns about human rights. 1
 
CLINTON MOVES TO NEXT ISSUE
President Clinton shifted his focus from Russia to the Middle East as he flew to Geneva. He stopped in Belarus, where he became embroiled in a local dispute. 1 

Hopes are high for President Clinton's talks with Syria's leader. 10
 
TOUGH MESSAGE FOR RUSSIA
News analysis: President Clinton's message was that American aid cannot make a difference unless Russia has an effective plan to curb inflation and institute a free market. 1
 
MIXED REACTION TO TALKS
As President Clinton left Russia, those who expected major results and big announcements were disappointed but those who expected little said they liked him. 10
 
EMIGRES SHAPE CROATIA POLICY
A group of wealthy emigres have helped shape Croatian policy in the post-Communist period, and that includes the aggressive stance with regard to Bosnian territory. 14
 
An air base in Italy is standing by, ready for Bosnia air strikes. 14
 
JAPAN TRADE PACT BOGGED DOWN
News analysis: Despite optimism about a new approach when the United States and Japan reached a trade agreement in July, it has become bogged down in discussions about the details. 3
 
Veterans will be reassured over plans on the Vietnam embargo. 8
 
A grave that may hold 20 bodies has been found in southern Mexico. 7
 
Haiti's exiled leader criticized diplomatic pressure on him. 6
 
Zaire sought American aid for elections to end political turmoil. 11
 
The service systems Palestinians will inherit are a shambles. 12
 
Catholics and Protestants seek an end to job bias in Ulster. 13
 
A new law is helping Canadian strikers. 15
 
National 16-22
 
MAKING THE CASE FOR CHASTITY
In programs that emphasize abstinence rather than contraception, a growing number of teen-agers around the country are learning the rewards of postponing sex. 1
 
A HOLIDAY, BUT NOT FOR ALL
Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday is still struggling for acceptance: widely observed by governments, mostly ignored by businesses and in danger of being viewed as a black holiday rather than a national one. 1
 
A RUSH TO BUY GUNS
Business at gun stores around the country is brisk as people react to the possibility of tougher gun controls and a growing American fascination with guns. 16
 
NEW GOVERNOR FOR VIRGINIA
George Felix Allen, a conservative Republican with a folksy image, promised to reduce taxes and spending as he was inaugurated Virginia's 67th Governor. 16
 
A DISPUTE OVER THE EVERGLADES
The Administration and Florida are increasing pressure on the state's sugar growers to clean up farm water runoff and restore the Everglades. 18
 
WHITE HOUSE SPIN FIASCO
Even by its own accounting, the White House's handling of questions about President Clinton's Arkansas real estate dealings has been a near fiasco. 20
 
ASPIN MAY SERVE ON COMMISSION
Defense Secretary Les Aspin said that after he departs he would like to serve on a Pentagon commission studying ways to reduce duplicated missions in the armed forces. 20
 
NEW GAMMA-RAY PUZZLES
A new analysis of mysterious gamma-ray explosions in space lends fresh evidence to a time effect predicted by Einstein's theory of relativity. 21
 
AMERICA VIA TOWN MEETING
The Clinton Administration plans to finance several nationally televised New England-style "town meetings" to explore the bonds that hold American society together. 22
 
Metro 23-30
 
NEW AGENDA IN NEW JERSEY
For Christine Todd Whitman, the hard part is about to begin. To cut taxes, as she promised, she will have to pour money out of a budget bag that already has a huge hole in the bottom. 1
 
MOSQUE 'MISUNDERSTANDINGS'
A day after his Police Commissioner met with Muslim officials to discuss a brawl with police officers at a Harlem mosque, Mayor Giuliani sought yesterday to put the incident behind him, saying that he believed "misunderstandings" had been resolved. 23
 
CRACKDOWN ON SUBWAY BEGGING
Transit police officers have said a crackdown on subway panhandling might not be so futile as many people assume. The officers estimate that only about 50 panhandlers work the trains regularly. 23
 
INTO THE WILD BLUE YONDER
Aviation High School in Long Island City, Queens, expects that more than 60 percent of its graduates will go to college, often on scholarships and with advanced standing. These successes, unusual at any high school, are particularly impressive for a vocational school serving an industry afflicted by a severe slump. 23
 
Neediest Cases 30
 
Obituaries 32
 
Harry Nilsson, singer and a composer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BELARUS (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); HAITI (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BELARUS (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); HAITI (79%); SYRIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); GUN CONTROL (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STRIKES (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); GOVERNORS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); ADOLESCENTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (63%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); SUGAR FARMING (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



411 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: As Whitman Nears Inauguration, Deficit Complicates Tax-Cut Vow

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 15

 BODY:
For Christine Todd Whitman, the hard part is about to begin.
When she becomes New Jersey's 50th governor on Tuesday, Mrs. Whitman will sit down at a desk figuratively piled with daunting tasks: A school financing quandary that has defied solution for decades. A surging prison population. Cities cut off from the rest of the state, and full of despair. 
 But at the center of her agenda, and overshadowing all others, is the challenge that Mrs. Whitman pledged herself to meet in her Republican campaign for governor, and that helped bring her a narrow victory over Jim Florio, the Democratic incumbent: to cut income taxes by 10 percent a year for three years, or by $1.4 billion at the end of that period.
 
$1 Billion Deficit Built In
 To do so, Mrs. Whitman will have to pour money out of a bag that already has a hole in the bottom. Next year's budget, which begins on July 1, has a built-in deficit totaling at least $1 billion, and revenues for the current year are running behind budgeted forecasts. During her four-year term, the new Governor will also have to deal with a tripling of debt interest payments because of bonds issued under the Florio administration; the costs of complying with the Federal Clean Air Act, and the likelihood of court-ordered increases in state aid to poor school districts.
Yet Mrs. Whitman is undismayed. She has never lost an opportunity to repeat her promise and has gone on to say she will not resort to employee layoffs, will not raise other state taxes to compensate for those that are cut, and will not require local governments to make up her cuts. But she has given no specifics on how she will do this.
Mrs. Whitman, 47, the state's first female Governor and one of four female Governors in the nation, will attempt this feat on a national as well as a local stage. Her come-from-behind victory over Mr. Florio has had a transmuting effect on the way taxes are being viewed in the 36 other governors' races this year.
When Mr. Florio seemed headed for re-election, Democrats from the Clinton White House to the local level were ready to claim a vindication for bold executives who raise taxes, since the $2.8 billion in taxes Mr. Florio increased his first year was almost the only weapon Mrs. Whitman used against him in the campaign.
"Now the message of Whitman's election is exactly the opposite," said William Schneider, an analyst of election politics at the American Enterprise Institute. "The message is, taxes are still poison, and everybody is getting the message. Cuomo certainly got it, Wilson got it in California, and so is everyone else."
Ten days ago, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, a Democrat, struck a perennial Republican theme, a call for cuts in business taxes, in his State of the State address. On the same day in Sacramento, Gov. Pete Wilson of California, a Republican, proposed state income-tax cuts that nearly match Mrs. Whitman's. Both are running for re-election this year.
Since her victory, Mrs. Whitman has traveled the state and answered questions on five radio and television appearances with unfailing good cheer, flashing a warm smile and radiating good humor. Governor Florio never became "Jim" to the people of New Jersey, but Mrs. Whitman is "Christie."
 
Testing Her Good Cheer
 Mrs. Whitman's cheer will be tested in problems like these:
*By the end of April, the state must either remove some 3,000 state convicts who are housed in county jails or pay the counties more than the current rate of $58 a day per prisoner, a state court has ordered. But the state prisons are already overcrowded by a third, and it would take $300 million in new prison construction over the next four or five years to keep adding cells at the current rate.
*The Federal Clean Air Act will take effect in 1996, and by then the state needs to have in place $100 million to $200 million in new testing equipment while introducing New Jersey's prickly motorists to a longer and more complicated annual inspection. Moreover, the act will in all likelihood result in shutting thousands of private auto inspection stations, which many drivers find more convenient than the clogged state inspection sites.
*The fuel tax that finances the state's road-building Transportation Tax Trust Fund expires in June 1995 and will require renewal plus about 5 cents a gallon more, on top of the current 11.5 cents a gallon, to meet the state's construction obligations.
Overshadowing all these problems, however, is the question of school financing, a decades-old issue that is a compound of several politically toxic elements, including questions of race and class, taxes and New Jersey's rigid suburban territoriality.
 
School Ruling Is Near
 The State Supreme Court is expected to rule this spring in the third challenge by urban school districts to the way Trenton divides its school aid. A Superior Court judge, Paul G. Levy, has already agreed to the plaintiffs' claim that $450 million more in state aid to city schools is needed to close the school spending gap between the cities and the suburbs.
Mr. Florio tried to shift about $300 million more to urban schools, but was blocked by the Legislature, which redirected the money to offset school property taxes statewide.
At the same time, the state teachers' union, the New Jersey Education Association, has served notice to Mrs. Whitman that it will not tolerate education cost-cutting moves like the ones that Mr. Florio tried, like shifting the costs of local school district pensions to the districts themselves.
That move was blocked by the Legislature's Republican majority, with teachers' union backing, and Florio administration members are convinced that the union, by showing itself ready to work for either party, was ultimately responsible for the loss of the Legislature in 1991 and Mr. Florio's defeat last year.
 
Teachers 1, Florio 0
 "The lesson of the Florio years," a Florio Cabinet member said on condition of anonymity, "is that they took on the teachers, and they lost."
Mrs. Whitman and her transition team have been pondering these numbers and lessons for nearly two months. She is to present her spending plan to the Legislature on March 15, but has so far shared only fragments of her thinking.
She is critical of the practice that allows state agencies to keep the fines and fees that they collect, instead of turning this revenue over to the Treasury's General Fund.
Several agencies derive most of their income from these sources: the Department of State receives $600,000 in tax support, but it takes in, and keeps, $18 million annually from such sources as incorporation fees and business licenses.
 
State Workers May Object
 The department's unionized work forces may object to Mrs. Whitman's idea of making each department justify its entire budget, instead of just a part of it, each year.
Mrs. Whitman has also said she can save some $150 million by turning some state duties over to private contractors and by ending double insurance coverage for spouses who both work for the state.
Mrs. Whitman may also be lucky. On Thursday Mr. Florio's Treasury announced that an end-of-year audit discovered an unexpected $288 million surplus, an amount that may help cover a projected shortfall for the 1994 fiscal year. In addition, a stronger economic recovery would raise sales and income-tax receipts.
In the absence of clear directions from Mrs. Whitman, Republican lawmakers have remained loyal to her tax-cut pledge while leaving themselves some room to maneuver on its timing and other details.
 
Allies Try to Soften Pledge
 On Tuesday, for example, Donald T. DiFrancesco, the Senate President, bluntly suggested that the tax cut be deferred until next January, instead of beginning with the new budget year on July 1, as Mrs. Whitman continues to promise. Mrs. Whitman ignored his suggestion. Yet the idea of a delay has already become an article of faith with many.
"There's always a sense of immediacy in the public mind that something like this is going to be done overnight, and some people were even talking about making the tax cut retroactive to January of this year," said Rodney P. Frelinghuysen of Harding Township, who leads the Assembly Appropriations Committee.
"But the logistics of implementing a tax cut in the middle of the tax year are very complicated, and we will have to look at the Senate President's ideas on that."
One clear reason for Republican caution lies in the odd symmetry that promises to lie in the first months of the Florio and Whitman administrations. Like Mr. Florio, Mrs. Whitman is meeting a Legislature controlled by her own party, with a plan to remake state government, his to greatly expand its obligations, hers to cut taxes and costs.
Before Mr. Florio's effort cost him his job, it ended the careers of numerous seasoned Democrats in the Legislature in 1992, when the Republicans, in full cry against the tax increases, seized a veto-proof majority of both houses. Some Republicans are concerned that if Mrs. Whitman's cuts provoke a union or voter protest, the same thing could happen to them.
"It's the same scenario, but from opposite poles," said Senator Richard J. LaRossa, a Republican from Trenton who was first elected in the anti-Florio wave. "The only way it's going to happen again is if we act like a bull in a china shop. It has to be done surgically, not with a meat ax."
Mr. LaRossa, who represents many state workers, has already staked out his minimums: No layoffs and go slow on privatization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAXES; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LAYOFFS (LABOR); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (65%); PRISONS (57%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



412 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: CHINA PROMISES U.S. TO TRY TO IMPROVE ITS HUMAN RIGHTS

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 15

 BODY:
President Jiang Zemin today told a Congressional delegation led by the House majority leader that China "is going to make an effort" in coming months to meet President Clinton's concerns about the country's human rights record.
Mr. Jiang repeated Beijing's objection to linking human rights with China's trade relationship with the United States, as Mr. Clinton has done by making China's favorable trade status contingent on improvement in human rights. But the delegation took the Chinese President's positive tone as an encouraging sign. 
 Mr. Jiang's remarks to the majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, and five other House members came at a crucial time, just before the release of a State Department human rights report that is critical of China and could affect its trade status as a most favored nation. His remarks also came in the middle of important talks with Washington on China's textile imports.
 
An Unusual Response
 Although Mr. Jiang did not present any detailed course for improving China's human rights record, his remarks were significant in that Chinese officials almost never respond directly or positively to any admonition from foreigners about their human rights record. In public statements, Chinese officials uniformly reject American intercessions on human rights as interference in China's internal affairs.
In Washington, a State Department official said today that Mr. Jiang's comments, as reported by the delegation , were "very, very encouraging."
The official said that several recent developments suggested that China understood Western concern about its human rights practices. But he said the United States was looking for more evidence.
 
'Let's See What Happens'
 "Today's meeting was quite positive and encouraging, but let's see what happens," the official said.
At a news conference, Mr. Gephardt praised the extensive diplomatic engagement that is under way with China and said he hoped that it would lead to a resolution of disputes.
"We are hoping for progress on human rights," Mr. Gephardt said. "To date there has not been sufficient progress, but we are not at the end of the process. We have another six months to go."
 
Chinese Seriousness Seen
 After the news conference, Mr. Gephardt said the most positive aspect of his visit was that he felt for the first time that the Chinese leadership was "really serious" about resolving its most contentious issues with the United States, beginning with human rights.
"We have a number of important differences," Mr. Gephardt said, "but we are working hard to resolve those differences."
The delegation members, who said they were in Beijing at Mr. Clinton's request, also met with China's economic czar, Zhu Rongji.
The visit is part of the torrent of diplomatic contacts between Washington and Beijing aimed at averting a confrontation later in the year over China's poor human rights record.
China has until June to demonstrate "overall, significant progress" in human rights or Mr. Clinton has threatened to end China's most-favored nation access to the American market, which entitles Chinese companies to export their goods to the United States at very low tariffs.
Human rights abuses also played a major role in the rejection of China's bid to be the host of the Olympic Games in the year 2000, despite a vigorous campaign by Beijing.
In case the Chinese did not get the message from Mr. Gephardt, the White House is sending Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen here this week.
 
Bush on Private Visit
 The sometimes blunt exchanges with Mr. Clinton's emissaries were overshadowed in the Chinese press by coverage of former President George Bush's private visit to Beijing.
"I think the U.S.-Chinese relationship is very, very important," Mr. Bush told the Chinese President. "It's very important to stay on track."
Officials at the United States Embassy said they were unaware of any coordination between Mr. Bush and the White House over his visit, though former Presidents as a matter of courtesy often carry messages and report on the results of their trips.
American officials said that before leaving the United States, Mr. Bush was briefed by the State Department and the staff of the National Security Council, but that he is carrying no official messages.
Mr. Bush also met with the Chinese Prime Minister, Li Peng, whom most American officials avoid because of his role in ordering the military crackdown that led to the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989.
Mr. Clinton issued his conditions for continued favored trade status in a May 1993 executive order, and Mr. Gephardt's visit to China is part of the "midterm" review of its progress on human rights.
In deciding whether to extend China's trade privileges, American officials said they would use criteria specified in Mr. Clinton's executive order. At a minimum, there must be greater freedom of emigration and less use of prison labor. In addition, the Administration will consider whether China has made progress on other human rights issues, including respect for the religious and cultural heritage of Tibet.
A member of Mr. Gephardt's delegation, Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington, and the American Ambassador, J. Stapleton Roy, both described Mr. Jiang's statement to the delegation.
Mr. Roy said the Chinese leader's remarks were consistent with other recent positive responses senior Chinese officials have been making to American officials regarding the human rights abuses that routinely occur at the hands of China's security services and the judicial and prison authorities.
 
Talks With Red Cross
 Chinese officials also told the Congressional delegation today that China would begin detailed discussions this weekend with the International Committee of the Red Cross on a program that could allow the first Red Cross visits to Chinese political prisoners in the history of Communist rule.
Western diplomats here said the release this week of two Tibetan human rights campaigners was also an important development indicating that the Chinese leadership is taking some early steps on Tibet, where larger issues of autonomy and freedom of expression are proving very difficult to solve.
American officials saw the release as a good-will gesture coming before Secretary of State Warren Christopher meets with China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, in Paris on Jan. 24 and 25, but some human rights groups cast it as a move timed to coincide with the State Department's annual human rights report. A draft of the report, which is to be released in the coming week, states that China has not made substantial progress on human rights.
The remarks also coincide with last-minute talks to prevent a trade war over a threat by Washington to cut Beijing's textile export quota by 25 to 35 percent. China has said it will strike back if the United States proceeds with the plan.
Besides Mr. Dicks, the House members accompanying Mr. Gephardt here are George Miller of California, Mike Synar of Oklahoma, Chet Edwards of Texas and Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, all Democrats.
 
'Mixed Message' Possible
 Mr. Gephardt acknowledged that some members of Congress are opposed to canceling China's trade privileges at a time when American companies are seeking new markets in China's booming economy, and he said the Chinese leadership might be receiving a mixed message from Washington.
"Anyone who observes the United States for any period of time will always be able to get a mixed message," Mr. Gephardt said, but he added that "it would be a grave mistake for anyone to think" that China's trade privileges "could not be stopped."
The delegation also delivered a list of 19 political prisoners who are reported suffering from medical problems and asked that they be released on parole.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CONGRESSIONAL TOURS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TEXTILES (53%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



413 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IN EUROPE;
Good Works And Prayers

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MUSCAT, Oman, Jan. 15

 BODY:
At the meeting of the American Chamber of Commerce in Moscow last week, the American business executives had a Protestant minister open their luncheon by delivering a prayer for the Russian economy. "Dear God," he intoned, "we pray for this land. For wise decisions. Do not let us lose hope."
It was a fitting way to begin their session and a fitting summary of American economic diplomacy toward Russia today, which relies almost as much on prayer as on policy.
It is not that there is no substance behind the American approach to Russia today. There is. And it is not that there is no money behind it, either. It is that no more money will be delivered, or make a substantive difference, unless President Boris N. Yeltsin puts together a viable, concrete plan to restructure his budget in a way that will curb inflation, end subsidies to unprofitable state industries and create a body of laws to support a free market.
 
Bear Hugs and Vodka
 That was President Clinton's message to the Russian leader this week. It was sugarcoated in a number of ways, with many bear hugs and vodka toasts, but underneath there was always the same theme: "More money for Russia, more quickly, but only after more reform." 
 That is where prayer comes into play. American officials left Moscow after the summit meeting feeling that Mr. Yeltsin's Government was at a "critical phase," as Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen put it.
"I am convinced there is a strong desire by Yeltsin to follow through, but I think he will have to do a substantial amount of bargaining and trading with the Parliament," Mr. Bentsen said as he flew from Moscow to Indonesia today with a stop in Oman. "It is going to be a tough transition. It is going to be a combative Parliament."
American officials said they were reassured that on the question of economic changes, Mr. Yeltsin's heart was still in the right place. The Russian leader uttered a strong "nyet" when asked whether he intended to abandon some of his tough economic measures in view of his supporters' poor showing in recent parliamentary elections.
 
Reformers' Role Uncertain
 The fact that Mr. Yeltsin just reappointed Deputy Prime Minister Anatoly B. Chubais, the powerhouse behind his privatization program, put some muscle into that "nyet."
But the role of other reformers in the new Cabinet is still uncertain. And what no one in the American delegation can be sure of is whether Mr. Yeltsin will carry through on his promises once Mr. Clinton is out of sight. Even if Mr. Yeltsin wants to, will conservatives in the fractious, newly elected Russian Parliament let him do so?
A reformist lawmaker, Grigory A. Yavlinsky, said such uncertainty was why the West should hold off pouring more money into Russia until it is clear that there is "an appropriate government, an appropriate program and an appropriate will."
The Americans needed no convincing. Indeed, Russian-American economic relations have entered a new phase with the summit meeting. The initial phase, which involved enlisting donations from the West and international lending institutions in return for the early tentative steps of Russian reform, is over.
It brought some $28 billion in promises of export credits, technical assistance, privatization grants and loans, of which only $5 billion was delivered. It also produced some results on the ground: inflation in Russia came down in the last year from 1,000 percent to about 260 percent, the dollar value of Russian wages tripled and virtually all state-owned small businesses were put into private hands.
But for these achievements to be sustained -- and for the rest of the $28 billion promised to be delivered -- Russia has to enter a second phase. It requires that Mr. Yeltsin put together a more comprehensive reform program, including a body of contract law to regulate a capitalist economy and a radically different budget that can deliver long-term relief from high inflation, so Russians will want to save rubles and Russian businesses now exporting will be ready to bring their profits home.
Russia's basic problem today is that the Government is running a budget deficit of about 9 percent of its gross national product. Because the Russian Government cannot finance that deficit with Treasury bills -- no one here would buy them -- and it can only raise a limited amount in new taxes, it is covering its deficit largely by printing new rubles, thereby stoking inflation.
 
Subsidized Industries
 The only way for the Government to avoid printing so many rubles is to halt its subsidies to major industries like coal mines, state farms and military factories. The problem Mr. Yeltsin faces is that these state-subsidized factories not only provide work for millions of Russians but, more important, provide social services ranging from health care to pensions to cheap groceries.
When Mr. Bentsen visited a chocolate factory in Moscow, he found a shoemaker working in the middle of the plant. The factory manager said the cobbler was there to make and repair his workers' shoes while they made chocolates, saving them time and money.
Mr. Yeltsin is reluctant to cut the subsidies for fear that too many people will be deprived, not of products they want to buy, but of social services they desperately need. What the Americans told him was that subsidizing an inefficient tractor factory was a terrible way to provide social services, since the tractors are so bad that Russia could get more money selling the raw steel that goes into them on the world market than it can for the finished tractors.
What the Americans want the Russians to do instead is stop the subsidies, and use part of the savings to reduce the deficit and part to cushion the workers who would be unemployed by assuring them pensions, unemployment insurance and relocation and retraining programs. That is what American officials mean by "economic reform." But what those two words mean in real life, the Moscow Tribune said, is that "the only effective solution will be to allow at least half the economy to go bankrupt."
Can Mr. Yeltsin sustain the politics of such a move? So far, he does not even have a budget for the first quarter of this year.
The new Parliament is preoccupied with infighting, and the Speaker of the lower house, Ivan P. Rybkin, has warned Mr. Yeltsin that when it comes to the economy there must be no more "shocks" -- meaning no bankrupt factories -- a view echoed by Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin.
President Clinton left Moscow today clearly feeling that he had charted a path for Mr. Yeltsin, but that the rest was now in the hands of the gods and the Russian Parliament. As Mr. Clinton put it: "These folks are just getting started on what will be a great and exciting journey. And I think we ought to wish them well and see what happens."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); OMAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); OMAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TRENDS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PRIVATIZATION (68%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



414 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Trade Pact: Dotting the I's Proves Difficult

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 15

 BODY:
When President Clinton concluded his last-minute trade deal with Japan here last July, his Administration hailed it as not just another in a 20-year string of agreements but a new kind of agreement.
The American negotiators, just a few months in office, insisted that they had found the key to reducing Japan's yawning surpluses in forcing the Government to promise explicit increases in imports and not just the removal of barriers. 
 "What you have is something that goes far, far further toward explicitness and clarity and deadlines and schedules than anything you have ever seen before," exulted W. Bowman Cutter, deputy director of the National Economic Council and the chief negotiator.
And when Morihiro Hosokawa, a young politician preaching change, became Prime Minister in August, the Clinton Administration grew even more confident that the old pattern of bitter disputes and meager results was a thing of the past. It was just a matter of hammering out the details with a like-minded Government, the Administration seemed to say.
 
Talks Going Nowhere, U.S. Says
 Such buoyant expectations made the spectacle to which the Japanese were treated this week that much more telling. Sounding both angry and befuddled, senior Administration officials complained here that the follow-up talks to the basic agreement were going nowhere, even as Japan's surplus with the United States was rising. It was more than $50 billion in 1993.
Discussions about getting Japan to buy more American automobiles, auto parts, medical and telecommunications equipment and insurance policies "haven't moved an inch," said Jeffrey E. Garten, Undersecretary of Commerce for International Trade.
It has been a harsh lesson in the tenacity of Japan's bureaucracy, which manages the negotiations. It also points to the fundamental differences between the two economies, a gulf that warm feelings between two young leaders cannot paper over.
President Clinton is to meet Mr. Hosokawa on Feb. 11 in Washington to sign the next phase of their trade deal. But the American negotiators say the two sides remain so far apart that they are still battling over the concepts rather than the details.
 
Following Old Pattern
 Perhaps their most painful admission was that despite the new "framework," the negotiations are following the old pattern of struggling down to the wire and concluding an ambiguous truce. Even the efforts by the American officials to apply pressure on the Japanese by going public with their grievances follow the old style.
"We had thought this framework was different in several ways," lamented Joan E. Spero, Undersecretary of State for Economic and Agricultural Affairs. "We really saw this Government as moving toward the same kinds of goals as we were. We feel disappointed. We are back to the old formula."
Of the continuing debate over what methods to use to attack Japan's surpluses, Mr. Garten commented: "We've been having a sterile, metaphysical debate. We want results."
The Administration describes its approach as results-oriented rather than focused purely on opening markets and letting the chips fall.
The Japanese agreed that future trade agreements would use "objective criteria" like measurements of market share or import levels to guarantee that, one way or another, more American goods would be purchased and the surpluses would decline. At least, that is the American interpretation.
 
Another Point of Frustration
 What the negotiators have discovered is that the "results-oriented" approach represents just one point on a continuum of trade frustration, no matter how much rapport President Clinton felt the two leaders shared.
In their more candid moments, negotiators from both sides concede that some kind of agreement is still likely to be produced come Feb. 11, but they also agree that an accord is likely to retain much of the ambiguity that President Clinton had vowed was a thing of the past.
At the core of the dispute is what American officials had regarded as the major innovation -- the agreement to set explicit goals for Japanese imports of various American products and services. The basic agreement refers to "objective criteria" to measure progress. It also commits Japan to take measures to bring about a "highly significant" reduction of its trade surplus "over the medium term."
Even while the Americans were crowing about these inclusions last July, the Japanese were making it clear that, in their reading, they had certainly not agreed to set targets for future purchases of American-made goods. That approach has been rejected by the Japanese as a brutish attempt to interfere in the workings of the marketplace.
"Our understanding is that that understanding is not included" in the framework, said Sozaburo Okamatsu, the Deputy Minister for International Trade and Industry. He explained that the only "objective criteria" Japan would permit would be evaluations of past data to determine whether progress has been made, not to set goals for importing American goods.
 
Kantor Blames Bureaucracy
 The United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, wrote a letter last month to a Japanese newspaper in which he sought to blame the bureaucracy for the stalemate, thereby deflecting attention from Mr. Hosokawa.
But that seems like wishful thinking. Mr. Hosokawa was reported in recent days to have told the heads of the country's most influential business lobbying groups that he would not budge on the question of import targets.
The American side has responded by banning the word target from its vocabulary, arguing that its position is being distorted by the Japanese.
The Japanese bureaucracy has gone further, though, arguing that Japan's economy is more open than that of the United States and that it is Washington that must open up.
In a paper issued last week, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry created a sort of parallel universe, suggesting that the low market share for imported goods and the minuscule level of direct business investment by foreign companies in Japan were signs of how well the free market is operating here.
Claiming the moral high ground, the Japanese Government has seized on Washington's insistence on setting import goals to declare that Japan is resisting not American imports but an attempt to thwart the free market.
Such intransigence is standard in important negotiations, especially when billions of dollars in sales and perhaps even jobs are at stake.
In fact, that is how President Clinton himself has characterized the new world order. Whether or not he has persuaded other Americans of this, his trade negotiators have learned that the Japanese Government never lost sight of that reality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



415 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IN EUROPE;
Clinton Promises Help for Belarus Before Changing Focus to Mideast

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Switching his focus from Russia to the Middle East, President Clinton flew from Moscow to Geneva today for meetings on Sunday with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria aimed at getting the stalled Mideast peace talks started again.
On his way to Geneva, Mr. Clinton stopped in Belarus, where he pledged at least $50 million in additional aid, including $25 million to help the Government carry out its pledge to surrender all 81 of the old Soviet SS-25 nuclear missiles left on its soil. 
 During his six-hour stopover in Minsk, Mr. Clinton also became embroiled in a local dispute over which victims of oppression to honor first.
On his arrival in Geneva, Mr. Clinton was met by President Otto Stich and Foreign Minister Flavio Cotti. He is to meet with President Assad for three hours on Sunday before flying home to Washington at the end of his eight-day visit .
 
On Diplomatic Tiptoe
 Administration officials expressed hope that the prospect of better relations with Washington might prompt Mr. Assad to seek a comprehensive peace with Israel. The Syrians, who have faced economic hardships since the collapse of the Soviet Union, hope to build a new relationship with the United States.
But the officials said President Clinton is not ready to remove Syria from his Administration's list of terrorist states, a designation that carries heavy sanctions, as Mr. Assad has demanded.
Mr. Assad will be seeking to restore Syria's position as a key player in any Middle East peace negotiations. His position has been eclipsed by the separate Israeli accord with the Palestine Liberation Organization, which was signed in Washington on Sept. 13.
En route to Geneva, the White House faced a diplomatic squabble over Mr. Clinton's plans to visit a memorial for the victims of Stalinist oppression in Belarus before laying a wreath at a monument to those killed by the Nazis.
The original White House itinerary for Belarus called for Mr. Clinton to go straight from Air Force One to a stark memorial in Kuropaty forest, just outside Minsk, that was raised to victims of Stalinist repression.
But in deference to the leaders of Belarus, most of them former Communists, the White House agreed to postpone Mr. Clinton's stop at the Kuropaty memorial and first lay a wreath at the black obelisk in Victory Square in Minsk that honors victims of World War II, as Prime Minister Vyacheslav F. Kebich had insisted.
The last-minute change was viewed with dismay by Belarus's political opposition. The switch also exposed White House uneasiness about possibly offending the Soviet-style Government, which Mr. Clinton was prodding to hold elections this spring.
 
No Signs of Modernization
 Despite Mr. Clinton's support, there is no indication that Belarus will accept Washington's advice to go forward with economic reform. The nation's leading reformer, Stanislav S. Shushkevich, chairman of the Supreme Soviet, holds less power than Mr. Kebish, the old-line Prime Minister.
The importance of Kuropaty to domestic politics lies in the fact that it is the country's only known mass grave for those executed by Stalin's secret police between 1937 and 1941, giving it symbolic importance for the anti-Communist opposition, whose leader, Zyanon Paznyak, was the archaeologist who discovered it.
As many as 200,000 bodies of Poles, Jews and other victims of Stalin are believed to be buried at the site, and a senior Western diplomat in Belarus bluntly described it as "unfortunate" that the White House had backed away from its original plan.
"What is needed here is for the West to remind everyone about the Communists' past," the diplomat said.
The Administration had initially added Belarus to Mr. Clinton's itinerary partly as a gesture of thanks for its decision to relinquish its nuclear weapons, but more importantly as an object lesson for Ukraine, which until Mr. Clinton's visit had refused to do so.
 
An Unnecessary Symbol
 But Ukraine's about-face last week, under which it will surrender its 176 nuclear missiles and 1,500 warheads over the next seven years, stripped the Belarus stop of its symbolism, leaving Mr. Clinton confronted more starkly with a system that has seen few changes from the old Soviet style.
In Minsk this afternoon, senior White House officials sought to minimize the significance of the decision to reschedule the visit to Kuropaty, an ice-covered clearing with a crude wooden cross crowned with barbed wire.
In a speech this afternoon at the Academy of Sciences in Minsk, Mr. Clinton tried to keep the focus on the arms agreement, telling the audience that Belarus deserved the "thanks and credit of citizens all over the world" for being the first former Soviet republic to plan a nuclear-free future.
But he made a clear reference to the Government's refusal to assure March elections, saying he would "hope and pray" that they would go forward. He also called upon Belarus to "press ahead" with economic reforms.
 
Separate Meetings
 Mr. Clinton was greeted at the Minsk airport by Mr. Shushkevich, a former nuclear physicist turned centrist democrat whose position makes him the leader of Parliament, and whom American officals regard as the country's best hope of reform.
The President also held what the officials described as cooler talks with Mr. Kebich, who rose through Communist Party ranks and who has headed the Government since 1990. Mr. Clinton met separately with the opposition leaders, among them Mr. Paznyak, who told reporters later that they had urged Mr. Clinton to cut off aid to Belarus altogether on the ground that it would support only the Government and not reform.
But there was also evidence of the resentment felt by some Belarusians at Mr. Clinton's visit: a group of Communists marched around a statue of Feliks Dzerzhinsky, the founder of the K.G.B., and waved banners that included one reading, "Yankee Go Home."


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton saluting as he and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, left Russia yesterday for Belarus. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 1); Mr. Clinton angered nationalists in Belarus yesterday by laying a wreath first at a memorial for the Nazis' victims, then for those killed by Stalin. (Reuters) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (97%); BELARUS (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (68%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS; MIDDLE EAST; ; SYRIA; MIDDLE EAST (97%); BELARUS (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (68%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BELARUS-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS ; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (72%); TERRORISM (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); TRENDS (63%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



416 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Broader Acceptance Sought for King Holiday

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 15

 BODY:
The Rev Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday will be officially observed for the ninth time on Monday, but the holiday is still struggling for broad acceptance: widely observed by governments, mostly ignored by businesses and in danger of being viewed as a black holiday rather than a national one.
Admirers of Dr. King are rethinking the national observance and trying to change the public perception of it from civil rights to broader themes of nonviolence and public service and prevent it from being marginalized as a second-tier holiday. 
 "We have two challenges," said Alan Minton, chief of staff for the Martin Luther King Jr. Federal Holiday Commission, created in 1984 to establish and promote the holiday. "One is to make sure it's an American holiday, not just an African-American holiday, and two is to perform some sort of community service work. Like Mrs. King says, the holiday is not where it should be, not where it can be and certainly not where we want it to be, but participation is increasing, and we think we're on the verge of becoming something substantive and meaningful."
Born in often rancorous debate, wedded to still painful issues of politics and race, the King holiday, marking his birth on Jan. 15, 1929, has a unique place in the nation's official holidays. But its problems in achieving broad acceptance may have as much to do with the difficulty of establishing a tradition and convincing employers to give their workers a day off as with enduring controversy.
This year the holiday, which is observed on the third Monday of January, will be celebrated by all 50 states, the Federal Government and many local governments and school districts. Observances range from a sunrise prayer service in Miami to a tribal dance by American Indians in Great Falls, Mont., from gun-buyback programs in Florida and other states to a multicultural breakfast in Phoenix honoring both Dr. King and Cesar Chavez, the leader of the United Farm Workers' Union, who died last year. In New York, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo made the day a working day for the State Assembly to consider gun control measures. He said curbing the use of arms was the most powerful tribute that could be paid to Dr. King.
But winning over the nation's employers and weaving the holiday into the fabric of American life has proved difficult. According to the Bureau of National Affairs, a Washington-based research and publishing concern, employees at 22 percent of the businesses surveyed will get the day as a paid holiday this year. A 1990 study of the Fortune 500 companies, found that 18 percent gave the day off. For many, it is an optional, floating holiday that can be observed or taken at another time. Employers in the South, which has the highest percentage of blacks in its population, were the most likely to give a holiday.
On the other hand, about 8 in 10 governmental agencies and banks, and 2 in 3 school and colleges will close.
 
Progress Is Measured
 Mr. Minton said the figures showed substantial progress, and he said he believed that trend was accelerating. For example, a study done for the King holiday commission found that the number of those participating in the holiday increased to 31 percent last year from 23 percent in 1991.
But the figures do not approach the status of the most-observed holidays, Christmas, New Year's, Thanksgiving, Independence Day, Labor Day and Memorial Day, which are days off for 99 percent of the nation's businesses. A 1985 study by the Bureau of National Affairs found that 45 percent of employers gave days off for President's Day, 40 percent observed Good Friday, which is not a national holiday, and 20 percent gave Veterans Day off.
Businesses, large and small, say their reluctance to give employees the day off reflects economics, not politics.
"It comes at the wrong time of year for preparing taxes," said Brent Stewart, who employs eight people in his accounting firm in Scottsdale, Ariz. "But if it didn't, I would consider it."
The Boeing Company, which employs 86,000 people in the Seattle area, has never celebrated the King Holiday, or any other holiday between New Year's and Memorial Day.
 
Resistance to Change
 "This goes back at least 25 years," said Paul Bender, a Boeing spokesman. "We shut down around Christmas and don't get a break until Memorial Day."
Along with a lack of observance, the holiday also suffers from a lack of definition. Organizers want the holiday to have broad, ecumenical appeal, but even some blacks feel its focus is supposed to be on black issues. In Arizona, where feelings are still raw over the long battle for statewide designation for the holiday, there is general support for the multicultural tint to the observance. But some blacks have objected to honoring both Dr. King and Mr. Chavez.
"It's stupid and shows no respect to the black community," said Carolyn Lowery, who is politically active in the black community.
To some blacks, the lack of general observance is an indication that the racial issues Dr. King addressed are still troubling the country.
"It's a slap in the face to the African-American community," said Willie B. Kennedy, a member of the Board of Supervisors in San Francisco.
Indeed, for white supremacist groups, the holiday has become an occasion to show their distain for Dr. King. The Ku Klux Klan has scheduled demonstrations in eight cities from Ohio through Texas.
Backers of the holiday are aware of the problems and trying to deal with them before the holiday becomes too narrowly defined.
Dr. King's widow, Coretta Scott King, at the start of 10 days of observances of the holiday at the King Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta, said the violence buffeting American life made the holiday particularly relevant. She called on people here and abroad to stop the violence and dedicate the day to community service as a way to continue Dr. King's work.
Dr. King's youngest daughter, the Rev. Bernice King, in an interview, said focusing on race served only to limit and distort Dr. King's life and work.
"The whole controversy about it being a black holiday is unfortunate," she said. "I like to think he was a nonviolent prophet for this country, kind of like Gandhi in his country."
A group of scholars, civil rights leaders and public officials, calling itself the American Committee to Invigorate the King Holiday, was formed last year to increase observance of the holiday and promote meaningful community service projects.
"The King Holiday has incredible importance in a country where violence is the major subject of the land and of the time," said Peter Kovler, a writer and investor who formed the committee to invigorate the holiday. "Who else pops up into your head on the subject of violence in this country? I've searched. King is the only one."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children celebrating the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday by laying a wreath by his statue in Raleigh, N.C. (Associated Press) (pg. 1); Children in Atlanta watching the National Parade of Celebration honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Michael A. Schwarz for The New York Times) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MONTANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS; BLACKS (IN US) HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (89%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GUN CONTROL (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); FARM LABOR (50%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68); APPLEBOME, PETER MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



417 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Ulster Church Leaders Seek End of Job Bias

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS 

 BODY:
In an unusual joint statement, leaders of both Roman Catholic and Protestant churches in Northern Ireland have called for vigorous efforts to combat discrimination in the work place and attract foreign investment.
The declaration, issued in Belfast on Friday, challenges a widespread view in the Protestant population and among some overseas investors that job discrimination is a Catholic issue or one linked only to Irish nationalist politics. The statement was signed by Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist and Anglican church officials. 
 Cahal Cardinal Daly of Armagh and the Rev. John Dunlop, former moderator of the Presbyterian Church in Northern Ireland, expressed hope that the joint nature of the statement would add to the momentum for finding a solution to end the violence dividing Protestants who want Northern Ireland to remain a British province and Catholics opposed to British rule.
Catholic discontent is aggravated by the high unemployment rate among Catholic men in Northern Ireland, generally more than twice the jobless rate of Protestants. More than 28.4 percent of the province's Catholic men were out of work in 1991, compared with 12.7 percent of Protestant men, according to Government census figures for 1991, the latest year for which a breakdown was available. The difference is somewhat narrower for women.
Procedures to limit discrimination against Catholics and resolve the disparities were written into a 1989 Fair Employment Act, which is now under review. But with even Protestant unemployment exceeding 12 percent, the measures have fostered tensions similar to those surrounding affirmative action programs in the United States.
"There are people in the Protestant churches who think of fair employment as wrapped up in the nationalist ideology, or as discriminating against Protestants," Mr. Dunlop said. "This lifts it out of that context."
The church leaders agreed that high unemployment was found "disproportionately in the Catholic community." They argued that the public needs to be educated about discrimination and the need to remove it. While opposing "reverse discrimination or quotas," the church leaders backed the use of "goals and timetables" and other measures that they see as strengthening the 1989 anti-discrimination law.
The statement, Drafted with the endorsement of Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist and Episcopal officials in the United States, is aimed at people on both sides of the Atlantic. It was endorsed on Friday by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Ancient Order of Hibernians, an Irish-American fraternal group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; PROTESTANT CHURCHES

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; PROTESTANT CHURCHES

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN IRELAND; NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; DISCRIMINATION; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); INWARD INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); CENSUS (72%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (71%); TRENDS (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER JOHN THOMAS DUNLOP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



418 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: NEW ONTARIO LAW BOLSTERS STRIKERS

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Jan. 15

 BODY:
The scrap wood burning in a rusty oil drum warmed the hands of Anna Sarra during a break from the picket line. The temperature was below zero, and there was a chill wind as she huddled around the crackling fire with other members of Local 175 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union at a shopping mall in northwest Toronto.
The 38-year-old cashier, who had been earning an hourly wage equivalent to $12.40 in American currency, is one of 6,500 Miracle Food Mart workers who walked out last Nov. 18 after management in Montvale, N.J., said it wanted to close stores, lay off hundreds of workers and slash wages. 
 With a 6-year-old daughter at home and an income equivalent to $67.50 a week in American money in strike pay, Ms. Sarra has little to smile about.
But she brightened up when the talk turned to a new law banning the use of replacement workers in a strike, one of the most far-reaching and hotly debated labor reforms in Canada. American unions, supported by President Clinton, are pushing for a similar law in the United States.
"It's helped us," Ms. Sarra said. "They can't run the stores without us, and I guess if they ended up hiring scabs in here, we wouldn't have liked that very much, and there would have been some violence."
Jim Hobbs, 49, a former meat cutter who makes the equivalent of $13.57 an hour in United States currency and one of the strike coordinators, explained that the only person who can legally work in any of the stores is the manager. "And you can't run a supermarket with one person," he said
 
All the Stores Closed
 Days after the walkout, the first major strike since the law took effect, the Ontario Labor Relations Board ordered the company to stop using replacements. All 63 stores in the chain, run by the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, were forced to close.
The law is a product of Ontario's socialist-oriented New Democratic government. In the public relations war before passage in November 1992, Premier Bob Rae was depicted on billboards and in television ads as Marx and Lenin. Labor showed employers as skinflints of the same class that kept children in factories a century ago.
The Ontario government says the law has reduced bitterness and brought a spirit of cooperation to the workplace. Strikes are indeed fewer; yet that could reflect Canada's 11 percent joblessness as well as the law.
The Labor Ministry recorded 76 stoppages through November resulting in 243,970 lost person days, compared with 119 strikes in the same 1992 period and 556,010 lost person days. But contracts were less lucrative, chiefly reflecting the weak economy.
The sweeping legislation also eased restrictions on union organizing, for example, allowing organizers and pickets to operate inside shopping centers and industrial parks and banning some anti-union petitions. One result: a rise in applications for union certification. .
One of the largest supermarket operators in Canada and the United States, A.&P. acquired Miracle Mart three years ago. It also operates several other chains in Ontario, including Dominion Stores, Super Fresh, Food Emporium and Sav-A-Center.
Courts have allowed the union to shift pickets from the closed Miracle Mart stores to other units of the A.&P. group that are not on strike, thus increasing pressure on management.
 
Substantial Adverse Impact
 A. & P. -- half of which is owned by one of the largest supermarket chains in Europe, the Tengelmann Group of Muhlheim-an-Ruhr, Germany -- has already reported a substantial adverse impact. Its net income in the fiscal quarter ended Dec. 4, which included the first two weeks of the strike, was only $379,000 in United States currency. The company said the cost of the shutdowns was $2.3 million in United States currency.
Retail analysts said that A.&P. has been under pressure to cut costs because of nonunion competitors like the new "price clubs" in the Ontario market from the United States. These barn-like structures offer unusually attractive prices on a wide range of staples.
Michael Rourke, vice president for corporate affairs at A.&P.'s New Jersey headquarters, said the company "is taking the position that we're really not commenting on the strike." .
Mr. Hobbs, the strike coordinator, said the workers overwhelmingly rejected the company's last offer, which called for a cut of about 700 jobs and a wage reduction equivalent to $1.75 an hour in American dollars for full- and part-time employees. Management, he said, also demanded the withdrawal of seniority rights.
Many economists say a year may not be enough time to make a judgment about the law, but for the people around the oil drum fires, it is a welcomed ally. "We're being pushed around right now," said Ms. Sarra, "but we're also making history defining the law by doing all this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GAP (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (83%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%); 

COMPANY: GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; STRIKES; LABOR UNIONS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION STRIKES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); CHILD LABOR (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



419 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: FIGURE SKATING;
Images of Bodyguard Textured by Shadows

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 15

 BODY:
As Portland television stations repeatedly played the images of Nancy Kerrigan, crumpled and crying after she was attacked at the national figure skating championships last week, Shawn Eric Eckardt began to realize the gravity of his role in the crime. Seized by feelings of anguish and a need to tell his story, he sought out a minister friend and revealed what he and others had done.
With a past that includes an arrest for soliciting a prostitute, extensive interest in espionage and brief service as the bodyguard for Kerrigan's rival, Tonya Harding, Eckardt hardly seems the type to be swayed by sentiment or emotion. 
 Yet that scenario, according to his lawyer, began a sequence of events that has provided Federal and state investigators an outline of a conspiracy to injure Kerrigan and give Harding a clearer path to an Olympic gold medal next month in Lillehammer, Norway.
 
Who Else Is on Arrest List?
 Just how wide the conspiracy stretches is the central issue in a case that has captured worldwide attention for its criminal intrigue, played out against the spectacle of the Winter Olympics, its most popular sport and the commercial opportunities that await an Olympic figure skating champion.
By Friday, Eckardt and two other men had been arrested and charged with conspiracy to commit assault, and lawyers involved in the case predicted that more arrests were likely soon -- a strong suggestion that Jeff Gillooly, who is Harding's former husband, or Harding herself, could be implicated.
Both have denied any involvement in the case, and last week each retained a different lawyer from the same firm, Garvey, Schubert & Barer, which is primarily known for handling civil cases.
 
 
Investigators Are Noncommittal
 Robert C. Weaver, a former United States Assistant Attorney who is representing Harding, said in an interview that he does not believe she is currently the subject of the investigation. Weaver said that investigators had not yet interviewed Harding although they were "circumspect" in response to his questions about their suspicions.
"They didn't say either way," said Weaver, who was recommended to Harding by her coach's husband, who is also a lawyer. "They simply said they have a number of questions they need answers to. But I don't have the feeling they are focusing on her."
Christopher P. Koback, who is representing Gillooly, did not respond to a message left for him.
Edward J. Jones, a Portland criminal defense lawyer who is not involved in the case, said that in general, anyone with prior knowledge of a conspiracy would only be vulnerable to charges if prosecutors can prove any subsequent act contributed to the crime.
 
'A Man With a Heart'
 Whatever happens next will depend in large part on what Eckardt has told the authorities. But already, Eckardt, a 26-year-old lifelong friend of Gillooly, has played a major role in helping investigators examine the extent of the conspiracy and who did what in the attack.
"Contrary to the way he has been portrayed this last week, my client is a man with a heart, a soul and a conscience," Eckardt's lawyer, M. Mark McKnight, said in an interview. "If he had not sought the counsel of a spiritual confidant, the authorities would still be running around in the dark."
Nearly all those directly involved in the case, including lawyers in the district attorney's office, Federal investigators and Eckardt, have declined to comment on any aspect of the conspiracy. That silence has created a void that has been generously filled by a wealth of conflicting reports of who told what to which authorities.
 
Confession to a Friend
 However, it seems clear by now that the investigation received a considerable boost once Eckardt told his version of events to Eugene C. Saunders, a 24-year-old minister of the Celebration New Song Church and a classmate of Eckardt's at Pioneer Pacific College, a small trade school outside of Portland where they were studying to become paralegals.
McKnight, who taught the two of them in a legal ethics class at the school, said that once Saunders had heard the story, he related it to another instructor, a Portland private detective named Gary Crowe.
In an interview, Crowe recalled his meeting with Saunders and quoted the minister as telling him: "You're not going to believe this. But you know that Kerrigan deal? Shawn Eckardt arranged it. He played me a tape."
Crowe said Saunders told him he had heard an audio tape of a conversation in which Eckardt, Gillooly and another man planned the attack. Crowe said that he did not hear the tape, but after his conversation with Saunders, they both went to the F.B.I.
 
An Earlier Proposal
 The minister was a likely sanctuary for Eckardt, Crowe said, because "Eugene would help anybody. Everybody trusted him." Crowe described Saunders as being "totally distraught" after Eckardt came to him.
Saunders has declined to speak to reporters. Whether the authorities have the tape, whether it still exists or whether it ever existed are among the many questions lawyers in the case have declined to answer.
In any event, other evidence suggests that Eckardt was intent on arranging an assault on Kerrigan. Russell Rietz, a 38-year-old student at Pioneer Pacific, said that Eckardt had approached him several weeks ago with an offer.
"He said, 'I got a job for somebody,' " Rietz said. "He asked me if I would kill somebody for $65,000? I said no. He said, 'Would you break someone's leg for $65,000?' I said no."
Rietz said he "sort of laughed off" the conversation. But he added, "Right after the Kerrigan thing, he said, 'Did you hear the news? We got her.' "
In an interview today on a Portland television station, KATU, another fellow student, 20-year-old Sarah Bergman, said Eckardt had told her of a plot to get Kerrigan.
 
A Resume Filled With Intrigue
 Eckardt's three-page resume describes a man more experienced than James Bond. For example, working as a "contract operations specialist" for a Swiss firm from 1984 to 1988, when he was between the ages of 17 and 21, he said he "successfully tracked and located targeted terrorist cells throughout the Middle East, Central America, and Europe; coordinated and conducted a successful hostage retrieval operations (sic); performed advanced surveys for close protection details in Europe, the United States and Southeast Asia."
Despite all that activity, McKnight said that his 300-pound client was "not smart enough" to have masterminded the conspiracy plot against Kerrigan.
On Thursday night, Eckardt became the first of three men arrested in the case, as he was brought into the Multnomah County Sheriff's office in handcuffs. It was at least the second time in six years he was charged with a criminal activity. In 1988, he was arrested in Oregon City, a small town 13 miles south of Portland, for soliciting a prostitute. He was fined and given a one-year probation.
 
Portland Awash in Speculation
 Within the hour of his latest arrest, he was followed into the sheriff's office by Derrick B. Smith, a 29-year-old unemployed resident of Phoenix who authorities believe drove the getaway car in Detroit.
Both men were arraigned in county court on Friday, hours after the F.B.I. said its agents in Phoenix had arrested the man they say committed the assault on Kerrigan, Shane M. Stant, a 22-year-old nephew of Smith.
Later in the day, Eckardt posted bail, the required 10 percent of $20,000; Smith posted the same amount today.
Within the last few days, all kinds of rumors and speculation have flooded this scenic city of one million, astride the Willamette River in the northwest corner of the state. Principally, they concern what role, if any, Harding might have had in the attack.
 
Harding Described as 'Drained'
 Weaver, who said he only met Harding on Friday, described her as being "absolutely drained" by events of the last two weeks, to the extent she has been unable to sleep or practice -- a major concern for her with the Olympics beginning soon.
He also said that from his brief involvement in the case, "it makes no sense to me" that she would have been part of a conspiracy. "She never would be able to live with herself if she didn't win straight up," he said.
Events initiated by Eckardt's disclosures have also touched a 49-year-old unemployed native of Jackson Heights, Queens, named Joe Haran, now a Portland resident and the editor of "The Tonya Harding Fan Club Newsletter."
Haran said today that he had checked himself into the Veterans Medical Center in Portland this week, complaining of extreme depression and despondency.
"It all became too much for me to bear," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shawn Eric Eckardt, Tonya Harding's bodyguard, being taken for arraignment in Portland, Ore., on Friday. (Associated Press); Nancy Kerrigan speaking to reporters on Friday. (Associted Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NORWAY (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (91%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GARVEY SCHUBERT & BARER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORWAY (79%); OREGON, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; ASSAULTS WINTER SPORTS (93%); ICE SKATING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (68%); PROSTITUTION (56%); ESPIONAGE (56%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; HARDING, TONYA; KERRIGAN, NANCY; ECKHARDT, SHAWN ERIC NANCY KERRIGAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



420 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
After 13 Seasons, Who Could Be Taylor's Next Target?

BYLINE: By MIKE FREEMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Lawrence Taylor, one of the best defensive players ever, did what everyone expected him to do: he retired today after 13 years of pro football.
In an eloquent but unemotional announcement in a cramped room below Candlestick Park, Taylor, who is a shoe-in for the Hall of Fame, announced his retirement after the Giants' humiliating 44-3 loss to San Francisco. His reason was simple: he said he just couldn't do it anymore. 
 When asked what he thought his legacy would be, he said in typical Taylor fashion that he would leave it to the people who follow the game.
"That's not for me to decide," he said. "People will remember me for what they remember me. The players, the people who study the game, they know what I brought to it."
Taylor knew months ago that he was going to retire, but didn't want to announce it because he felt it would cause a distraction to the team. He spoke to Coach Dan Reeves about retiring several times this season, and Reeves told him to make sure it was a not a decision based on emotion, but one based on whether he thought he could still play after this season. Before the season, he signed a two-year contract worth $2.25 million a season. Since the contract wasn't guaranteed he will not receive next year's salary.
Taylor isn't the emotional type, and he was upset with a reporter who asked him to describe his feelings. But his words were passionate, even if his demeanor was not.
"I'm going to miss just being around the guys," said Taylor. "I've been playing with the Giants for 13 years. It seems like I've been in the locker room thousands and thousands and thousands of times. It's been my world for a lot of years."
Many consider Taylor to be the best linebacker in the history of the game. He is the reason many young players today wear his No. 56. In his prime, he did things no other player could do, and some think the offensive left tackle position became so important because of Taylor's blinding hits on the quarterback's blind side.
"I think it's time for me to retire," he said. "I've done everything I can do. I've been to Super Bowls. I've done things that other people haven't been able to do."
But this season, coming off an Achilles' tendon injury, Taylor just didn't have it. And he knew it. He had six sacks and 79 tackles -- not bad, but Taylor is used to being great. There were many games when he was simply a nonfactor on the field.
"Over the years I've been able to find some way to counteract what the other team is doing, but today I couldn't," Taylor said. "It just wasn't there."
Where Taylor did constantly excel was in the locker room providing leadership. A tirade by him at halftime last Sunday helped propel the Giants past Minnesota in the wild-card game. He may not remember everyone's names sometimes -- he often referred to some of the young players by their numbers -- but everyone was touched just by the fact that such a great figure in the history of sports was around them.
"His personality is what made him great," said Phil Simms. "He was the greatest linebacker to ever play the game. I'll miss him."
Reeves said: "I'm happy for him and I know he'll be as successful outside of football as he was on the field."
Taylor, who said he will take the next couple of weeks to decide what he's going to do in place of football, likely won't be unemployed for long. Certainly he will pay more attention to his business, All-Pro Sports, and there is always the possibility he could go to televison as an analyst. But what does he plan on doing in the immediate future?
"Hook up with Michael Jordan and play some golf."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence Taylor won't list yesterday's 44-3 loss among his highlights, but it didn't alter his decision to retire. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: FREEMAN, MIKE; TAYLOR, LAWRENCE LAWRENCE JULIUS TAYLOR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



421 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 8; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Threat of a Bloc Veto Hangs Over Meetings

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
In what could develop into one of the most momentous of their many meetings or deteriorate into another dud, major league club owners will gather in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., this week amid threats that some of them will hold the election of a commissioner hostage to revenue sharing.
The meetings have been preceded by a series of intriguing developments in the past week. 
 The low-revenue clubs, numbering from seven to nine, say they will consider blocking the election of a commissioner if the owners do not adopt a plan to share a significantly greater share of their local revenue.
Eight high-revenue clubs have made a commitment not to break ranks to support a revenue-sharing plan without seriously debating it among themselves. That means the other 20 clubs cannot expect to easily get the 21st vote they need to approve a plan proposed at the last owners' meeting Jan. 6.
And the commissioner search committee, according to a well-placed lawyer, is prepared to recommend Arnold Weber, retiring president of Northwestern University, to fill the office that has been vacant for nearly a year and a half.
 
Won't Be Overlooked
 The owners will resume their revenue-sharing debate Tuesday. During a meeting tomorrow of the executive council, the major leagues' ruling body, William Bartholomay of the Atlanta Braves, chairman of the search committee, is expected to recommend that Weber be the next commissioner.
Matters that are presented to the executive council often become buried, like bills in Congressional committees, but the acting commissioner, Bud Selig, said he "absolutely" has the matter of the commissioner on the agenda for Wednesday's session.
Some club people, not all of whom can vote, have questioned the wisdom of naming Weber, a 64-year-old academician and economist. He has advised presidents, but the critics say that he has too cozy a relationship with two Chicago powers, Stanton Cook, chairman of the Cubs, and Jerry Reinsdorf, chairman of the White Sox.
Cook and Reinsdorf are members of the Northwestern board of trustees, Cook since 1987, Reinsdorf since last June, and Weber serves on the board of the Tribune Company, owner of the Cubs.
Weber, who will retire from Northwestern Aug. 31, was the last name to surface as a serious candidate for commissioner, but that's only because he also was the committee's best-kept secret.
 
The Small Block
 But the election of Weber, or anyone else, could be blocked by the small-revenue clubs, a group that includes Montreal, Pittsburgh, San Diego, Milwaukee, Minnesota, Seattle and Cincinnati. Those clubs desperately want a new revenue-sharing plan and are apparently prepared to take a militant stand to try to force it. Election of a commissioner requires 21 of the 28 votes.
Richard Ravitch, the clubs' chief labor executive, who has been in the forefront of the effort to forge a new revenue-sharing plan, said he has not heard of any threatened action linking revenue sharing and the commissioner. Selig, whose Brewers epitomize a low-revenue operation, said he hasn't "heard anything about that" either.
But high-ranking officials of two low-revenue clubs acknowledged that the possibility exists.
"I'm going to keep that to myself," said Claude Brochu, managing partner and president of the Expos, when asked about the threat to block election of Fay Vincent's successor. "I'm not going to comment on that. But that has been discussed."
Dick Freeman, president of the Padres, also declined to make concrete comment, but his words were revealing.
"I'm not going to get into that," he said. "Any comment I would make on that would be counterproductive. It's not in the best interests of the Padres or major league baseball to give any comment." Asked where the threat stood, Freeman said, "I can't say."
Their tacit confirmation of a report that originated with a man close to several owners made it curious that Selig would not be aware of the threat. Selig constantly communicates with other owners, and they credit the de facto commissioner with knowing everything that happens.
 
Of Overbearing Importance
 What would the low-revenue owners gain by blocking the election of a commissioner?
One official from a club not aligned with that group, who has heard the rumor of what those clubs might do, offered one possible explanation. "I think their point is to say this is of such importance to us that we don't want to go on to business as usual before this is clarified," he said. "We don't want it to get lost."
Jerry McMorris, chairman and president of the high-revenue Rockies of Colorado, said he hasn't heard specifics of the strategy, but he said, "I've heard words thrown around like anarchy."
At the other extreme, the eight members in solid standing of the high-revenue bloc are intent on preventing passage of a plan that would take too much of their money. The speculation coming out of the last meeting, in Rosemont, Ill., was that the proponents of the latest Ravitch plan would try to pick off St. Louis for the decisive 21st vote, perhaps altering the plan just enough to lure the Cardinals.
But the Cardinals have joined the other seven clubs in pledging their loyalty to the high-revenue bloc.
"The eight are very firm," McMorris said.
 
The Big Boys' Plan
 An official of another club, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, "There's a commitment among the group to stay together on the plan they developed and not support any other plan unless the group collectively decides otherwise."
The high-revenue plan received only 11 votes in Rosemont (the Big Eight plus Florida, Texas and Detroit), but its proponents believe closer study of it could produce additional supporters. The plan, presented last late in the day, marked the first time a proposal by the high-revenue clubs was discussed and voted on. With 11 days' extra time to consider it, some of the other clubs might see it as an alternative to the Ravitch variations, three of which failed to gain the necessary 21 votes.
Particularly inviting, the proponents believe, should be the formula they say could annually produce $10 million each for some of the lowest-revenue clubs. The big eight will push the plan Tuesday. The unknown element of the meetings, though, is which group will push the hardest.
 
Not Necessarily Pals
 Before Weber's name surfaced in the commissioner search, Harvey Schiller was viewed by some as the leading contender for the job. Schiller was perceived to be George Steinbrenner's candidate because Schiller is executive director of the United States Olympic Committee and the Yankees' owner is a committee vice president. These were two good buddies, it was widely thought.
But, said one owner who knows both men: "I don't think the two are best of pals. It's quite erroneous to make a correlation between two people who serve on the same body. In this instance, it's quite the contrary."
 
Reality Check, Please
 Upon his election into the Hall of Fame, Steve Carlton said, "I think I can still pitch." Why? He couldn't pitch in his last four seasons. He staggered to a 16-37 record as he became a vagabond, desperately trying to extend, but instead tarnishing, a brilliant career, one of the best ever.
 
Foul by Jordan
 Michael Jordan was too great a basketball player for baseball players to resent him, but he insults them all, major leaguers and minor leaguers, by his arrogance of thinking he can walk into the Chicago White Sox spring camp and -- poof! -- become one of them.
Hitting against a pitching machine or batting practice pitchers in three-hour, five-day-a-week workouts after having played no baseball in a dozen years or more will not convert the world's best athlete into a major league baseball player.
Bo Jackson and Deion Sanders, remarkable for their professional versatility, played baseball in college and the minors. Jackson, before his devastating hip injury, never did become a major league player with no serious flaws. Sanders needed four professional seasons, spent mostly in the minors, before becoming a legitimate major leaguer.
In parts of two major league seasons before 1992, Sanders batted .158 and .191. With all the winter and spring hitting he could get, if Jordan somehow played in the majors next season, he would be a personal success if he could average one hit every 10 times at bat. He would be virtually guaranteed to strike out more frequently than Jackson's one every 2.85 at-bats.
Jordan is acting like a spoiled little rich kid who thinks he should have whatever he wants. Jerry Reinsdorf, the man who runs the White Sox and the Bulls, should spank little Mikey and send him to bed without supper.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In spite of having floundered in his last four seasons, Steve Carlton says he thinks he can still pitch. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TRIBUNE CO (52%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL SPORTS REVENUES (91%); BASEBALL (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); VETO (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (70%); APPROVALS (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BUD SELIG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



422 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: How Family Planning Came to Bangladesh;
India's Dowry Problem

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Bangalore Journal: For Many Brides in India, a Dowry Buys Death" (news article, Dec. 30): My research on dowries in India has attempted to demonstrate that its major cause is the demographic phenomenon of too many brides looking for far fewer bridegrooms. This should be understood in the context of a marriage market, where women have to get married by a very young age or face severe social and economic consequences, and where 99 percent of men and women get married by their early 20's, with less than 2 percent getting divorced. 
 When mortality rates declined with health initiatives in the early 1930's, population grew. As in all populations with increasing growth rates, this resulted in a disproportion of younger people. As bridegrooms tend to be many years older than brides, this caused an excess of brides, and the resultant increased competition for scarce bridegrooms caused their price -- dowries -- to rise.
This relationship between excess brides and rising dowries is confirmed in ethnographic investigations conducted by me and other researchers, where respondents typically say they are compelled to pay high dowries because of the high degree of competition for scarce bridegrooms. This, even though the average dowry is more than five times a family's annual income.
My research seems also to confirm a statistical association between small dowry payments and wife beating. A woman who is married with a dowry that is perceived as inadequate by her husband's family is more likely to be beaten by him than a woman who pays a larger dowry. However, the extent of the husband's alcohol consumption also seems to make him more likely to be physically abusive. Women do not have the option of leaving an abusive husband, because of a lack of opportunities to earn an income and the social unacceptability of divorce. These conditions exacerbate matters.
Had there been no strict social sanctions against women staying unmarried, dowries may not have risen. The proportion of women choosing to stay single would have gone up instead. Thus the most effective and lasting solution to this problem is the provision of options to women outside marriage. This would involve widespread investments in their education and training, along with employment opportunities outside traditional local labor markets, which are inextricably tied to the male-dominated social structure.
 
VIJAYENDRA RAO
Ann Arbor, Mich., Jan. 5, 1994
The writer is adjunct assistant professor of economics, University of Michigan Population Studies Center.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); BANGLADESH (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%); 

CITY: BANGALORE, INDIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (94%); BANGLADESH (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%); BANGALORE, INDIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; WOMEN; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; DOWRIES MARRIAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); WOMEN (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); MEN (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (55%); 

PERSON: RAO, VIJAYENDRA MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



423 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN;
Awaiting Repairs at the Fish Market

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
After a fire on Oct. 31 displaced several wholesalers at the Fulton Fish Market, city officials promised swift repairs to get them back in business for the holiday season. Eleven weeks later, repairs have yet to begin.
The fire gutted 109 South Street and forced the evacuation of two adjoining buildings. The brick buildings, all landmarks in the South Street Seaport Historic District, are boarded up and cordoned off by police barricades. The residual scent of smoke competes with the market's fishy aroma. And the fish dealers who worked in the three buildings are still in temporary quarters across the street; city officials did not know the exact number of companies affected by the fire. 
 In November, the Community Board 1 chairwoman, Anne Compoccia, contacted officials of the Economic Development Corporation and other agencies of the city, which owns the building where the fire started. They said the work would start right after Thanksgiving. Ever since, she said, she has been prodding them with calls and letters.
"The bureaucracy is destroying these little businesses and hurting the 30 or so families that make a living from this," she said.
Officials admit their plans went awry. "We're very disappointed with the turnaround time as well," said Pamela McKoin, a senior vice president at the economic agency. "We went to the board and represented that these things would be done faster. It was an unintentional misrepresentation, because we misunderstood the process with the insurance company." Once the insurance claim is settled, she said, contractors could start within a few weeks and finish in a couple of months. She declined to estimate the cost of work, which would entail restoring No. 109 and safeguarding the adjoining buildings from collapse.
Meanwhile, the businesses say they are having a hard time because customers can't find them at their old location. "Space in the market is at an absolute premium, and basically if you're out of operation for a couple of weeks, as they were, you're out of business," said Gerald J. McMahon, a lawyer for the Fulton Fish Market and for Carmine Sarnelli, owner of one of the buildings.
The wholesalers are willing to put up their own money to stabilize the buildings so that their fish stands can resume business on the sidewalk, Ms. Compoccia said. So far the city has not accepted that offer. "We put men on the moon," she said, "but we can't shore up three little buildings." B.L.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC) FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); CITIES (90%); FIRES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



424 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLUSHING/FRESH MEADOWS;
Portrait of Decline at a City Parking Garage

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The city-owned parking garage in downtown Flushing is crumbling after years of neglect and is in the worst condition of any of the city's 16 garages, a City Council investigation has determined.
The findings offer a striking and detailed portrait of the 1,100-spot garage's decline: crumbling beams and girders; leaking drainage pipes clogged with weeds and shrubs, and flaking and eroding ceilings. 
 City Council investigators say the lack of regular maintenance over the years has driven up the cost of repairs to nearly $3 million from $136,000 in 1985, figures that the Department of Transportation was unable to confirm.
Councilwoman Julia Harrison, who requested the investigation, called the upkeep of the garage "the kind of work that is not sexy and doesn't get a lot of attention." But, she added, parking is "critical to the survival of the retail district in the area. How can people shop if there's nowhere to park?"
Officials at the Department of Transportation say the garage is structurally sound. But they note that until 1991 they could not undertake renovations because the city's Economic Development Corporation had a plan to replace the garage, a plan that has fallen through. Now, the Transportation Department plans to rebuild it, starting in March, for $2.7 million.
The garage is still open, but residents, civic leaders and others have long expressed uneasiness and frustration over its deteriorating condition. Many say it has become a blemish in a neighborhood that is thriving with new shops and stores.
And increasing congestion and streets clogged with double- and triple-parked cars underline how ill-equipped the area is to handle the accompanying rise in demand for parking spots.
Councilwoman Harrison opposes an overhaul of the garage, calling it a "primitive" structure that should be demolished. She endorses a plan proposed by community leaders to use the space as public square with an underground parking garage.
Lisa Daglian, a spokeswoman for the Department of Transportation, said of the garage, "It's not pretty, but it's safe." RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Report Card: Parking Problems" shows condistions at city-run garages in Queens. (Sources: New York City Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLUSHING (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RETAILERS (68%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



425 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Building the Szechuan Empire

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
CHICKEN teriyaki pizza? Relax, some people are already eating it, but out in one of the suburban satellites of the Empire Szechuan Gourmet restaurant, not in the founding emporium itself, where Misa Chang rules as ever with an entrepreneurial sixth sense of when the Upper West Side will be ready for whatever chopstick challenge should come next.
"It take time, so maybe next menu," Ms. Chang explains, her eyes darting carefully across a small tabletop feast in the Empire Szechuan flagship restaurant at Broadway and 97th Street. The tiny, hyperkinetic businesswoman scrutinizes the evening's gleaming array of dishes with the same managerial eye she applies to the nine Manhattan restaurants of the Empire Szechuan chain that she oversees in her long-running, ever-evolving partnership with Jimmy Shau. 
 The two started out 17 winters ago with six tables, $25,000 in loans from family and friends, and Ms. Chang's hunch that West Side palates were ready for the new, more eclectic cuisine of her native Taiwan, China's fabled crossroads island bastion, where her father and grandfather were master chefs.
What followed has been one of the grandest small-business successes of modern Manhattan commerce: a highly popular chain of restaurants whose menus, though more than ubiquitous, are never predictable. There is, for example, a new sushi bar and sushi chef tucked into a corner of the enlarged 97th Street restaurant. Lately, among other endless innovating, Ms. Chang has revived some of her grandfather's Taiwan noodle dishes, not to lose a step on the noodle mania lately sweeping the city's Asian restaurants, and she selected a special Taiwan supplier for the vegetarian basics of the chain's new health food menu of ersatz "meat" dishes.
Ms. Chang's Empire once totaled 13 eating places, but it has been pruned and consolidated to 9, including the new one at Broadway and 170th Street. This is a site that offers the sort of low-rent, high-risk adventuresomeness that was Ms. Chang's founding trademark in December 1976, when, as the young wife of a Ph.D. candidate at Columbia University, she desperately home-delivered takeout food herself to see the business through its early rocky months.
"Our tiger," says Mr. Shau, saluting his partner at the dinner table in the 97th Street restaurant. The compliment causes a bit of a metaphysical debate. True, Misa Chang has tenaciously etched the Empire's success through the city's long recession years, but not so much with a tiger's claws as with a gamecock's talons, according to her husband, Joseph Woo, who lovingly claws the air above his wife's busy little head.
Mr. Woo is one of the clan's executive chefs just back in from the suburbs to report that the experiment with chicken teriyaki pizza and other Oriental adaptations of the Italian staple is being wolfed down happily out in the new Massapequa Park Empire Szechuan. This is one of four Long Island satellites opened in the chain's evolution, which characteristically is more defined by informal Chinese family traditions than by Western notions of franchise, stockholding and other contracted arrangements.
The clan, with the canny Ms. Chang at its heart, shares restaurant capital and savvy for new ventures on the basis of blood kinship and deep friendship. The matriarch is always importing the latest master chefs to update the flagship restaurant offerings and to spread them from the primal woks of 97th Street through the rest of the Empire.
"Ideas like 'franchise' do not work in explaining our business," notes Mr. Shau of the Empire's 200 employees and dozens of interrelated chefs and managers. "We say we are family and leave it at that," he says, politely declining to specify Empire's current balance sheet, profits dispersal and capital success, but at least directing a digging reporter's chopsticks over toward the spicy lobster.
City dwellers pose a complicated question in wondering why Ms. Chang and Mr. Shau have skipped the other four boroughs in fostering so many Manhattan eateries and then leaping eastward to Long Island. The answer, Ms. Chang says, lies first in her commitment to her Manhattan roots and to her compulsion to visit personally and boss the Empire restaurants, much as she still compulsively goes off to the Bronx wholesale markets at midnight to choose produce personally for the Empire menus.
Then again, the answer lies in the fact that Homer Lee, a business consultant and much- trusted principal now in the Empire, is based on Long Island and presents a personal tie to the restaurants of that market. Customers constantly propose new neighborhoods, but Misa Chang prefers a mix of care and providence over pure marketing strategems. The new 170th Street restaurant was right in her mind for a whole complex of reasons, not only in following her early, low-rent customers northward in their economic migration but also in establishing an Empire outpost for her 18-year-old daughter, Julie, to run.
"Danger area?" Misa Chang asks of the uptown neighborhood. "Nah, she in charge now," she declares, happy with the mother-daughter parallel in recalling that 97th Street was forbidding, too, when she first opened the doors and, after two hours, sold an 80-cent takeout order of egg drop soup.
"I so scared, I locked the doors," she recalled of those struggling days in which success was gradually delivered by such early customers as Marty Reisman, a Ping-Pong champion of classic West Side sensibilities, and students at Columbia University. They discovered that the Empire Szechuan not only offered low-priced new dishes, but also delivered them free. More important was Misa Chang's desperate stratagem of papering the neighborhood with her menu, an innovation in those days that haunts the West Side now. "I'm first at that," the business woman confesses unapologetically.
Jimmy Shau smiles in nostalgia amid the booming success of the restaurant, which recently subsumed a Blimpie's and Mexican restaurant in enlarging down Broadway from its busy southeast corner stronghold. In making this move, Mr. Shau and Ms. Chang strategically accepted the loss of their older sidewalk cafe, which was closed after the local community board revoked the cafe license in the West Side's sour "menu wars."
Some residents are furious that Empire Szechuan menus, along with many others now, are constantly delivered uninvited to building foyers. Ms. Chang says her restaurant will cease the advertising practice when her many competitiors do too. Meantime, she accepts the nightly overflow crowds as a popular vote of confidence in the Empire's food and continuing business acumen.
"I made a lot of friends here," says Misa Chang. "I stay. Get stronger."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chefs prepare the dishes at the Empire Szechuan flagship restaurant at Broadway and 97th Street. The menus, though more than ubiquitous, are never predictable. (C. M. Hardt for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (93%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE SZECHUAN (NYC RESTAURANT CHAIN) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE SZECHUAN (NYC RESTAURANT CHAIN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (93%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (92%); MEAT FREE DIETS (79%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); SUBURBS (73%); PASTA & NOODLES (69%); RECESSION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



426 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN;
Stretch of Piers Awaits Its Turn To Be Cinderella

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
The four city-owned piers along the East River at Manhattan's southern tip have long been overshadowed by their waterfront neighbors: the South Street Seaport Historic District and Fulton Fish Market. Over the years the piers have had a number of uses, including as a parking lot and as tennis courts run by the New York Health and Racquet Club beneath enormous plastic "bubbles."
Now city officials and local leaders are seeking to open up the waterfront to the public, provide recreation and attract more maritime businesses. The city's Economic Development Corporation is spending $10 million to restore the deteriorated pilings at Piers 13 and 14 and plans a parallel renovation of Piers 9 and 11. (There is no Pier 10 or 12.) The agency is also seeking $6 million in Federal aid for a pedestrian esplanade connecting Battery Park to the South Street Seaport. 
 Community Board 1 is considering a more far-reaching proposal that also calls for parks, playgrounds, a marina, restaurants, a boat showroom, fishing and sailing boats, and tackle rental shops. The piers now have ferries to Brooklyn and New Jersey, a hospital ship, the dinner cruise ship Mystique, and Delta Air Line's water shuttle to La Guardia.
How soon improvements appear will depend on government aid, the economy, the demand to do business at the piers and policy decisions by the Giuliani administration. A draft of the board's proposal urges paying for the projects with revenue from the commercial uses.
The piers, remnants of New York's first port, languished for decades, cut off by the elevated Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, as developers dreamed of building a towering complex that would be the East Side equivalent of Battery Park City and the World Financial Center. With the current economic climate and heightened environmental restrictions on riverside development, many experts say it is unlikely that the plan will ever be realized.
A resolution going before the community board on Tuesday proposes an end to skyscraper zoning there, and the Economic Development Corporation agency also supports down-zoning. "We're trying to fulfill the piers' potential for much greater public use," said Paul Goldstein, the board manager.
The major sticking point is the board committee's plan to keep 65 percent of the pier space open to the public, in contrast to the agency's proposal of 40 percent. But Ann L. Buttenwieser, a vice president of the economic agency, said the board committee's proposal is "very much in tune with what we envision." BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fire damaged three buildings in the Fulton Fish Market on Oct. 31. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (72%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HEALTH & RACQUET CLUB INC (72%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PORTS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); ZONING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); TENNIS (71%); SPORTS (71%); BOAT DEALERS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



427 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: How the East Was Won

BYLINE: By Orlando Figes; Orlando Figes, the author of "Peasant Russia, Civil War," is writing a history of the Russian Revolution.

 BODY:

THE CONQUEST OF A CONTINENT
Siberia and the Russians.
By W. Bruce Lincoln.
Illustrated. 500 pp. New York: Random House. $30. 
 THE Russian conquest of Siberia, rather like the American conquest of the West, was a formative moment in the making of a nation. Just as the spirit of America was in part defined by its pioneers in the West, so that of Russia was defined by its conquest of the East. Many of the basic features of the Russian state reached their perfection (or imperfection) in Siberia. Nowhere else were its rulers so lawless, its customs so barbaric or its prisons and industries so vast and destructive. This was not so much a place as a state of mind.
In "The Conquest of a Continent," W. Bruce Lincoln tells the story of Siberia's subjugation through several hundred years, beginning at the end of the 16th century, very well. There is much to enjoy in his colorful narrative. But he does not tell us much, despite the book's subtitle, about the impact of that conquest on the history of Russia as a whole, and this will no doubt leave many feeling shortchanged. Nor does he say much about its impact on the indigenous Siberians -- the Buryats, Yakuts, Kirghiz, Oroks, Chukchi and dozens of other hunting, fishing and nomadic peoples -- despite a growing literature on this subject. This is like a history of the American West without the American Indians.
Mr. Lincoln, a professor of Russian history at Northern Illinois University, begins his book with the early geographic exploration of Siberia, which is two million square miles bigger than the United States. It is a wonderful story, perfectly suited to Mr. Lincoln's narrative style. As early as 1648 the celebrated explorer Semen Dezhnev sailed around its far northeastern tip, thus effectively proving that Asia was separate from North America, though at the time he had no idea of the importance of his discovery. Nearly a century later, Vitus Bering, a Dane in the service of the czars, sailed through what is now called the Bering Strait and into the Gulf of Alaska. The 50th state was originally colonized by the Russians as a new base for the hunting of sea otters, whose precious pelts had become scarce in Siberia. In 1867, when the animals had been virtually wiped out, it was sold to the United States for $7 million.
Commercially, the story of Siberia was a simple one of plunder. Cossacks, trappers and merchants exported furs to the West or traded them with the Chinese in exchange for cotton, silk and tea. Gold, coal and iron later became the main resources to be scooped out of the Siberian landscape. This lazy reliance on the export of raw materials has always been at the root of Russia's underdevelopment; even today such trade accounts for more than half of its gross domestic product. This is easier to understand when one stops to think of all the resources -- as Mr. Lincoln points out, a sixth of the world's gold and silver, a fifth of its platinum, a third of its iron and a quarter of its timber -- that Russia has in its backyard colony of Siberia. But the monopolistic nature of the Russian state, which cannibalized the country for its own needs, was also crucial in the underdevelopment of Siberia. There was neither a landowning gentry nor an independent class of entrepreneurs to turn Siberia into another America. It was only at the end of the 19th century, when a prosperous new tier of peasant dairy farmers arose on its western plains, that Siberia might have followed a different path. But the 1917 revolution prevented that, and most of them were later suppressed, branded by the Communists as kulaks, farmers too well-to-do to be tolerated.
Convicts, of course, were the main product and the very symbol of Siberia; when one thinks of its Arctic wastelands one automatically thinks of them. Mr. Lincoln gives an excellent survey of penal policy in Siberia from the 19th century to the gulags. Compared with the latter, the czarist penal system was extremely tame (Lenin was left to make his own way into exile in 1897 and was even allowed to take his hunting guns and half his library with him). But as Mr. Lincoln stresses, both systems largely served to provide free labor for the state economy. Convicts felled the timber, dug the mines and later built the railways, canals and dams that made Siberia the jewel in the Communist crown.
Perhaps Mr. Lincoln might have made more of the links between Soviet penal policy and economic planning in Siberia. The gigantic nature of the various building projects there -- from Stalin's construction of Magnitogorsk, the largest iron and steel plant in the world, to Brezhnev's giant power stations -- were all made possible by an endless supply of convict labor. On request from the economic ministries, the K.G.B. would simply arrest more "enemies of the people" and ship them off to the East.
It is tempting to conclude that the gigantic nature of these projects was also partly inspired by the sheer expanse of the Siberian landscape. The transformation of nature was central to the Marxist plan, and Siberia had an awful lot of nature to transform. But the dream of harnessing nature to the needs of man soon turned into the nightmare of destruction. Today the air of Siberia is polluted with chemicals, its Arctic coasts contaminated by radioactive waste, and Lake Baikal, which once held a fifth of the earth's fresh water, is not so fresh anymore. It is this concern that has largely fueled the recent movement for Siberian independence from Russia. Always resourceful on their own, the Siberians are fed up with serving the interests of their distant masters in Moscow. Don't be surprised if they one day break away.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barracks at one of Siberia's worst prisons around the turn of the century, where inmates slept on wooden benches. (THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS/FROM "THE CONQUEST OF A CONTINENT")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CONQUEST OF A CONTINENT, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: BERING SEA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); BERING SEA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GEOGRAPHY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); SPORT HUNTING (70%); MAMMALS (70%); HISTORY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MARINE MAMMALS (60%); 

PERSON: FIGES, ORLANDO; LINCOLN, W BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



428 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: How the East Was Won

BYLINE: By Orlando Figes; Orlando Figes, the author of "Peasant Russia, Civil War," is writing a history of the Russian Revolution.

 BODY:

THE CONQUEST OF A CONTINENT
Siberia and the Russians.
By W. Bruce Lincoln.
Illustrated. 500 pp. New York: Random House. $30. 
 THE Russian conquest of Siberia, rather like the American conquest of the West, was a formative moment in the making of a nation. Just as the spirit of America was in part defined by its pioneers in the West, so that of Russia was defined by its conquest of the East. Many of the basic features of the Russian state reached their perfection (or imperfection) in Siberia. Nowhere else were its rulers so lawless, its customs so barbaric or its prisons and industries so vast and destructive. This was not so much a place as a state of mind.
In "The Conquest of a Continent," W. Bruce Lincoln tells the story of Siberia's subjugation through several hundred years, beginning at the end of the 16th century, very well. There is much to enjoy in his colorful narrative. But he does not tell us much, despite the book's subtitle, about the impact of that conquest on the history of Russia as a whole, and this will no doubt leave many feeling shortchanged. Nor does he say much about its impact on the indigenous Siberians -- the Buryats, Yakuts, Kirghiz, Oroks, Chukchi and dozens of other hunting, fishing and nomadic peoples -- despite a growing literature on this subject. This is like a history of the American West without the American Indians.
Mr. Lincoln, a professor of Russian history at Northern Illinois University, begins his book with the early geographic exploration of Siberia, which is two million square miles bigger than the United States. It is a wonderful story, perfectly suited to Mr. Lincoln's narrative style. As early as 1648 the celebrated explorer Semen Dezhnev sailed around its far northeastern tip, thus effectively proving that Asia was separate from North America, though at the time he had no idea of the importance of his discovery. Nearly a century later, Vitus Bering, a Dane in the service of the czars, sailed through what is now called the Bering Strait and into the Gulf of Alaska. The 50th state was originally colonized by the Russians as a new base for the hunting of sea otters, whose precious pelts had become scarce in Siberia. In 1867, when the animals had been virtually wiped out, it was sold to the United States for $7 million.
Commercially, the story of Siberia was a simple one of plunder. Cossacks, trappers and merchants exported furs to the West or traded them with the Chinese in exchange for cotton, silk and tea. Gold, coal and iron later became the main resources to be scooped out of the Siberian landscape. This lazy reliance on the export of raw materials has always been at the root of Russia's underdevelopment; even today such trade accounts for more than half of its gross domestic product. This is easier to understand when one stops to think of all the resources -- as Mr. Lincoln points out, a sixth of the world's gold and silver, a fifth of its platinum, a third of its iron and a quarter of its timber -- that Russia has in its backyard colony of Siberia. But the monopolistic nature of the Russian state, which cannibalized the country for its own needs, was also crucial in the underdevelopment of Siberia. There was neither a landowning gentry nor an independent class of entrepreneurs to turn Siberia into another America. It was only at the end of the 19th century, when a prosperous new tier of peasant dairy farmers arose on its western plains, that Siberia might have followed a different path. But the 1917 revolution prevented that, and most of them were later suppressed, branded by the Communists as kulaks, farmers too well-to-do to be tolerated.
Convicts, of course, were the main product and the very symbol of Siberia; when one thinks of its Arctic wastelands one automatically thinks of them. Mr. Lincoln gives an excellent survey of penal policy in Siberia from the 19th century to the gulags. Compared with the latter, the czarist penal system was extremely tame (Lenin was left to make his own way into exile in 1897 and was even allowed to take his hunting guns and half his library with him). But as Mr. Lincoln stresses, both systems largely served to provide free labor for the state economy. Convicts felled the timber, dug the mines and later built the railways, canals and dams that made Siberia the jewel in the Communist crown.
Perhaps Mr. Lincoln might have made more of the links between Soviet penal policy and economic planning in Siberia. The gigantic nature of the various building projects there -- from Stalin's construction of Magnitogorsk, the largest iron and steel plant in the world, to Brezhnev's giant power stations -- were all made possible by an endless supply of convict labor. On request from the economic ministries, the K.G.B. would simply arrest more "enemies of the people" and ship them off to the East.
It is tempting to conclude that the gigantic nature of these projects was also partly inspired by the sheer expanse of the Siberian landscape. The transformation of nature was central to the Marxist plan, and Siberia had an awful lot of nature to transform. But the dream of harnessing nature to the needs of man soon turned into the nightmare of destruction. Today the air of Siberia is polluted with chemicals, its Arctic coasts contaminated by radioactive waste, and Lake Baikal, which once held a fifth of the earth's fresh water, is not so fresh anymore. It is this concern that has largely fueled the recent movement for Siberian independence from Russia. Always resourceful on their own, the Siberians are fed up with serving the interests of their distant masters in Moscow. Don't be surprised if they one day break away.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barracks at one of Siberia's worst prisons around the turn of the century, where inmates slept on wooden benches. (THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS/FROM "THE CONQUEST OF A CONTINENT")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CONQUEST OF A CONTINENT, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: BERING SEA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); BERING SEA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GEOGRAPHY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); SPORT HUNTING (70%); MAMMALS (70%); HISTORY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MARINE MAMMALS (60%); 

PERSON: FIGES, ORLANDO; LINCOLN, W BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



429 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 26; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: JAZZ VIEW;
Lincoln Center and Its Critics Swing Away

BYLINE: By Tom Piazza; Tom Piazza is the author of "Blues Up and Down: Jazz, Race and American Culture in Our Time," a collection of essays to be published next year.

 BODY:
JAZZ CRITICS HAVE ALWAYS BEEN an argumentative bunch, but the current critical uproar over the jazz program at Lincoln Center is something new. As the program has moved into its third season, reviewers, writing in The New York Post, The Daily News, the Nation and a number of other journals have attacked, with increasing frequency and stridency, Lincoln Center's attempt to establish a sort of canon for jazz -- a body of work by musicians as different as Louis Armstrong and Thelonious Monk that might define certain stylistic tendencies in the music.
The controversy reached a fever pitch in November when The Village Voice published a full-page broadside by the reviewer Kevin Whitehead that questioned the program's motives and philosophy in extremely combative terms. The program's artistic director, Wynton Marsalis, was so infuriated by the Whitehead piece, which came on the heels of another full-page critique only a month earlier by The Voice's regular jazz reviewer, Gary Giddins, that he wrote a 2,500-word response challenging Mr. Whitehead's premises and conclusions. The Voice declined to publish Mr. Marsalis's letter. 
 Because of the immense financial and logistical resources available for jazz at the nation's preeminent performing arts institution, Jazz at Lincoln Center has assumed a central importance in the debate over the definition and direction of America's most important native art form. Since most of the critics involved are white and most of the program's directorship is black, that debate has become an alternately illuminating and dismaying lesson in cultural politics.
Lincoln Center's jazz programming under Mr. Marsalis has been underway since 1987, first as the weeklong "Classical Jazz" series in August, then, since 1991, as the year-long Jazz at Lincoln Center. The latter has encompassed concerts, film programs, lectures, young people's concerts presided over by Mr. Marsalis and national tours by the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra.
Although almost all of Jazz at Lincoln Center's individual concerts have received extremely good reviews, some critics have called its governing vision "elitist," "divisive," "exclusionary," even "neo-conservative." Their main complaint has been the supposed absence of "new" music in the program's lineup, which leans heavily but not exclusively toward what Lincoln Center terms "classical" jazz. This appellation is applied to music that covers a wide stylistic and chronological range but addresses a number of specific esthetic preoccupations. These include swing at slow, medium and fast tempos, the blues, the romantic ballad and Afro-Hispanic rhythms, as found in the work of such disparate artists as Duke Ellington and Ornette Coleman.
The program's critics argue that Jazz at Lincoln Center should make room for a music with a more diffuse set of esthetic concerns, encompassing the work of such musicians as the reed virtuoso Anthony Braxton (who insists that his music is not jazz) and others who base their approaches in funk and world music. But running underneath the charges, like an especially tricky set of chord changes, are a number of questions surrounding the roles that African-American art has played in this society.
For years, most critics have shrugged their shoulders when asked to define jazz. As recently as last month, Mr. Whitehead himself asserted that the only possible definition was "I know it when I hear it." It is an odd statement for a critic to make -- imagine an art critic not being able to say what he means by, say, the Baroque -- but it is a typical one, and it betokens not so much a resistance to a particular definition as a resistance to any effort at definition whatsoever. Jazz is often the one place where people with otherwise good intellectual equipment insist that intelligible critical standards not be applied.
To understand why, one needs to face an uncomfortable truth about the relation of certain jazz critics to the music they write about. For these critics, jazz, like other parts of black culture, serves as a sort of Garden of Eden, a bit like Kipling's "Mandalay" -- some place east of Third Avenue where the best is like the worst and a critic can be absolved from the burden of history and intellectual responsibility.
Over and over, these critics assert the primacy in jazz of the "new," the "outrageous" and the "irrational." Their spiritual father, James Lincoln Collier, summed it up when he claimed that "jazz is emotion more than design," as if the two concepts were somehow less than compatible. This attitude is an extension of the Romantic myth of the Noble Savage, a role that blacks have long been saddled with in society, often by those who profess to be their greatest friends.
Such critics tend to be in constant search of "the new," a concept that fits an image of jazz as an iconoclastic music on the outside of the culture at large. Yet for the musicians themselves, from the time of King Oliver to the time of John Coltrane, the music has represented not an escape from responsibility and community but a sophisticated model of the way in which the individual and the community might work hand in hand. Jazz uses specific, definable musical techniques to achieve its democratic balance between the musical ideas of the improvising soloist and the ensemble against which, and with which, he plays. Music that does not use these techniques may be excellent music, but it is not, by Lincoln Center's criteria at least, jazz.
If there is a main problem in American art today, it is not that we need the new to unshackle us from a suffocating and outmoded tradition. The new is constantly pumped out, by the ton and 24 hours a day, into the esthetic rivers, reservoirs and gullies of our culture, and nobody needs to go looking for it. With all the economic force of corporate profit and advertising behind it, pop culture, with its Billy the Kid ethos, has in fact become the new establishment. In a truly Orwellian irony, the new is the status quo.
In times like these, the new, as these critics mean it, is not what saves an art. What saves an art is an attempt to rediscover its wellsprings or to redefine its roots. This process is not a "conservative" activity but a literally radical one. Within the realm of the arts, enduring forms constitute a kind of collective unconscious, without the use of which the artist is powerless. Glenn Gould once wrote that "all art is really variation upon some other art," and that statement applies not just to European "high art" but to any art.
Jazz at Lincoln Center is an attempt to address this notion. If the program has anything resembling a tragic flaw, it is that its directorship has been tactless and defensive, or worse, with some segments of the jazz press. Perhaps the defensiveness is understandable, given episodes like one that occurred last summer, in which the reviewer Chip Deffaa, writing in The Post, offered a list of critics -- all of whom happened to be white -- who might be called upon to oversee the decisions of the program's directorship. Send that man a mint julep.
No program of this sort is perfect, and no administrator is without blind spots or prejudices. Jazz at Lincoln Center is important enough to argue over at length, but paranoia and ad hominem attacks do the music no good. More midrash, please, and less diaper rash. Lincoln Center has a huge promise to fulfill, and anybody who loves jazz can only wish it well.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; JAZZ MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); CONSERVATISM (69%); 

PERSON: PIAZZA, TOM WYNTON MARSALIS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



430 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: The Man From Treasure Island

BYLINE: By Brock Baker; Brock Baker, a freelance writer and critic, has just finished a novel about New York family life in the 1960's.

 BODY:

DREAMS OF EXILE
Robert Louis Stevenson:
A Biography.
By Ian Bell.
296 pp. New York:
Henry Holt & Company. $25. 
 Robert Louis Stevenson was a successful author for only the last six or seven years of his short life (he died in 1894, at the age of 43). Yet in that short span the author of "Treasure Island," "Kidnapped," "The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" and "A Child's Garden of Verses" had become for a significant segment of the general public an icon of contemporary rebelliousness: a defier of religious and moral conventions in the guise of an esthete and a consumptive, who wrote as he lived and lived as he wrote. Stevenson's death on a South Sea island and his burial on the local mountaintop, where he was mourned by many of the local inhabitants, was a fittingly romantic ending to so adventuresome a life.
Inevitably there was a reaction, and then a reaction to the reaction, so that from shortly after his death right up to the present, every aspect of Stevenson's life has been the subject of much bitter wrangling. Given the accumulated dross from this bad-tempered controversy, one of the most important services performed by "Dreams of Exile," a short and fast-paced biography by Ian Bell, a former literary editor of The Scotsman, is to give a plausibly sympathetic account of Stevenson's wife of 13 years, for it is on her and on certain members of her family, all of whom outlived the writer by many years, that most of the ill feeling has been concentrated.
Stevenson was born in Edinburgh in 1850, the only son of a prosperous engineer and his often ailing wife, in the middle of the century during which the technological, economic and military might of Britain reached its greatest height. Yet the childhood of this scion of a scientific family was spent largely under the care of a country woman, whose amalgam of punitive hellfire Presbyterianism, fierce Scottish patriotism and local superstitions worked deeply on the child. He was made more susceptible by the days and weeks he was forced to spend at home with Cummy, as she was called, because of recurring bouts of ill health that continued to dog him throughout the rest of his life.
His early and middle 20's were spent in what passed for bohemian Edinburgh, in London and in France. While staying in the village of Barbizon he met Frances (Fanny) Vandegrift Osbourne, an American woman 10 years older than he, who with two small children was consciously seeking an artistic alternative to life with a philandering husband. After a complicated courtship that began slowly, he followed her back to America in August 1879 and married her in California on May 19, 1880.
Stevenson was being supported by his father at the time of their marriage, and it was not until he and Fanny had been back on the other side of the Atlantic for several years that he wrote the works that would make him famous. "Treasure Island" was written first, in 1881, with friendly suggestions from his father and the desire to amuse his stepson, Lloyd, playing key parts in its conception. However, it was the sensational and macabre novel "The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" (1886) that made Stevenson known to an adult readership in the hundreds of thousands. Its popularity in the United States led to generous book advances and newspaper commissions that at long last established his financial independence.
In the next seven years, before he died of a brain hemorrhage at his new home on an island in the South Seas, he wrote and published prolifically: most notably "Kidnapped" and its sequel, "David Balfour" (or "Catriona"), both written in a modified Scottish dialect and set in the Scotland of the previous century; a collection of South Sea tales full of sympathy for the contemporaneous exploitation of the islands' residents by outsiders; and an unfinished novel, also set in pre-Industrial Age Scotland, called "The Weir of Hermiston," the father of its title character based on a famous hanging judge of Stevenson's grandfather's day.
Mr. Bell declares himself no scholar: "I am a journalist, and do not pretend to be anything else." He has certainly taken a no-frills approach to Stevenson's life, eschewing all references to other biographies as well as footnotes to many of his quotations and other allusions. Making up for what some readers may feel are such serious drawbacks are his jargon-free, commonsensical and usually persuasive analyses of the book's key figures.
He describes Stevenson at 25, shortly after he met Fanny: "He was, in many important ways, still a boy. Illness had shredded his education and almost killed him, but it had also prolonged his adolescence, excusing him from the pressures of maturity. His life at this period was a series of vacations and jaunts interspersed with sickness and a little light essay writing."
Here is Fanny at the same period: "Fanny was one of those for whom the life of the artist, its affectations, conceits and freedoms, was as important as art itself. She could not help herself. The romance of bohemia -- however either word is defined -- appealed to her."
And here is the key to the marriage: "But Louis, for all his vigor, his insistence on freedom and his temper, responded in a deep and basic way to older women. It is the key to his sexuality, if there is one."
Yet the marriage worked, and Mr. Bell makes it seem, by and large, a good one for both of them. At least until the last two years of Stevenson's life, when she developed mental and physical problems, Fanny was able to be both tender nurse and protective wife, enabling him to be "heroic" (in his struggles against his illnesses) and productive. He in return gave her years of thoroughly bohemian poverty, then fame.
That Stevenson ended up living in the South Seas and surrounded by admiring local inhabitants will seem less romantic to most readers than it apparently does to Mr. Bell. On the other hand there was an endearing courageousness and idealism about Stevenson that may fairly be called romantic, and a few incidents both in Samoa and back in England illustrate that side of him. However, not surprisingly, its most effective expression was in his books. Unfortunately, Mr. Bell takes most of his examples of Stevenson's writings from occasional work: prefaces and dedications, the fairly lame travel writing of the pre "Treasure Island" period or the too-fluent autobiographical essays of Stevenson's later years. To bring Stevenson alive at the height of his "charm and artistic rigor" requires better examples of his art than these.
For instance, in "David Balfour," the central character is responding to the arguments of a high Scottish official that he should put politics first and the welfare of his friends second, for what we would call national security reasons:
" 'You deal with me very frankly, and I thank you for it,' said I. 'I will try on my side to be no less honest. I believe your policy to be sound. I believe these deep duties may lie upon your lordship; I believe you may have laid them on your conscience when you took the oaths of the high office which you hold. But for me, who am just a plain man -- or scarce a man yet -- the plain duties must suffice. I can think but of two things, of a poor soul in the immediate and unjust danger of a shameful death, and of the cries and tears of his wife that still tingle in my head. I cannot see beyond, my lord. It's the way that I am made. If the country has to fall, it has to fall. And I pray God, if this be willful blindness, that He may enlighten me before too late.' "
Many, including Mr. Bell, have argued that had Stevenson lived longer he would have achieved significantly greater stature as a novelist, and the strength of the novel fragment he left behind makes a case for this claim. More important, what he did write is often underestimated, because of its association with tales for the young. "Kidnapped" and "David Balfour" (although not, in my view, "Treasure Island" or "The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde") can be appreciated by the late-20th-century adult reader. This is the case not because our literature lacks able practitioners of narrative, a key reason given by Mr. Bell for Stevenson's continuing popularity, but because a spirit of selfless bravery, of a delight in physical activity, of high-heart edness amid the perils of life, is so rarely found.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Louis Stevenson in his later Samoan days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: DREAMS OF EXILE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); FRANCE (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); CHILDREN (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); RELIGION (55%); 

PERSON: BAKER, BROCK; BELL, IAN ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON (96%); IAN BELL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



431 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Behind Mexican Rising Lies a Wider Despair

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As you note in "The Other Mexico" (editorial, Jan. 4), the peasant, or campesino uprising in the southern Mexican state of Chiapas does not "herald any wider national insurrection." But neither is it simply, as you phrase it, a protest of "an older Mexico beneath the free-market, modernizing society" of President Salinas de Gortari and his supporters, the rich and well off who dictate economic and political policy. 
 That "other Mexico" includes not merely campesinos from Chiapas to Sonora but most of the urban poor, who survive on meager wages, when they have jobs, and endure unbelievable hardships, even in Mexico City, not infrequently just blocks away from opulent mansions.
Nor is there much evidence to believe that Mr. Salinas's "textbook reforms" will end the terrible inequities in income distribution and wealth in Mexico. To the contrary, the policies you applaud, which have their roots in the 19th century of Porfirio Diaz, who also won the acclaim of powerful Americans, have enshrined social and political distortions in Mexico, the cause of the despair in Chiapas.
The gap between poor and rich is wider today than ever before and getting worse. A decade or so ago, the middle class made up more than 30 percent of the Mexican Republic; today, because of depression and austerity measures adopted, it is no more than one-fifth.
To imply that the error of the Salinas administration lies in its attempt to impose the "Mexican revolution" from above displays ignorance, not only of Mexican history but also of the Constitution of 1917, a charter that challenged the liberal doctrines of David Ricardo and Adam Smith, now so much in vogue. And if, as you maintain, it is in the northern border states that neoliberalism has got the go-ahead, then God help Mexico.
From Tijuana to Matamoros, where more than 2,000 mostly American-owned maquiladoras employ largely young women 14 to 24 years old, paying them 60 cents to $1.20 an hour, more and more of them and their families live in cardboard and plywood shacks lacking electricity and toilets, denied health care and schools for their children.
The uprising in Chiapas may be local, but the underlying feeling of hopelessness, it is well to keep in mind, is widespread in the Mexican Republic.
RAMON EDUARDO RUIZ
Santa Fe, Calif., Jan. 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SALINAS, CA, USA (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH IF AS (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEX); MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SALINAS, CA, USA (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIANS, AMERICAN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); RELIGION (85%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); FAMILY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (70%); CHILDREN (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); 

PERSON: HUMMERT, VIC (REV) ADAM SMITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



432 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IN EUROPE;
ASSAD HOLDS OUT PROSPECT OF NORMAL TIES WITH ISRAEL AFTER TALKS WITH CLINTON

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 16

 BODY:
After more than five hours of talks here with President Clinton, President Hafez al-Assad of Syria today held out the prospect of normal relations with Israel soon and said his country was committed to achieving peace in the Middle East this year.
The statement by Mr. Assad was the most explicit sign yet of Syrian willingness to rejoin peace talks with Israel in earnest. Mr. Clinton said immediately that he hoped the statement "would provoke a positive response in Israel." 
 After two years in which the talks between Israel and Syria have stagnated -- their representatives have not met at all for four months -- American officials said the negotiations could resume in Washington this week.
 
What Happens Next Is Unclear
 But beyond the generally warm aura around their news conference, Mr. Assad and Mr. Clinton offered few details about who would do what and when as a next step toward peace. Though their talks included discussions of Israel's control of the Golan Heights, Syria's support of terrorism, water rights and other issues, the Presidents declined to answer specific questions.
American officials had said they did not expect any breakthroughs, and none were announced. But Mr. Assad, standing beside Mr. Clinton, said flatly after the meeting: "We are ready to sign peace now. In honor we fought, in honor we negotiate, and in honor we shall make peace." [Excerpts from their news conference, page A6.]
 
What Is Meant by Normal?
 The meeting between the two men was their first, and the first between American and Syrian leaders since 1990. Its main purpose was to enlist Syria as a full partner in the peace talks, and United States officials said Mr. Assad's statement had given them hope that this goal has been reached.
Mr. Assad did not spell out what he meant by normal relations with Israel. But his mention of that prospect represented a step toward a commitment that Israeli officials have been waiting to hear before considering a withdrawal from the Golan Heights.
The Israeli Government withheld formal reaction until two United States officials, Dennis Ross of the State Department and Martin Indyk of the National Security Council, go to Jerusalem to provide details about what Mr. Clinton and Mr. Assad said in private. The problem with the public remarks, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said, was that "the tone was too positive to be disappointing, but it was too general to be satisfactory." [Page A6.]
In the words that a senior Clinton Administration official described as "breaking the silence," Mr. Assad spoke repeatedly of his aspirations for peace, but both he and Mr. Clinton were vague on the timing.
"If the leaders of Israel have sufficient courage to respond to this kind of peace, a new era of security and stability with normal peaceful relations shall dawn," President Assad said.
Asked later in the news conference, "Have you decided to sign peace now?" he replied, "Yes, we are ready to sign peace now." But such a peace, he warned, must be one "that secures Arab rights, ends the Israeli occupation and enables our peoples in the region to live in peace, security and dignity."
Until today, the Syrian leader insisted that Israel declare its willingness not only to withdraw from the Golan Heights but also to restore Syrian sovereignty there in return for peace. But he now appears to have moved closer to meeting the longstanding Israeli insistence that Syria acknowledge a willingness for normal relations before Israel agrees to pull back.
 
Clinton's Interpretation
 Indeed, although Mr. Assad did not say so himself, President Clinton said he believed that the Syrian leader had committed himself to seeking a settlement that would provide for open borders, free trade and diplomatic relations, a formula that Israeli leaders have been waiting to hear.
But Mr. Clinton also cautioned, "We did not have any discussions today about the details of any phase of the Middle East peace process, because the other parties are not here present, and it would not have been an appropriate thing to do."
"I believe that President Assad has made a clear, forthright and very important statement on normal, peaceful relations," Mr. Clinton said. "Now, in order to achieve those relations, a peace agreement has to be negotiated in good faith and carried out.
"But this is an important statement -- the first time that there has been a clear expression that there will be a possibility of that sort of relationship."
By meeting with Mr. Assad, whose country remains on a State Department list of terrorist states but who has been eager for close relations with Washington, Mr. Clinton hoped to entice Syria at least to assume a more active role in the peace talks, particularly because the separate accord concluded in September between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization had run into problems.
Flanked by four aides each, the two Presidents met in the Salon des Nations in the International Hotel. The session was scheduled to last two and a half hours, but it ran for almost four and a half, and was followed by a one-on-one meeting between the two leaders that lasted almost an hour.
White House officials said that even those sessions were short by Mr. Assad's standards, and they attached no great significance to the fact that the talks had been prolonged. "It just seemed to develop a rhythm of its own," one official said.
Mr. Clinton got a laugh at the news conference when he was asked about the personal chemistry between the two men and responded: "I had heard a lot about President Assad's legendary stamina in these meetings. He deserves every bit of it."
 
Lockerbie Bombing Mentioned
 Apart from the Middle East peace talks, Mr. Clinton said he had also raised the issue of Syrian support for terrorism. He made it clear that this issue had been among those on which they differed, but said the two countries would establish a formal mechanism, coordinated by Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa, to assess the situation in the hope of resolving their differences.
Mr. Clinton also discussed with Mr. Assad the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1987, an attack that killed all 259 people on the plane and 11 on the ground. The relatives of some survivors believe that Syria was responsible, but Administration officials said Mr. Clinton had made it clear that the United States still believed that the two Libyans charged in the case had carried out the attack, and asked Mr. Assad only to provide information in response to new allegations of Syrian complicity.
Another important issue was the presence of Syrian and Israeli troops in Lebanon. At the news conference, Mr. Clinton said: "President Assad agreed that there should be a successful conclusion to the peace process that left Lebanon free and independent as a nation. So there was no difference between us on the objective."
The meeting appeared at least to have laid a strong foundation for progress on Middle Eastern peace when the talks in Washington resume later this month.
In that respect it resembled other gains won by Mr. Clinton in his trip abroad, in which he and other world leaders mapped out proposals to extend eventual NATO membership to Eastern European nations, won an agreement by Ukraine to surrender its nuclear weapons and developed a closer partnership for economic reform in Russia.
 
Details Remain to Be Defined
 But in each case, a wealth of details remain to be defined.
Mr. Clinton headed home to Washington tonight after a trip that began on Jan. 8 and took him to six countries and meetings with two dozen foreign leaders. In Geneva, as in the five other capitals that Mr. Clinton visited, the mood was generally upbeat.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Assad sat across from one another at a long table, where each was flanked by his foreign minister and interpreters. Mr. Assad chatted jovially with the American delegates for the few moments that reporters were allowed in the room.
The two men obliged a group of photographers with a handshake, but Mr. Clinton wore a serious expression as the talks began and through most of the news conference, presumably not wanting to appear too friendly toward a man whom Washington has accused of human rights abuses and terrorism.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton, his wife Hillary and their daughter Chelsea landed on the White House lawn yesterday. The President returned from a trip that began on Jan. 8 and took him to six European capitals. (Reuters)(pg. A6); After their news conference in Geneva, President Clinton gave President Hafez al-Assad of Syria a hand as they left the podium. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (53%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SYRIA; ISRAEL (97%); SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (53%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); TERRORISM (52%); WATER RIGHTS (52%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); SHIMON PERES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



433 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2825 words

HEADLINE: Tinder in Mexico -- A special report.;
In Remote Mexican Village, Roots of Rebellion Are Bared

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: RIZO DE ORO, Mexico, Jan. 15

 BODY:
There are no guns in this small farming community that pioneers cut from the rain forest some 30 years ago; none, at least, that an outsider is allowed to see.
But signs of the insurrection that has shaken Mexico since the year began are everywhere: in the empty shacks of families who fled their rebel neighbors in terror; in the uniform pants and lace-up boots that have replaced threadbare trousers and ratty sandals; in the swagger of younger men back from their first battles and the prideful things that their fathers say.
 
'Whole World Is Listening'
 "The peasants have awakened and realized that they had to do something in order for them to listen to us," said Carlos Aguilar, 58, who helped to found the community beside a cool mountain stream in the southern state of Chiapas. "Now the whole world is listening." 
 It seems as obvious as it is unspoken that the village rebels were organized and at least partly financed by leaders with a broader political agenda. The central concerns of the men who remain here have to do with their families and their crops and their lack of means to maintain either. The state capital is farther than some of them have traveled; the Government is almost an abstraction.
But even the unwillingness of people in Rizo de Oro to admit being part of the Zapatista National Liberation Army does not keep them from baring the heart of its war on the Government. Here, as in other villages and towns just north of Mexico's border with Guatemala, the ancient struggle of Indian peasants for land and fair treatment has come crashing into the very symbols of hope that President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has worked to create.
The sweeping changes in land-tenure laws by the Government, its free trade agreement with the United States and Canada and even the shortcomings of its huge anti-poverty program, add up to betrayal and nothing more to the people whose wooden shacks dot this lush valley. At a time when economic and political change come to seem almost a constant in some other parts of Mexico, such change still strikes the people who remain here as impossible.
If their poverty seems distant from the lives of many Mexicans in the northern and central regions, where down payments have already been made on Mr. Salinas's promises of greater prosperity, the Zapatistas here also bear a strong resemblance to the striving, self-reliant people in other parts of the country who have drawn hope from the President's programs.
The story of Rizo de Oro is told one way by the families who stayed and another way by those who abandoned their homes on Jan. 6, saying they felt threatened by neighbors who had joined the insurgents. Government officials and others familiar with the area have done little to clarify the accounts.
Still, it is a revealing fragment of the story behind the first Latin American rebel movement to emerge in the post-cold-war era, a force that burst from obscurity in the first moments of the new year to seriously threaten what Mr. Salinas's supporters call his "revolution."
"Unlike the guerrillas in Guatemala, they are not seeking out bases of support among the campesinos, but coming up from them," said Andres Aubry, a French-born anthropologist who has lived and worked in Chiapas for the last two decades, contrasting the leftist rebels who have fought the Guatemalan Government for 32 years with the insurgents who take their name from Emiliano Zapata, the peasant leader of Mexico's 1910 revolution. "In that, they are like Zapata himself."
 
The Rebellion
Guerrillas Strike, Then Fall Back
 In the early hours of their rebellion, the Zapatistas seized the state's second-largest city, San Cristobal de las Casas and three sizable towns: Ocosingo, Altamirano and Las Margaritas.
Since retreating from those places and three more towns through which they passed, the insurgents have for the most part faded back into the remote villages and encampments from which they came. The fighting, in which at least 100 people and perhaps many more have been killed, has died down sharply since the Government declared a unilateral cease-fire on Wednesday.
The rebel leaders, who remain mostly unidentified, did not immediately respond to Mr. Salinas's offer of peace talks and a pardon for repentant peasant rebels.
[The President expanded his offer in a nationally televised speech, saying he would call a special session of Congress to pass a blanket amnesty for all those who committed violent actions in Chiapas before 11 A.M. on Jan. 16. He said subsequent violence would not be covered.]
Neither the rebels nor their commanders appear to be holding as adamantly as before to the idea that violence is the only solution to the problems of Mexico's impoverished Indians.
In a communique dated Jan. 6, the Indigenous Revolutionary Clandestine Committee of the Zapatista General Command described its central objective as "making known to the Mexican people and the rest of the world the miserable conditions in which millions of Mexicans, especially we indigenous people, live and die."
Yet as thousands have fled Zapatista strongholds in the Lacandon rain forest and the highlands to its north and west, and as the rebels have begun to seize privately owned ranches in the area, it has become clear that bringing about a real peace will be far more complex than simply pacifying the region.
The insurgents' complaints of deep social inequities and a lack of democracy suggests they will press for political changes and new forms of economic aid. But the bitter divisions the war has already wrought suggest even broad reforms along those lines might prove insufficient.
"They might be my father, they might be my brother, but what they are doing is wrong," said Alfredo Aguilar, a slight, bedraggled man of 33 who was evacuating his family on Monday from Cruz del Rosario, another hamlet that was taken over by its resident Zapatistas.
 
High Hopes
Building a Home In the Rain Forest
 No one can agree on the date Rizo de Oro was founded, and no one seems to recall why the 33 farmers who came to the valley three decades ago decided to name it ripple or curl of gold. What is not in dispute is the hope with which they began carving a home from the dense forest.
"We thought it was a very pretty place here, that it would serve for us," said Caralampio Aguilar, whose family name is a common one in the area. "We did not realize that the land was so dry."
Many of the men were mixed-blood descendants of Tojolabal Mayan Indians who had worked together on a big farm in what was a common form of indentured servitude.
The Government, with little notion of the fragility of rain forest soils, encouraged what it called "the opening of the agricultural frontier." Thousands of peasants moved onto public property, and in trying to solve land problems in more populated regions of the country, officials pushed the problems toward the impoverished southern border where they would turn more violent.
Within a few years, the men said, their land began to lose its fertility. Of the 50 acres that each farmer was allotted as a member of the new ejido, the state-owned communal farm created under laws that emerged from Zapata's rebellion, few can still coax crops from even half that soil. A plot that produced 20 or 30 sacks of coffee years ago might now yield fewer than 5, many farmers in the area said.
The law permitted landholders to hand down their properties to their children, but not to sell them. Faced with dividing their plots among six or eight children, farmers from Rizo de Oro and nearby San Carlos del Rio asked the Government to expand their ejidos. After years of pleading and paperwork, the request was denied.
"We have struggled and petitioned to make our ejido better," said Hector Alvarez, 19, as he looked out at the trim hedges of hibiscus and bougainvillaea that set one weathered shack off from another. "But they do not hear us."
 
Hopes Dashed
Deepening Mistrust Of Official Efforts
 The economic crisis that exploded in 1982 when Mexico defaulted on its foreign debt payments forced the Government to halt big oil exploration and hydroelectric projects that had been a major source of jobs in Chiapas.
The same year, tens of thousands of refugees began to flood into the area from Guatemala as the army there razed villages and killed thousands of peasants in its war against leftist guerrillas. More than 250 refugees settled in Rizo de Oro, almost doubling its population and bringing low-paid competition for day-labor jobs on larger farms.
The next two governors of Chiapas, Absalon Castellanos, a retired army general, and Patrocinio Gonzalez Garrido, earned reputations for brutality with Mexican and international human rights groups for the way they handled land seizures and protests by Indian and peasant groups.
The peasants did not forget them. General Castellanos was kidnapped from his ranch near Las Margaritas on the first day of the Zapatista rebellion and has not been heard from since; Mr. Gonzalez Garrido, whom Mr. Salinas had brought to Mexico City as his interior minister, was ousted Monday.
In conversations with about two dozen Zapatistas and an equal number of refugees from Rizo de Oro, none spoke of more than run-of-the-mill mistreatment by the authorities. But by the time that Mr. Salinas's anti-poverty initiative, the National Solidarity Program, began to pour aid into Chiapas in 1991, the men who would become rebels had begun to see the few Government projects almost as scars on their land.
"The children are growing up and the land is going down and there is no remedy, no cure," said Caralampio Aguilar, 60, the village's reputed rebel leader and the brother of Carlos Aguilar. The eldest of six brothers, Caralampio said he has struggled for years with his wife and family to make a life here. "We see all that work of many years. She is dead, and I am old and we are still as badly off as ever."
With contributions from seven neighboring communities, six miles of dirt road were built from Poza Rica, a town connected by several more hours of washboard dirt road to the two-lane rural highway that leads to Comitan de Dominguez, the closest city. But the effort -- like that required for a few modest school rooms, a water tank and shrinking agricultural loans -- left deep reserves of bitterness because of what the men described as the stinginess, bureaucratic obstacles and political motivation behind the Government's help.
Two years ago, some of the men in town stopped voting. According to those who fled, some began to form what they described as a local chapter of a group called the Regional Organization of Independent Peoples, or Orpi by its Spanish acronym. They criticized the North American Free Trade Agreement and Mr. Salinas's plan to give peasants permanent title to their ejido plots, the refugees said, and opposed the Government's aid.
"They said they were gifts, like sweet bullets, so that we would be calm and not organize ourselves," one refugee, Ramiro Mendez, said.
 
Seeds of Violence
Shadowy Origins Of Rebel Movement
 According to Jose Roberto Alvarez, 25, and other refugees, it was Caralampio Aguilar who brought the seed of the Zapatista army from another ejido, El Hermosillo, where he had supposedly gone to take Communion.
They said that neither the Roman Catholic deacon there nor the Marist priest who sometimes visited Rizo de Oro would give Communion to villagers who supported the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party. But the refugees said they had only suspicions, not proof, that the two men were involved with the Zapatistas. Some of the men also said they suspected that Guatemalan refugees might have helped the rebels, a charge that officials of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees strongly denied.
Although their stories could not be confirmed, separate groups of refugees in the city of Comitan and the village of Venustiano Carranza gave similar accounts of the Zapatistas' emergence, and their stories coincided broadly with those of refugees from three other villages in the area.
Government officials now say the Zapatista army grew most directly from a tiny and now-defunct guerrilla force called the Armed Forces of National Liberation and a larger, regional political group called the Emiliano Zapata Independent National Peasant Alliance, or Anciez, which went underground last spring. But peasants from three other villages besides Rizo de Oro said the Zapatistas in their villages also organized first in different legal peasant groups that may not have been tied directly to the rebel movement.
Jorge Morales, the son of a landowner, said that long before most people in Rizo de Oro knew anything about a Zapatista army, Caralampio Aguilar "began to invite people into his home, in a nice way, and he began to put things into them."
On the instructions of Mr. Aguilar, the future Zapatistas built a wooden "safe house" beside the house in which his family lived and a radio was installed inside. Strangers whose names the refugees never learned came to the house, and meetings and dances were held there frequently.
Some of the men sold their cows to buy .22-caliber rifles. Mr. Mendez said the youngest Aguilar brother, Cresencio, got drunk and told of three-day military training sessions at camps in the mountains.
 
Call to Arms
Guerrillas Summon Peasants to Battle
 Several of the people who fled the Zapatistas said they complained of the rebels' preparations last year to Romeo Suarez Culebro, Mayor of Las Margaritas, the municipality that encompasses Rizo de Oro. Two refugees from other villages said they had done the same, but the Mayor, a representative of Mr. Salinas's party who was at a New Year's Eve party at the Lion's Club when rebels seized his town, angrily denied this.
Nearly shouting, he said, "The peasants never complained about this!"
In an account that people from other villages seemed almost to repeat, the refugees said about 14 younger men from Zapatista families left Rizo de Oro on the night of Dec. 30. Their fathers all but moved into the safe house. The men returned on the night of Jan. 4, saying they had participated in the taking of Las Margaritas.
"They went to the safe house and told about what they had done," Jose Roberto Alvarez said. "Then at about 2 in the morning, the dance began."
On the morning of Jan. 6, Caralampio Aguilar blew a hollowed cow's horn to call the men of the village to a meeting in the collapsing, tin-roofed structure that serves as the ejido hall. Four men with guns stood behind him.
"They said they were ordered to report publicly on the war they had provoked and to invite us to join," Mr. Mendez recalled as two dozen other refugees huddled around him in a makeshift shelter in Venustiano Carranza. Then another man spoke, Jose Roberto Alvarez said: "He said the war had begun and we all had to participate because it was for the good of the people."
 
Aftermath
Some Families Flee In Fear of Violence
 After a short meeting at the edge of the road, 34 of the men decided instead to take their families and leave. The families of 21 Zapatistas stayed. Although the refugees said their lives had not been threatened directly, they felt as though they had. Rolando Mendez, a shy, 20-year-old man, went for his wife, Carmen, at the home of her father, one of the Aguilar brothers.
"When I said I was not going to stay with them," Mr. Mendez said, almost whispering, "they said they were going to keep her."
Many of the men who left Rizo de Oro appeared to view their Government with resentment like that of the rebels, and to see their future with similar despair. The difference, said Ramiro Mendez, was that they did not see guns as a solution.
"Because I have only 50 acres and five children, it does not mean that I want to die."
On Saturday, a sentry in an olive-drab uniform stood at the end of the road as visitors to the village arrived; all of the elder men in the town were said to be out working in the fields, one young man said.
The same explanation was given when three reporters and a photographer first came to the valley on Tuesday. But after repeated requests, six hours of waiting and what appeared to be long meetings in the safe house, a dozen men marched out in single file, Caralampio Aguilar at their lead.
Asked about the refugees, he said vaguely that they had fled out of fear; he did not directly associate either the fear or the men who stayed in the town with the insurgency. But asked if he and the others had been sought out by the rebels, he said, "It was we who went to look for them."
As the sun set, the pretense began to fade a bit more. As he addressed a question about how the rebellion might end and what might happen to the village, Carlos Aguilar seemed close to tears.
"At least they have heard us," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alfredo Aguilar and his family preparing to leave Cruz del Rosario, like others who fled villages in Chiapas state after the insurgency there. (Photographs by Liliana Nieto Del Rio for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Map: Rizo de Oro has signs of dissatisfaction, and of insurrection. (The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Graph: "A Profile of Poverty" shows conditions in Las Margaritas and spending in 1993 by the Government's antipoverty program. (Source: Mexican Census; Mexican Social Development Ministry)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

CITY: ROSARIO, ARGENTINA (59%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEX); MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); ROSARIO, ARGENTINA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LAND USE POLICIES ; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (85%); MOUNTAINS (78%); FARM LABOR (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MEN (75%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); 

PERSON: SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES); GOLDEN, TIM

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



434 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-8
 
SYRIA UPBEAT ON TIES WITH ISRAEL
After talks with President Clinton, President Hafez al-Assad of Syria held out the prospect of normalizing relations with Israel soon and said he was committed to reaching Middle East peace this year. A1 

ISRAELI LEADERS UNDER PRESSURE
News analysis: The Syrian President's statements that he is ready for peace turned the spotlight to Israel, putting pressure on its leaders to make a move in the talks. A6
 
MEXICO'S PEASANTS FIND A VOICE
In Mexican villages, the longstanding struggle of Indian peasants for land and fair treatment has come into conflict with the Mexican President's plan for progress. A1
 
RUSSIAN REFORMER RESIGNS
Yegor T. Gaidar, the architect of free market reforms in Russia, resigned, citing Government decisions that he said contradicted his efforts to stabilize the economy. A1
 
ITALY'S PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED
Italy's President dissolved Parliament, paving the way for early elections and the first major shake-up in Italy's postwar leadership. A3
 
BUSH PRESSES CHINA ON RIGHTS
Former President George Bush, on a private visit to China, told leaders that progress on human rights is needed to keep trade privileges with the United States. A2
 
SOUTH AFRICAN GROUP ENDS FIGHT
The militant Pan-Africanist Congress said that it was laying down its arms and ending a series of attacks, paving the way for it to participate in South African elections. A2
 
BOSNIA AIDED ON ARMS
Bosnia's mostly Muslim Army has obtained Islamic aid to buy arms from the Serbs, an official said. The sellers wanted to maintain fighting between Muslims and the Serbs' other enemies, the Croats. A3
 
A REBUFF ON HAITI
The United States rejected a call from the exiled President of Haiti, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, for foreign Governments to help restore him to power. A5
 
Thousands in France protested a move for aid to church schools. A3
 
Dover Journal: European unity brings continental contraband. A4
 
National A10-14, A18
 
WEAPONS SATELLITE IS QUESTIONED
A satellite system created to help fight a nuclear war with the Soviet Union is being readied for launching, even as questions mount in Congress about its cost and need. A1
 
DALLAS RE-MAPS THE OLD WEST
Dallas is on a mission to redraw forever the boundary of the American frontier with a bronze rendering of a 19th-century cattle drive. The trouble is, detractors point out that Dallas was never a cowtown. A1
 
BUG SPRAY IN AIRPLANES
The Clinton Administration is planning to discourage governments overseas from requiring that jetliners arriving at their airports be sprayed with insecticide. A10
 
PARENTS FEUD OVER CHILD'S ESTATE
A convicted child molester who deserted his wife and daughter and owes thousands of dollars in child support is asking a court for half of the estate of his estranged daughter, who died last summer. A10
 
EVIDENCE FROM CULT'S ASHES
The trial of 11 Branch Davidians charged with the murder of four Federal agents has produced much physical evidence and vastly different interpretations of what the evidence proves. A12
 
UNITING AGAINST HEALTH PLAN
Critics of President Clinton's health care plan are still not sure what they want, but they have found a unifying way to argue that his proposal goes too far. A14
 
DOLE WAVERS ON CLINTON INQUIRY
The Senate Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, said he might drop his call for a Congressional investigation into President Clinton's land deals, depending on whom Attorney General Janet Reno names as a special prosecutor. A14
 
The Army said they have indentified some Korean War remains. A12
 
Settlement in abuse case raises question of liability. A12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
IN YOUR F-F-F-FACE
Tears froze and glittered like diamonds, and all most people in the New York region could think about, as the coldest weekend in years burned across their faces, was a place to be warm. A1
 
GIULIANI PLEADS FOR BLACK TRUST
At a ceremony honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani made an impassioned plea to black New Yorkers, seeking to assure them that "there is nothing to fear" in his mayoralty. A1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
 
Richard Foreman, avant-garde playwright. C11
 
The Talk of Hollywood. C11
 
Book critics' nominees. C18
 
Film: "Death Wish V." C18
 
Music: "Valentino" opera. C11
 
The Gruppen chamber series. C11
 
Leon Fleisher plays Korngold. C15
 
Meditations, a reggae trio. C15
 
Dance: City Ballet, in two eras. C16
 
Books: "Double Lives"; making treason fashionable. C18
 
Sports C1-10
 
Baseball: Off-season soul-searching by Yanks' Abbott. C3
 
Basketball: Nets beat Jazz. C5
 
Indiana beats Michigan. C4
 
Heisman winner back on the court. C4
 
Columns: Anderson on Jack Pardee. C6
 
Football: Cowboys defeat Packers. C7
 
Montana leads Chiefs over Oilers. C1
 
Giants say they were tired against 49ers. C7
 
Hockey: Rangers beat the Blackhawks. C9
 
Olympics: Harding's lawyer denies she was involved. C1
 
U.S.O.C. distances itself from Harding. C8
 
Tennis: Capriati hangs up racquet for now. C2
 
Track and Field: State may oust city's school athletes. C4
 
Fashion Page B7
 
Obituaries A15
 
Dr. Bernard D. Davis, a Harvard Medical School professor.
 
Business Digest D1
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Mr. Gore's video vision.
 
Toying with violence in Albany.
 
The meaning of "choice."
 
Bolster the Election Commission.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: While Rome burns.
 
William Safire: Will versus paper.
 
Daniel Talbot: Use junk to bankroll art.
 
Bridge C18
 
Chronicle B6
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INSECTICIDES (75%); ARMS TRADE (71%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (61%); CHILD ABUSE (60%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



435 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Internet Users Get Access To S.E.C. Filings Fee-Free

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

 BODY:
In a two-year experiment that begins today, documents filed electronically to the Securities and Exchange Commission from public companies will be available to users of Internet, a global network of computer networks.
Documents obtainable on the service include annual reports, 10-K filings, proxy statements and other information valued by traders and investors. These documents are already available electronically through commercial data suppliers, including Mead Data Central Inc. of Dayton, Ohio, but the new Internet service is the first to make them available without additional charges. 
 The new service is the most ambitious experiment so far by the Clinton Administration to make much Government information widely available to the public at minimum cost. Although access to Internet itself can be costly, millions of people can tap into it through commercial, Government and educational computer networks. Once a computer user is connected to Internet, a giant global network that links millions of large and small computers so they can share information, there is typically no extra fee for document transfers.
 
Financed by Taxes
 "We have a policy that Government information ought to be made available at only the marginal cost to provide the information," said Tom Kalil, who coordinates science and technology policy at the White House's National Economic Council. "We view this type of information dissemination as one of the ways we can address the info 'haves and have-nots' issue. Since taxpayers have already paid for it, the idea of making it available was appealing."
The cost of providing the S.E.C. data to Internet users is being underwritten by a National Science Foundation grant to the New York University Business School. In turn, the contract for operation of the computer data bases is with a not-for-profit company, the Internet Multicasting Service of Washington.
 
Coordination With S.E.C.
 Carl Malamud, the principal of Internet Multicasting, said the S.E.C. is charging $78,000 a year to supply his company with data tapes of each day's filings. The fee, he said, basically covers the cost of the tapes and messenger fees. Mr. Malamud said the S.E.C. has projected that as many as 50 gigabytes of data -- 50 billion characters of information -- will be supplied each year. An average S.E.C. document contains about 3,000 characters, he said.
Mr. Malamud said that although they offered the same raw data, his Government-subsidized service is not in conflict with commercial information services like Mead Data. In return for its higher fees, Mead Data provides search software that makes it easier to find a particular document, and it guarantees its customers access to the data within minutes of the time the document is filed.
"Our data is 24 hours later than theirs, and we are not massaging the data to the extent that Mead is," Mr. Malamud said, although a goal of the experiment is to fashion easier search and retrieval mechanisms for the raw S.E.C. data.
Also, only 50 Internet users can gain access to the S.E.C. data base at one time, he said, cautioning that "if you were betting your business on getting a document right away, you shouldn't bet on us."
Computer users with access to Internet can get more information by sending an electronic-mail message to "mail[at]town.hall.org" requesting help. Those without Internet access can telephone (202) 628-2044.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (85%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (85%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); INTERNET LEXISNEXIS GROUP (85%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); INTERNET SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SCIENCE POLICY (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (71%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



436 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Father Returns To Claim Estate Of Child He Left

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WARWICK, R.I., Jan. 16

 BODY:
A 38-year-old man who left his wife and daughter more than a decade ago and owes tens of thousands of dollars in child support is asking a court for half the estate of his daughter, who died last summer at the age of 15.
The father, James E. Brindamour, is seeking half of the $350,000 an insurance company paid after his daughter, Colleen, was killed when a pickup in which she was a passenger skidded off a road and crashed into a tree. 
 The money came from a settlement in a lawsuit brought by Mr. Brindamour's estranged wife, Rose Brindamour, against the driver of the truck and its owner.
 
'It's Immoral'
 But Mrs. Brindamour, a nurse's aide, says her husband does not deserve to share in the settlement. "I don't want him to have a dime of her money," she said in an interview today at her home here. "He's trying to get half and then use part of the proceeds to pay me off. It's immoral."
Mrs. Brindamour says her husband owes her $69,000 in child support payments. Mr. Brindamour's lawyer calculates that his client owes $15,000 to $20,000.
On Friday, about 20 of Colleen's high school classmates picketed the Kent County Courthouse as lawyers for the Brindamours met with Judge Francis Darigan of Superior Court, who set a hearing for Jan. 28.
Under Rhode Island law, if a child's death results from a wrongful action, the parents can file claims based on the extent to which the child's death affects them. Under that standard, Mrs. Brindamour said, her absent husband is not entitled to any money.
But Mr. Bridamour says that despite his lack of contact with his daughter and his admitted failure to pay child support, as her biological father he is entitled to half her estate.
"I wanted to see my daughter over the years, but Rose prevented me from doing so," Mr. Brindamour, a machine-tool operator, said, an assertion Mrs. Brindamour denied.
Howard I. Lipsey, a Rhode Island judge who is chairman of the Family Court Committee of the Family Law Section of the American Bar Association, said Mr. Brindamour "has a prima facie right to get the money," but that Mrs. Brindamour is raising new legal questions. He added that whatever the outcome of the case, Mr. Brindamour would be required to pay all the child support he owed.
The battle over the estate began a month after Colleen's death, when Mrs. Brindamour sued the driver of the pickup and his mother, who owned the truck.
A few weeks later, on the advice of her lawyer, she filed for divorce. She had not filed for divorce earlier, she said, because "I just forgot about it" and there was not enough money to hire a lawyer.
Since shortly after her husband left her, Mrs. Brindamour has lived with a man named Gary Gallagher. Colleen's friends said she had referred to Mr. Gallagher as "my father."
Several months before Colleen's death, a judge told Mr. Brindamour he would be put in prison if he did not pay $8,000 of what he owed. Mr. Brindamour, who was unemployed at the time, fled the state. In late November, he returned to Rhode Island, surrendered and spent a week in jail. He was released after paying $1,000 to his wife.
Since Dec. 20, Mr. Brindamour has been paying the $75-a-week support he was ordered to begin paying in 1983.
 
'He's Not a Monster'
 Mr. Brindamour's lawyer, Dennis Baluch, said his client had a history of alcohol problems, but added, "He's not a monster by any stretch of the imagination."
He said his client asserted that until three years ago he had paid his child support in cash and that he owed no more than $20,000.
Mrs. Brindamour said she had received about $650 in 10 years.
According to court records, Colleen was 4 when her parents married, and the marriage lasted only about eight months. In July 1983, Mrs. Brindamour was granted a restraining order against her husband, who she said had kicked her and threatened to kill her.
In 1989, Mr. Brindamour pleaded no contest to sexually molesting an 11-year-old relative in Rhode Island and was given an eight-year suspended sentence.
Mrs. Brindamour said she planned to use the settlement to finish nursing school and have an operation to reverse the tubal ligation she had undergone a few months before her daughter's death.
"I would like to try to have a baby and try to start over," she said. She said she also wanted to use $8,000 to buy a stone marker for Colleen's grave, which is now marked by a wooden cross.

GRAPHIC: Photos: James E. Brindamour being confronted by friends of his late daughter as he arrived last week at court in Warwick, R.I., where he is seeking a share of her estate. (Kathy Porchers/The Providence Journal); Colleen Brindamour, right, was 15 when she was killed in a pickup truck accident last summer. (Frieda Squires)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARWICK (RI); UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; SUITS AND LITIGATION CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); FAMILY (89%); FAMILY COURTS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); 

PERSON: BRINDAMOUR, JAMES E; BRINDAMOUR, COLLEEN

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



437 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
'Reinventing' New York, From a Strategist's View

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts 

 BODY:
ATTEMPTS at "reinventing Rudy" into a gentler politician may have been overtaken by the crush of events that have already tested his administration during its first two weeks in office. But David Osborne, the national guru of "reinventing government," says that the Mayor can still revive his campaign agenda of fulfilling and enforcing the social contract.
"Do you have a choice?" said Mr. Osborne, co-author with Ted Gaebler of "Reinventing Government" (Addison-Wesley, 1992), which was written for public managers but which was seized as a largely nonideological bible by aspiring politicians. 
 "You've got a $2 billion deficit after how many years of struggling to patch together budgets in a recession?" he said of the budget gap projected for the next fiscal year. "Everyone I talk to in New York City says they're thinking about moving away, that the quality of life is going rapidly downhill. So, can the city afford not to do it?"
Mr. Osborne acknowledges, though, that his prescriptions for delivering basic city services more efficiently will be harder to do in New York.
"It's harder to do in New York than in a smaller place and in a place where politics is more rational and where corruption is less of a problem and you tend to need more red tape or think you do," he said the other day from one of those smaller places, his home in Essex, Mass., population 3,000. "And in New York, the unions tend to be more powerful."
Mr. Osborne conferred twice with Mr. Giuliani, at his request, before the election. Since November, responding to a request from recruiters for the new Mayor, he submitted the names of about two dozen heroes of the reinventing government crusade as possible appointees. None, he said, has been given major jobs so far (although the Mayor, his Parks Commissioner, Henry Stern, and Public Advocate Mark Green, weigh in publicly with proposed reforms).
The relative inexperience in city government of Mr. Giuliani's appointees remains the administration's greatest vulnerability. But while the Mayor has a lot to learn, he and his deputies also may be emboldened by their naivete. As Felix G. Rohatyn said when he resigned as chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation after nearly two decades of nudging the bureaucracy, the job demanded a naif who still harbors illusions about what can be accomplished.
The challenges are daunting. Rikers Island has a higher number of admissions than the City University system (86,000 detentions at the city jail last year compared with 28,000 freshmen entering all of the university's colleges). The disparity between the higher infant mortality rates among blacks and the lower rates among whites is widening.
In 1991, the most recent year for which comparable figures are available, New York City spent $193 for every $1,000 in personal income earned by city residents -- 45 percent more than the $133 average for all local governments. (More than half the $193 is spent on operating budgets for education, social services, housing and health).
Because the city collected only about $100 per $1,000 in personal income from Federal and state aid, bond issues and various fees -- a marginally higher figure than the national average -- the difference was derived from taxes. A City Planning Department analysis found that city taxes took $96 for every $1,000 of personal income, more than twice the national average.
"In New York, there are pockets of experimentation here and there, but not across the board," said Mr. Osborne, who heads the nonprofit, Washington-based Alliance for Redesigning Government. "New York does quite a lot of performance measurement, but it's not used to drive decisions. Most of the principles in our book have been used in one place or another in New York City government and have worked, but no one has tried to revamp the city's management."
Among the success stories he cites are Operation Scorecard, which measures street cleanliness, and the Sanitation Department's vehicle repair program.
Mr. Osborne disagrees with the notion of radically "disinventing" government -- divesting itself of responsibility for certain services.
"Government's most fundamental role is to steer society, to make sure that problems get solved," he said, adding, though, that the business community and neighborhood organizations often can deliver services and solve problems more efficiently.
What he proposes is "entrepreneurial government," which he defines as a systematic strategy to imaginatively improve efficiency and effectiveness. Competition with private companies. More aggressive management. Accountability. Incentives. Decentralization. Community empowerment. Regionalism.
New York may be unique, but not ungovernable, Mr. Osborne said, and its size is not the biggest obstacle.
"The single most important variable in determining whether a community can reinvent its government is: Is it a necessity, is there a crisis? When I listen to New Yorkers talk about life in their city, there's a crisis. The second big condition you need to make major change is leadership, and just the fact that New Yorkers elected a Republican Mayor says they want big changes."
Would he single out one goal? "I would tell Mayor Giuliani not to think that way, that's what all the politicians say," Mr. Osborne said. "I would say, stop and develop a strategy that has things building on each other and puts the right people in charge of the right pieces. Otherwise, politicians produce a lot of motion by the time they're running for re-election, but it hasn't added up to a lot."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITIES (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); WRITERS (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (64%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; OSBORNE, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



438 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The architect of Russia's free-market changes said he was quitting the Government because he did not think it would pursue a sensible economic policy. Yegor T. Gaidar's announcement came a day after President Clinton left Moscow, carrying assurances that economic changes would continue. [Page A1.] 
 Japan has prepared a plan to open its public-sector construction market for bidding by foreign companies, making it less likely that Washington will impose trade sanctions on Thursday. [D1.]
A German industrial giant, Metallgesellschaft A.G., was saved from bankruptcy as a rescue package was hammered out in talks with creditors of the metals conglomerate. [D3.]
When Mobil and Exxon effectively forced out the president of Tonen, a large, publicly traded Japanese oil refiner, it created a mild sensation. The conflict seems to represent two starkly different philosophies of investing. [D2.]
The United States plans measures to discourage foreign governments from requiring that planes arriving at their airports be sprayed with insecticide. [A10.]
 
The Economy
Al Gore may be only No. 2 at the White House, but he appears very much to be the Virtual President of the electronic Commonwealth of Cyberspace. As the point man in the Administration's effort to build a national data highway, he also became the first Vice President to hold a live interactive news conference on an international computer network. [D1.]
Documents filed electronically to the S.E.C. from public companies will be available to users of Internet, in a two-year experiment that begins today. [D2.]
 
Companies
Eugene M. Freedman's rocky three-year reign at Coopers & Lybrand reached a finale in an unsuccessful campaign to convince the firm that it needed him to lead it for another three years. [D1.]
United Asset Management offers hard cash -- and an immediate windfall -- to the small and highly profitable money management firms that it is seeking to acquire. [D1.]
G.M. and the United Automobile Workers reached a tentative agreement that may end a six-day strike at a Louisiana plant. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
The rapid development of electronic information technologies has placed the American newspaper industry at a crossroads. Newspaper companies are racing toward electronic media of all kinds in an attempt to pre-empt the competition. [D1.]
Oracle will announce a new version of its data base management software that will provide multimedia services like movies on demand. It is also expected to detail joint-development deals with The Washington Post and Capital Cities/ABC. [D7.]
The new mission of Conde Nast's president is to develop a presence in the Pacific for the magazine publisher. The company is looking into licensing possibilities in several countries and is planning a Singapore edition of Australian Vogue. [D6.]
Some small but significant convulsions were felt last week in New York's shrinking book publishing industry. [D6.]
The talk of the network TV industry is not the next sitcom or cop drama, but Fox Broadcasting's stunning raid on CBS's NFL franchise. Bill Carter: Television. [D6.]
Three of the largest beer marketers have made big alterations in their agency rosters. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
The Patent and Trademark Office will allow inventors, for the first time, to fax many of the documents required in application filings. The change is supposed to clear the way for inventors to file by computer modem. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
Beta Well Services appears to be losing the revenues from Russian oilfield operations. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D4.]


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: G1A (FRA) (71%); WPO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (71%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: METALLGESELLSCHAFT AG (71%); GEA GROUP AG (71%); UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (53%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); ABC INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (76%); STRIKES (75%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (62%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); INSECTICIDES (53%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



439 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Man at The Side of (Not Behind) Whitman

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 14

 BODY:
John R. Whitman is not shy. It turns out his Greta Garbo performance during his wife's gubernatorial campaign was part of a political strategy and not at all reflective of a retiring personality.
Sitting with his wife in her transition office, sipping Diet Pepsi and laughing freely at his own jokes, Mr. Whitman talked without prodding about Christine Todd Whitman, her campaign, the next four years and his much-discussed role in it all. In those long, weary months on the trail, Mr. Whitman, 49 years old, steadfastly avoided the spotlight, professing his desire not to become a public figure. He did so, he says, because he wanted to avoid becoming an issue. But now the campaign is over. 
 "I have to now sort of admit that I exist," he said.
"I've been trying to deny it for 20 years," joked his wife.
Mr. Whitman, who is a financial consultant, is his wife's closest adviser and the core of a close-knit family that surrounds the Governor-elect. There are her children, Kate, 16 years old, and Taylor, 14, both attending boarding school in Massachusetts. There is her brother, Webster B. (Danny) Todd, a Montana rancher and former New Jersey Assemblyman who ran the day-to-day operations of the Whitman campaign until he was moved aside in favor of a political consultant, Edward J. Rollins Jr. Mr. Todd was the visible family member, a rugged, colorful character who wore ascots and cowboy boots, dished out homey quotes and snarled at reporters.
 
Subject of Questions and Rumors
 But it was the elusive Mr. Whitman who was the subject of the most questions, and was the focus of rumors that he was the real engine behind his wife's campaign.
"The reports of my influence were greatly exaggerated," Mr. Whitman said last week during a 40-minute conversation as peppered with the plural "we" as with the singular "I."
Christine Todd Whitman, who takes office Tuesday as the first female governor of New Jersey, is the product of a politically prominent New Jersey family. Her father, the late Webster B. Todd, was a builder whose projects included Rockefeller Center and Radio City Music Hall as well as a powerful figure in the state and national Republican parties. Her mother, the late Eleanor Schley Todd, was head of the New Jersey Federation of Republican Women.
Mr. Whitman's family was also immersed in politics. His father was a circuit court judge in New York. His grandfather, Charles S. Whitman Sr., was Governor of New York from 1914 to 1916.
Mr. Whitman, a Vietnam veteran who was twice awarded the Bronze Star for valor in combat, said he knew of his wife's ambitions when he married her. "Our marriage vows could have said in sickness and in health and in politics, given Christie's family tradition and mine," he said.
They appear to be a close couple. They finish each other's sentences. She frowns slightly when he says something potentially embarrassing and firmly reminds him that she can speak for herself whenever he starts to define her role in promoting New Jersey.
Mr. Whitman has the unrestrained manner of the truly confident. His criticism of the Florio administration, which he described as deadly to New Jersey's economy, allows no softening for the defeated. He cracks jokes and laughs wholeheartedly at them. One example: "I said to her if she divorces me, I get half of New Jersey. She said, 'I'll gerrymander it.' "
During a photo shoot, Mr. Whitman playfully wraps his wife in a suggestive embrace. She swats at his hands and tells him, laughingly, to stop.
Mr. Whitman formerly worked in the venture capital unit at Citicorp and was chairman and chief executive officer of Prudential-Bache Interfunding, a group that financed leveraged buyouts. In 1992 he started his own investment consulting business, Broken Bridge Inc., in which he advises companies on how to obtain financing. He declined to name any of his clients.
 
Investments Pay Off
 The Whitmans are wealthy and got wealthier through Mr. Whitman's financial dealings on Wall Street in the late 1980's and early 1990's, according to their financial records. In 1990 the couple reported income of more than $4 million. A large chunk of that came from the sale of stock.
In 1992, the Whitmans reported more than $3.5 million in income. Mr. Whitman made nearly $268,000 from a profit-sharing program at Citicorp Capital Investors Limited and $1.5 million from his own business. The couple also made $1.8 million from the sale of government bonds and stocks.
It was, in part, this knack for financial dealings that Mr. Whitman worried would be somehow used against his wife by the Florio campaign.
"They could have brought up the fact that I've obviously done very well," he said. "I've worked on Wall Street -- a whole bunch of things people can say were unpopular. I could be an example of the excesses of the 80's."
 
Matters of Speculation
 The Florio campaign strategy, as interpreted by Mr. Whitman, was to take the focus off Mr. Florio and his $2.8 billion tax increase. The Whitmans said they wanted to keep voters focused on Mr. Florio, and the choice offered by Mrs. Whitman.
"Nobody was going to vote for me," Mr. Whitman said, making it clear that the campaign wanted to insure that no one voted against him.
"We wanted to be sure it was clear that it was Jim Florio and Christie Whitman. It wasn't Christie and her alter ego and Svengali, John."
But Mr. Whitman's stealth performance did not keep observers from both parties from speculating about his influence over the campaign. Mrs. Whitman's impressive, though unsuccessful, 1990 race against United States Senator Bill Bradley was run almost exclusively by the Whitmans with help from Mr. Todd. Mr. Whitman acted as the finance manager in that campaign.
Given Mr. Whitman's financial background, pundits speculated that Mrs. Whitman's surprising proposal to slash the state income tax 30 percent over three years held more of the husband's fingerprints than the wife's, especially since Mrs. Whitman had earlier dismissed talk of a tax cut as a "cynical" election-year ploy.
 
Taking No Role
 Both Whitmans said sexism and egotism fed the rumors of his exaggerated role in the campaign.
"A lot of that came from the inside people," Mrs. Whitman said, referring to fellow Republicans. "I think it grated on some of them that a woman was saying, 'No, we're not going to do that.' They said it has to be the men behind her who don't know what they're doing, because this is such a good idea of mine."
Mr. Whitman said he will have no role -- official or otherwise -- during Mrs. Whitman's governorship. If Mrs. Whitman asks for his opinion on an issue, he said, he will give it. Otherwise, he said, he will stay out of state affairs.
"I will carry on my business, which is an investment business and consulting business, with a very careful eye to not doing business with anyone who has something to do with state government," he said.
Mr. Whitman runs his business from Pontefract, the couple's 237-acre farm in Somerset County. Mrs. Whitman has said she plans to use Drumthwacket, the governor's mansion, during the week but said the family will remain at home for the foreseeable future.
 
Sharing Opinions
 Mr. Whitman knows his business is likely to come under close scrutiny as he begins life in the biggest public fishbowl in New Jersey. During the campaign, the couple was reluctant to release their tax returns, but relented under pressure from the Florio campaign. Releasing tax returns is not required under state law.
Mrs. Whitman said voters can be assured that she is running the show. While she often asks her husband for his advice, she does not always take it, she said. "We don't have an embargo about talking about things facing us," she said. "But to say his opinion is always the one that wins -- that doesn't happen."
Sal Russo, a Washington political consultant who worked on Mrs. Whitman's Republican primary campaign, said voters have yet to realize how thoughtful and tough-minded Mrs. Whitman really is.
"She pretty much calls her own shots," he said. "John's not going to play a Hillary Clinton."
 
Not a Consensus Builder
 Mr. Whitman said that his role will develop over time and that he is eager to do what he can to promote New Jersey and support its institutions.
During the campaign, the Whitmans made an effort to shield their children from the daily slings and arrows of politics, even taking a week off during the summer to go biking in Idaho, a decision that drew criticism from fellow Republicans who felt Mrs. Whitman should have been concentrating on the election. During the campaign, Kate Whitman recorded a radio commercial praising her mother, but the two teen-agers were rarely seen on the campaign trail.
Mr. Whitman said having the children attend school in Massachusetts maintains a semblance or normalcy for them. "They can behave like everybody else does," he said.
Asked if he himself had ever considered seeking political office, he said no. "I am not the kind of person who is electable," he said.
Why not?
"I really believe if you run something, you run it and you're responsible for it," he said. "You decide what you're going to do and you do it. I don't need to go and talk to 27 or 46 or whatever the Legislature numbers are to ask them to come along."
Besides, he added, "I've never been really good at convincing other people to come happily along."
Mrs. Whitman agreed that consensus-building was not her husband's strong suit.
"You have a lot of strong suits, but not that one," she said warmly.
"I like making money," he said, and laughed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Our marriage vows could have said in sickness and in health and in politics, given Christie's family tradition and mine," said John R. Whitman, a financial consultant whose wife will be sworn in tomorrow as governor of New Jersey. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1); In preparation for Christine Todd Whitman's inauguration as governor of New Jersey tomorrow, John O'Neil, a custodian, cleaned her office in Trenton. Mrs. Whitman's desk, at right, has been used by every New Jersey governor since Woodrow Wilson, who served from 1911 to 1913. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RADIO CITY ENTERTAINMENT (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (70%); JUDGES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, JOHN R; MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); GRETA GARBO (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



440 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: United Asset: Little-Known Financial Giant

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
As Norton Reamer, president of United Asset Management, puts it, "$100 billion may sound big, but it's really not a lot of money."
And from Mr. Reamer's perspective, his statement does make some sense. As the founder of a one-of-a-kind holding company, Mr. Reamer has been busily acquiring independent money management firms -- 39 of them, at last count, with $100 billion in assets at his fingertips. 
 But that is a pittance, by some calculations. Money management, a highly fragmented and entrepreneurial business, measures itself in the trillions. There are now some $7 trillion in mutual and pension funds invested on behalf of others. And Mr. Reamer's stable of assets, while large, represents less than a 2 percent market share.
 So, with the enthusiasm of a carnival barker, Mr. Reamer, a pillar of the money management community here, says that $100 billion is not enough. As money gushes into investment and retirement plans of all types, Mr. Reamer wants his cut. He is offering hard cash -- and an immediate windfall -- to these small and highly profitable firms. Why, he boasts, he is out shopping and there are some 300 firms on his list.
"There are only two kinds of money management companies out there now," Mr. Reamer said in an interview at his spacious office overlooking Boston harbor. "Those part of United Asset now, and those that will be a part of United Asset later."
United Asset Management, close to Merrill Lynch & Company and J. P. Morgan & Company in asset size, is a little-known financial giant. Its home office in the cramped financial district has only 33 employees. But that is because the Boston concern is only a holding company for a global operation.
More than a decade ago, Mr. Reamer, then president of Putnam Investments, came upon the notion of starting a money management conglomerate, not unlike, he said, advertising and accounting giants built by acquisition. He would take an equity stake in independent mom-and-pop money management firms -- which are paid to invest for pension and mutual funds. This arrangement allowed executives of these small firms to "cash out" their illiquid holdings in return for giving, typically, about half their annual revenues to United Asset.
As a further inducement, Mr. Reamer promised to keep his hands off these entrepreneurial ventures -- the firms set their own salaries and operate as before. The words "United Asset" are never on their doors or literature.
"When I first floated the idea of United Asset, everyone thought it was pretty kooky," Mr. Reamer said. "But, there is no one quite like United Asset Management. I knew that money managers love managing money and will do that as long as we don't make it unpleasant for them."
This kooky idea has some pretty compelling economics. The money management business is expected to have double-digit growth well into the future, fueled by an aging population and the growth of pension and mutual fund assets. With little invested in the way of plant and equipment and other fixed costs, most money management firms are able to generate large sums of money from the brain power of a small number of people.
 
 
Robust Growth
 By hitching to this profitable and growing business, United Asset, since going public in 1987, has enjoyed 30 percent annual growth in profits, 27 percent annual growth in revenues and a 50 percent annual rise in dividend payouts. In 1992, the company earned $35 million on revenues of $295 million.
But normal accounting measures fail to capture what sets United Asset apart.
The company's strength is its cash flow and, under controversial accounting approaches recently upheld by the Supreme Court and included in President Clinton's tax package, United Asset can completely write off the cost of its acquisitions. This means United Asset gets to reduce from taxes the amount it spends to buy money management firms.
As a result of this tax break, it has an enormously powerful cash flow -- what Mr. Reamer calls the "green hose" -- that must be spent on something. United Asset's cash flow exceeds its net income: in 1993, its cash flow reached $100 million. This money has only three uses: dividends, acquisitions or paying down the company's modest debt.
 
 
'Free Cash Flow'
 "Their cash flow is powerful and huge," said Jeff Adams, a vice president at Denver Investment Advisers, which owns $50 million in United Asset shares. "And, it is free cash flow since they have no capital demands. That, plus the good demographics of money management, means they will grow 10 percent a year without doing anything."
To many, buying shares in United Asset is like buying an option on the stock market. And some say United Asset may face rough times in a bear market. James Rogers, a New York investor, is one of them. "United Asset is a put-together company and most eventually will fall apart," Mr. Rogers said. He also dismisses the tax write-offs as "water" on the balance sheet, which, if removed, gives United Asset a negative net worth. "Everyone knows this is a house of cards that will fall apart, especially in the next bear market," he said.
This view is shared by many short-sellers -- investors who bet stocks will fall. Short interest in United Asset recently reached a new high of about 1.1 million, or 4 percent, of all the company's shares.
But United Asset and most analysts dismiss this view. They point out that the company grows in two ways: as the dollar value of the assets managed increases and as United Asset makes more acquisitions. The greater the assets under management, the greater the revenues sent to the holding company.
 
 
Domestic Equities
 To begin with, domestic equities represent only 54 percent of all the company's assets and its recent acquisition of global money management and real estate firms are part of a strategy to diversify from such equities. In addition, the corporate pension plans that represent the bulk of United Asset's assets are typically structured so that if the securities in those plans drop in value because of falling markets, the corporations that sponsor the pension plans must make up any shortages.
"The shorts don't understand the fundamentals of this business," John Adams, an analyst at Adams, Harkness in Boston, said. "If assets go down, corporate pension sponsors must pony up more."
United Asset is further protected by the revenue-sharing arrangements with its acquired companies. United Asset takes a portion of the acquired company's revenues -- typically 40 to 50 percent. The rest is kept by the acquired firm to cover costs, most typically salaries. If the markets and business fall, the acquired firms must cut expenses out of their own revenues. "United Asset can never lose money," said John McNamara, a United Asset executive vice president.
More critical to United Asset's future, however, is the issue of succession at its acquired firms. Once the money management firm's top management is bought out, the question arises of how to motivate the junior ranks.
 
 
'Right Financial Incentives'
 After all, the older managers will retire and a younger generation will take over -- but in a company without the same chance to reap a lucrative one-time windfall. And money management is a people business; keeping talented people happy and well paid matters. Mr. Reamer, who took home nearly $900,000 in 1992, claims he is the 41st highest-paid person at United Asset.
"The long-term question at United Asset is whether they have bought a perpetuating or a depleting asset," Michael Blumstein, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said. "United Asset gives a generation of money managers the opportunity to take the money out of their firm and yet still run the show. But the question is whether the younger people are given the right financial incentives."
That issue is well understood. "The beauty of our arrangement with United Asset is that it allows the key owners of our firm to run our firm, yet reap financial security," said George B. Kauffman, a principal in Sirach Capital Management Inc., one of the acquired firms. "But as senior people we've got to be willing to share the rewards with those junior to us."
 
 
New Starting Mutual Funds
 For his part, Mr. Reamer said he was trying to help. Despite United Asset's avowed hands-off policy, the holding company has decided to start a new set of mutual funds, called the Regis Funds, to help its firms tap into the rapidly expanding 401(k) retirement market. Mr. Reamer hopes this will give the acquired firms another product line to generate future revenues -- and salaries.
Under the Regis plan, a pool of institutional funds will be plucked out of the various acquired firms to form the Regis family. The Regis Funds can be marketed by all 39 firms, which are otherwise ill-equipped to compete in this market with Fidelity and Vanguard.
Given the fact that the acquiring companies, so far, profess to be satisfied and that none have been ill-fated acquisitions, many have raised the question of why no one else has copied the United Asset model, especially because there are so many money management firms that may want to cash out.
To this, Mr. Reamer has a simple answer: "Damned if I know."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norton Reamer, center, is president of United Asset Management, a one-of-a-kind holding company that has acquired 39 independent money management firms with $100 billion in assets. He met in his office with William H. Park, left, senior vice president, and John McNamara, executive vice president. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. D8)
 
Graph: "United Asset Management Growth" shows assets under management and operating cash flow from 1985 to 1993. (Source: United Asset Management)(pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); MARKET SHARE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE NORTON H REAMER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



441 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Debate on Health Care May Depend on 'Crisis'

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16

 BODY:
When different people say, "There isn't a crisis in health care," they mean different things. But none are particularly helpful to the Clinton Administration's hopes for enacting sweeping health care legislation.
When Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, said it on Jan. 9, he meant that he would rather deal with welfare legislation first, although he has often acknowledged that the health care system is a mess and needs fundamental change. 
 Even so, after that appearance on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," in which Mr. Moynihan also denounced Western inaction in Bosnia and urged President Clinton to accept an independent counsel and make his Whitewater papers public, it was the Senator's health care line that troubled the White House the most.
That was because Mr. Moynihan had echoed a phrase that more and more Republicans are using. They are still not sure what they want, but those who are certain that they don't want anything like Mr. Clinton's plan have found a unifying way to argue that his proposal goes too far.
When Bill Kristol, a Republican strategist who heads something called the Project for the Republican Future, made the "no crisis" argument in December, he was basically offering tactical advice, saying Republicans had to calm the country or something sweeping might be enacted.
Not that he was all that calm himself in the December memorandum in which he first gave visibility to the dismissive approach; he called Mr. Clinton's style "a brazen campaign of fear-mongering" and a "campaign of fright."
It was up to Republicans, Mr. Kristol said, to "remind the nation, point by point, that it currently enjoys the finest, most comprehensive and most generous system of medical care in world history."
But lest they sound like Pollyanna and perpetuate the Republican image of not caring about domestic problems, he urged Republicans to acknowledge that the problems were "serious"; they just did not constitute a crisis.
To some Senate Republicans, those differentiations are just plain silly and basically reinforce the assumptions that have made the public trust the Democrats but not the Republicans on health care.
Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, for example, insists that Mr. Kristol is plain wrong. Mr. Chafee, chief sponsor of the most comprehensive of the Republican health care bills, says that when serious students consider rising health costs for business and government and the 15 percent of the public who lack insurance, then the word "crisis" is appropriate.
As to suggestions that some tinkering here and there -- a favorite Washington response when the complexities of a problem first attract attention -- will be enough, Mr. Chafee replies, "What seem to be simple solutions simply won't work."
But there is concern among supporters of both the Clinton plan and the Chafee proposal that the argument that there is no crisis will prove a siren song, especially as the economy improves and fears of unemployment and the consequent loss of health insurance decline.
They fear that the slogan will weaken the allegiance of some Republicans who were reluctant supporters of Mr. Chafee. They think that right now the public supports the idea of making sure that all Americans have health insurance. But they worry that as the "no crisis" argument is made more and more there will be less pressure on supporters of other plans to shift to explicit support of universal health care coverage.
Perhaps the biggest puzzlement of all is what Bob Dole, the Senate Republican leader from Kansas, means when he says "there isn't a crisis," as he did on Jan. 2 after previously scoffing at Mr. Kristol, a former aide to Vice President Dan Quayle, as a nobody who had never run for public office.
Mr. Dole's view matters because everybody expects him to play a central role in the back-room legislating the Senate will need if it is to pass a bill. So the Senator's comment could be read with concern by Mr. Clinton's allies, seen as a hint that he was retreating from his own commitment to universal health care.
More likely, Mr. Dole was trying to convey that there might not be a need for all of the controls in the Clinton plan, but that there were enough individuals and businesses in serious trouble to create a need for deep reform, and a reform that would promise universal health care coverage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WASHINGTON TALK PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); HISTORY (62%); INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



442 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Leading Russian Reformer Quits, Questioning the Cabinet's Policies

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 16

 BODY:
A day after President Clinton left Moscow, carrying assurances of continued Russian market reforms, their architect, Yegor T. Gaidar, announced today that he was quitting the Government because he did not think that it would pursue a sensible economic policy.
"I cannot serve in the Government and at the same time be in opposition to it," Mr. Gaidar said, citing recent decisions made without Cabinet approval that he said contradicted his efforts to stabilize the economy and bring the budget deficit under control. 
 His resignation, in a letter to President Boris N. Yeltsin, is a considerable embarrassment for Mr. Clinton, who cited Mr. Yeltsin's "strong assurances of his intention to continue the reform process" as one of the most important achievements of their three-day summit meeting.
 
Yeltsin's Pledge to Clinton
 Mr. Yeltsin, in his joint news conference with Mr. Clinton on Friday, said, "As regards reforms, we will be resolute and radical." But by then, according to Mr. Gaidar, Mr. Yeltsin knew of his impending resignation after a long private talk on Thursday.
[Heading back to the United States from Geneva, Mr. Clinton said that Mr. Yeltsin had told him several days ago that Mr. Gaidar was going to resign. "We are not going to reverse our reform course," Mr. Clinton quoted Mr. Yeltsin as saying. "But we do want to cushion the impact of it."
[Secretary of State Warren Christopher seemed to play down Mr. Gaidar's resignation. "I'm not sure it's a bad thing that there are one or two changes," he said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press."]
Yet if the Finance Minister, Boris G. Fyodorov, who is said to be considering resigning, joins Mr. Gaidar in leaving the Government, that would shake already dwindling Western confidence in Moscow's commitment to financial stability and structural change.
Mr. Gaidar said he had no assurances that he would be able to control financial and economic policy, even if he kept his posts as one of four FirstDeputy Prime Ministers and as Economics Minister. He refused, he suggested today, to serve as window dressing for a sharp turn in Government policy toward higher spending and inflation that would inevitably continue to be described by Russian officials as "reform."
"I cannot answer for reforms without being able to prevent unwise actions of the Government, without possessing the necessary levers to persistently pursue the economic policy I am convinced is correct," Mr. Gaidar wrote Mr. Yeltsin.
He objected specifically to a projected monetary union of Russia with Belarus and plans for a new $500 million parliamentary center.
Mr. Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin are expected to meet Monday to discuss the resignation, and may try to persuade Mr. Gaidar to change his mind. Mr. Gaidar would insist on assurances of control over economic policy that are unlikely to be forthcoming, however, after Mr. Gaidar's Russia's Choice party came in second to the party of the caustic nationalist, Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, in the Dec. 12 parliamentary election.
Mr. Fyodorov, whose efforts to control expenditure more strictly have been widely applauded in the West, has said he would resign if reformers lose control of economic policy and Viktor S. Gerashchenko, the director of the Russian Central Bank and an opponent of reform, keeps his job.
An official of Russia's Choice told Interfax news agency that Mr. Fyodorov also planned to resign, because "he cannot bear the responsibility for a policy that will inevitably spur inflation."
 
Pressure on Yeltsin Seen
 But it may also be that Mr. Gaidar and Mr. Fyodorov are trying to force Mr. Yeltsin to dismiss Mr. Gerashchenko, who has regularly received support from Mr. Chernomyrdin, and to give fewer important posts to enemies of reform when the Government is shuffled, perhaps as early as Tuesday.
"Gaidar has to carry the can for the poor performance of Russia's Choice," a senior Western diplomat said. "And it would be hard for Gaidar and Chernomyrdin to work together in Government." Mr. Chernomyrdin took the election results as a clear sign to slow and soften economic reform.
But if Mr. Gerashchenko stays and Mr. Fyodorov goes, the diplomat said, "that would be in policy terms a pretty unwelcome signal, and makes it a lot harder to let any of this I.M.F. money loose."
Much of Western aid to Russia is funneled through organizations like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The Fund's loans are loosely contingent on some form of prudent Russian economic performance, a position the Clinton Administration has intermittently applauded and criticized.
At the moment, with Mr. Clinton talking of social protections and his Treasury Secretary, Lloyd Bentsen, talking of fiscal rigor, the Russian reformers themselves are disheartened and confused. Washington seems to be using the possibility of further loans from the Fund and World Bank as an incentive to keep Russian reformers, already a minority, in power. If Mr. Yeltsin is willing to play that game, another senior Western diplomat suggested, Mr. Gaidar seems sick of it.
 
Deferred Spending to Come Due
 But with inflation due to surge in April, given a huge amount of deferred spending in November and December, an abandonment of Mr. Fyodorov's efforts to restrain inflationary deficits would put the Fund and World Bank in an even more awkward position.
"Is this the worst of the news, or just the start of the bad news?" the diplomat wondered.
One of Mr. Gaidar's allies, Social Security Minister Ella Pamfilova -- the only woman in the Cabinet -- said she would also resign, while Mr. Gaidar said Mr. Fyodorov's decision would come in a few days, suggesting a coordinated, last-ditch effort to force a change in Government direction. "We hope that the Government's policy will not be drastically altered after all," Mr. Gaidar told Interfax.
Mr. Fyodorov said the Government was at a "turning point, where everyone is being promised money and there are offers of stronger social support policies." But "no one says who will pay or how," Mr. Fyodorov continued. "When these great projects arise from who knows where, of course one's enthusiasm for work in the Government is low." He said his decision about resignation would depend on the shape of the future government.
 
Gaidar's Changing Fortunes
 The fortunes of Mr. Gaidar, a balding, round-faced man of 37 with a courtly manner, have been a measure of the wildly uneven pattern of Russian economic changes. He has been a Yeltsin favorite and was chosen to initiate the great experiment of turning Russia into a free-market, private economy in January 1992, after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Forced out of office in December 1992 by conservatives in Parliament, Mr. Gaidar was asked to return to office by Mr. Yeltsin last September, to reassure the West about the future of reform just days before the President disbanded Parliament. Again, after the December elections and sharp criticism of Mr. Gaidar by Mr. Chernomyrdin, Mr. Yeltsin, at a news conference Dec. 22, answered a question about the future of economic reform by intoning: "Gaidar stays. Which means that the policy he pursues stays -- naturally, together with the Government and the President."
But the poor election performance of Russia's Choice, and the failure of Mr. Gaidar to persuade other reformers like Grigory A. Yavlinsky to unite with him against Mr. Zhirinovsky, have weakened Mr. Gaidar enormously. Even though he was out of office for nearly all of 1993, he was still seen by many voters as the embodiment of economic reform, even though it was Mr. Chernomyrdin who was Prime Minister. Mr. Gaidar himself criticized the slow and incoherent pattern of reform, which made social pain sharper and more prolonged.
In an interview today, Mr. Yavlinsky was dismissive. Mr. Gaidar "was decoration -- he fulfilled his role Oct. 3 and 4," when Mr. Yeltsin shelled the old Parliament, Mr. Yavlinsky said. "He couldn't change the situation; he wasn't an active member of the Government; he wasn't included." But Mr. Yavlinsky denied reports he has been approached about a Government portfolio.
In his resignation letter, Mr. Gaidar cited two cases to explain his growing frustration over economic decisions made about which he was either uniformed or strongly opposed.
First, he objected to the monetary union with Belarus, an agreement announced Jan. 4 with no discussion in the Cabinet. If the weak Belarusian currency is exchanged for the Russian ruble at one to one, it could cost the Russian economy $1.4 billion, Mr. Gaidar estimates. "We are not rich enough to sacrifice the welfare of Russian citizens to political considerations," he said. His objections were ignored.
In objecting to the new parliamentary center, he wrote that "this destructive decision was taken without my knowledge and despite my resolute objections." It, too, was never discussed in any Government meeting.
Mr. Gaidar said he would continue to support Mr. Yeltsin "and your policy of reforms." But he said his party would not blindly back the Government in the new Parliament.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an embarrassment to President Boris N. Yeltsin and to President Clinton, the planner of Russia's economic reform, Yegor T. Gaidar, quit yesterday, saying he did not feel he had received enough backing in Moscow. Mr. Gaidar, right, spoke at a reception for Mr. Clinton on Saturday with Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev, center, and Sergei A. Filatov, Mr. Yeltsin's chief of staff. (Reuters)(pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ; BELARUS; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CURRENCY US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TRENDS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; GAIDAR, YEGOR T BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



443 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Equity Issues This Week

 BODY:
The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:
Advanced Tissue Sciences Inc., La Jolla, Calif., 2.5 million common shares. Montgomery Securities. 
 Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., Toronto, $98 million of convertible subordinated notes due in 2004, B-1/B+. Merrill Lynch.
CMG Information Services Inc., Wilmington, Mass., an initial public offering of 1.2 million common shares. Piper Jaffray.
The Cheesecake Factory Inc., Calabasas, Calif., one million common shares. Montgomery Securities.
DNA Plant Technology Corp., Cinnaminson, N.J., five million common shares. D. Blech & Co.
Dynagen Inc., Cambridge, Mass., two million shares $10 cumulative convertible preferred series A. RAS Securities.
Eastgroup Properties, Jackson, Miss., 2.1 million shares. Kidder, Peabody.
Equity Marketing Inc., New York, an initial public offering of 1.87 million common shares. Josephthal, Lyon & Ross.
Equity Residential Properties Trust, Chicago, four million common shares. Merrill Lynch.
Gables Properties Trust, Atlanta, an initial public offering of 7.6 million shares. Merrill Lynch.
Glichmer Realty Trust, Columbus, Ohio, an initial public offering of 14.9 million shares, 11.9 milllion in the United States. Paine Webber.
Great Lakes Aviation Ltd., Spencer, Iowa, an initial public offering of 2.5 million common shares. Alex. Brown & Sons.
Host Marriott Corp., Bethesda, Md., 17.5 million common shares. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Interdigital Communications Corp., King of Prussia, Pa., an initial public offering of 1.8 million shares $25 convertible exchangeable preferred, done as security enhanced after market liquidity securities. Prudential Securities.
Jameson Co., Atlanta, an initial public offering of 2.5 million common shares. Commonwealth.
L.A.T. Sportswear Inc., Ball Ground, Ga., an initial public offering of 1.2 million common shares. Robinson Humphrey.
Morgan Stanley Group Inc., New York, 5 million Deutsche marks in put warrants and 2.5 million Deutsche marks in call warrants. The term of the warrants will be three years. Morgan Stanley.
Plantronics Inc., Santa Cruz, Calif., an initial public offering of 3.58 million common shares. Smith Barney Shearson.
Reynolds Metals, Richmond, $400 million preferred redeemable increase dividend equity securities convertible preferred stock. Merrill Lynch.
Southdown Inc., Houston, 1.25 million common shares and 1.5 million shares $50 cumulative convertible preferred series D. Merrill Lynch.
 
Source: MCM CorporateWatch.
Ratings: Moody's/Standard & Poor's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: AEM (TSX) (91%); AEM (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (85%); CAKE (NASDAQ) (83%); MLNK (NASDAQ) (72%); SUNPHARMA (NSE) (71%); EQR (NYSE) (69%); HST (NYSE) (68%); IDCC (NASDAQ) (67%); PLT (NYSE) (64%); PJC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (71%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (67%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS424330 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (66%); SIC5136 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3273 READY-MIXED CONCRETE (63%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (71%); GEORGIA, USA (70%); IOWA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (71%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: AGNICO-EAGLE MINES LTD (91%); ADVANCED TISSUE SCIENCES INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); CHEESECAKE FACTORY INC (83%); MODUSLINK GLOBAL SOLUTIONS INC (72%); BIONOVA HOLDING CORP (71%); SUN PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (71%); EQUITY RESIDENTIAL (69%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (68%); GREAT LAKES AVIATION LTD (68%); INTERDIGITAL INC (67%); BRODER BROTHERS CO (66%); PLANTRONICS INC (64%); SOUTHDOWN INC (63%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (57%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (56%); EMAK WORLDWIDE INC (56%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (71%); GEORGIA, USA (70%); IOWA, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (71%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT COMMON STOCK (94%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (86%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); BONDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



444 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Newspapers Race for Outlets In Electronic Marketplace

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
The rapid development of electronic information technologies has placed the American newspaper industry at a crossroads.
New methods of delivering information to desktops and living rooms are threatening the economic foundation of the $45 billion newspaper industry, historically one of the most lucrative and influential of American businesses. Newspaper companies are racing toward electronic media of all kinds in an attempt to pre-empt the competition. 
 Last week alone, three ventures were announced. The Los Angeles Times said it was starting an electronic shopping service with Pacific Telesis, and The Philadelphia Inquirer, owned by Knight-Ridder Inc., said it was going into the television news business with its own local evening newscast. The Washington Post and the Oracle Corporation also agreed to an alliance to develop an electronic publishing service, which they are expected to detail today. [Page D7.]
Increasingly, newspaper executives and industry analysts recognize that computer, telephone and cable hookups have opened paths for new vendors to compete cheaply in the sale of news and other information.
"With the digital age (apparently) fast approaching, the newspaper industry has been racking its communal brains figuring out how not to be left behind," Tod A. Jacobs, a newspaper securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, wrote in a recently published study of the industry's future.
Some on-line computer services now carry news updates and financial information, like stock market reports, that do not originate at newspapers. Perhaps most threatening to the newspaper industry, electronic buying and advertising services are already competing for advertiser dollars that traditionally went to big daily newspapers.
Without the need for costly presses and newsprint, or fleets of delivery trucks, it is now economically feasible for the new vendors to sell everything from world and national news reports to neighborhood listings and restaurant reviews, Mr. Jacobs and others said. On-line services have already opened a new market for wire services and various suppliers of niche information. And entrepreneurs are working feverishly to find new ways of collecting information to sell.
 
A Franchise Challenged
 Some in the newspaper industry are convinced that paper-and-ink dailies will never die. But the likelihood that they will be challenged as primary providers of daily information has captured the industry's attention.
James Longson, the vice president for technology at the Tribune Company, owner of The Chicago Tribune and other newspapers, gave this tongue-in-cheek explanation when asked why newspaper executives are rushing into electronic ventures: "Because everybody else is," he said. "Everybody can't be wrong, can they?"
More seriously, Mr. Longson said, "There will be some segment of the audience that will prefer to receive their information electronically; if we don't meet that need, someone else will."
Some newspaper executives argue that if they move quickly, newspapers can establish themselves in new media as suppliers of "brand name" information that they sell at premium prices, the way Procter & Gamble sells soap.
Toward that end, newspapers are starting on-line editions, data base marketing businesses and telephone information services. They are struggling to harness newspapers' strengths as the owners of vast stores of information.
 
'Evolution' of News Providers
 When he announced the television venture last week, P. Anthony Ridder, the president of Knight-Ridder, one of the country's largest newspaper companies, said the move represented a step in his company's "evolution from print to a full-service information provider."
Many executives at large newspapers are expressing similar sentiments as they try to avoid becoming "road kill" on the information highway, to borrow a warning phrase coined by Jeff Greenfield, a political and media analyst for ABC News.
The newspaper industry still has vast wealth and enormous power, and many analysts say that it has years, perhaps even decades, to fight to retain its place as a primary source of current information.
But there is an emerging consensus that newspapers face a challenge that may be as fundamental as previous threats from television, radio and other competitors for Americans' attention.
 
Costs No Longer Prohibitive
 Electronic delivery of information could negate the newspaper industry's biggest financial protection, Mr. Jacobs said. For decades, the enormous cost of newspaper printing plants and delivery systems served as a barrier to many potential rivals.
The stock market has been enthusiastic about non-newspaper companies that are aiming for multimedia riches, according to the newspaper securities analysts at J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. But some analysts contend that the new information suppliers cannot yet compete meaningfully with newspapers.
"It will take many years and much capital for such companies to usurp the traditional newspaper information franchises," the Morgan analysts said in a recent report.
Newspaper executives do not like to hear talk about usurping their franchises, no matter how far off. But entrepreneurs are already carving away parts of the newspaper industry's revenues.
 
Computer Classifieds
 An example is classified advertising. A fledgling industry is already offering various types of ads by telephone or computer, providing users with quick access to information. Some services let a potential buyer of a used car, for instance, specify the desired make, model and year without having to pore over thousands of listings. Newspaper companies are involved in some of the new ventures.
Industry analysts and newspaper executives differ on the extent of the new competition and on how quickly the industry must move against it. But in the last year, most big newspaper companies and many small ones have sharply accelerated their own electronic ventures.
Whether the financial commitments are large or small, it is clear that newspapers are struggling to protect what they consider special relationships with their communities. Competing information vendors, they say, will have difficulty matching ties that developed over generations.
Still, significant hurdles face the industry as it tries to reshape its business. Here are a few of the challenges facing newspaper executives in their race against the digital clock:
Is the newspaper a forgotten friend?
To take advantage of reader loyalty in the electronic age, newspapers must have reader loyalty in the first place. Veronis, Suhler & Associates, a firm that provides investment banking services to media companies, recently calculated that the hours Americans spend with their newspapers is dropping. By 1997, it said, the average American will devote about 165 hours a year to reading a newspaper, down almost 11 percent from 185 hours in 1984.
The slippage is occurring while time spent on activities like watching videos is increasing sharply. If readers are jilting newspapers, is there any reason to believe the romance will be rekindled electronically?
Will consumers pay more for newspaper information?
Even at 50 cents a day, some analysts say, Americans essentially view newspaper news as costing nothing. And that is exactly what they want to pay for it -- even electronically. With many newspaper executives concluding that traditional advertising revenues may never return to the lucrative levels reached before the stock market crash of 1987, an unanswered question of many new newspaper businesses is how to make the ventures pay.
Is the electronic glass half full or half empty?
A strength that newspapers are said to bring to electronic ventures is credibility as carriers of advertising. But old advertising patterns have been eroding for some time. Direct-mail companies and a host of broadcast and print rivals have been grabbing newspaper advertising dollars. In retailing, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. rewrote some industry rules in the 1980's partly by slashing the amounts spent on newspaper advertising.
Newspapers compensated somewhat for retail advertising losses by increasing the percentage of their revenues derived from classified advertisements. But even classified ads fell sharply after the market crash of 1987. And now, Morgan's analysts say new electronic information ventures by cable and telephone companies "could be a long-term threat" to traditional classifieds.
On the other hand, the Morgan analysts conclude that newspapers participating in these ventures see electronic classifieds as "a new product opportunity."
Where should newspapers place their electronic bets?
Though newspapers may seem nearly prehistoric next to electronic gizmos, a sometimes overlooked fact is that newspapers, the biggest segment of the communications business, rake in large amounts of cash. Even during the tough times of the last few years, the nespwpaper industry's average profit margins have remained respectable -- 12 to 14 percent, according to Veronis, Suhler -- and consistently higher than those in the communications industry as a whole.
Moreover, with most newspaper markets beginning to show signs of economic recovery, those profit margins are expected to climb. Newspaper publishers "are poised for positive earnings surprises in 1994," Michael A. Kupinski, a securities analyst at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, said.
That means that some of the country's leading newspaper companies will have fat rolls of cash to invest. Mr. Kupinski recently predicted that with costs down and advertising starting to rebound, profit margins at major newspaper companies were likely to head toward pre-recession levels of 21 percent or more.
Mr. Jacobs of Bernstein & Company recently calculated that over the next four years the Gannett Company, the largest newspaper company in the country, was likely to have about $1 billion in cash available for investment, while the Tribune Company was likely to have $700 million and Knight-Ridder about $600 million.
In effect, the old dinosaurs have enough money to reinvent themselves before there is any real danger of extinction. The issue is whether they will make the right choices about investing in the new forms of electronic information delivery. As Mr. Jacobs put it: "The billion-dollar question, of course, is: What'll they do with all that dough?"

GRAPHIC: Graph: "What's Driving the Newspaper Industry" shows newspaper advertising, spending and profit margin statistics. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (91%); WPO (NYSE) (90%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (68%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST; LOS ANGELES TIMES; PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER MCCLATCHY CO (91%); WASHINGTON POST CO (90%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%); ORACLE CORP (83%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON POST; LOS ANGELES TIMES; PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; NEWSPAPERS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); NEWSPRINT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (64%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



445 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Will Take Steps On Rights, Bush Is Told

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 16

 BODY:
Former President George Bush, on a private visit here, told President Jiang Zemin this weekend that the Clinton Administration needed real progress on human rights from the Communist leadership here or it might be forced to cancel China's favorable trade privileges in the American market.
At the same time, the Chinese leader reportedly told Mr. Bush that China was planning to take a number of unspecified steps to improve its human rights record in coming months. 
 Mr. Bush's conversation with the Chinese leader was described by his former national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, in an interview. Mr. Scowcroft is traveling with Mr. Bush.
 
Similar Pledge to Gephardt
 The Chinese President's remarks to Mr. Bush and Mr. Scowcroft echoed a similar Chinese pledge given this weekend to the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, who arrived in Beijing carrying a strong message from Mr. Clinton that further progress on human rights was needed or United States relations with China were headed for a serious confrontation this year.
"We gave them a factual analysis of the situation in Washington," Mr. Scowcroft said, "and without saying whether we agreed or disagreed, we told them that since these conditions had been laid down" requiring "overall, significant progress" in China's human rights record, Mr. Clinton would have to see real progress or he would be forced to cancel China's low-tariff trading privileges.
"For one way or the other," Mr. Scowcroft said, "the President is in a box, and he cannot get out of it with mirrors," but rather must have tangible improvements in human rights.
The political assessment Mr. Bush offered the Chinese leadership was helpful to Mr. Clinton in that it reinforced the notion that China must take seriously Washington's determination that there be significant progress this year on the plight of the thousands of political prisoners languishing in Chinese jails.
 
A Clinton Campaign Theme
 Such progress eluded Mr. Bush while in office, and he came under fire from Mr. Clinton during the 1992 Presidential campaign for "coddling" China's "dictators." But at the same time, Mr. Bush's and Mr. Scowcroft's assessment suggests that China policy under the Clinton Administration is long on political exuberance and confrontation, and short on practical substance.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Scowcroft are known to believe that a more low-key approach that avoids ultimatums or setting deadlines is a more effective way of dealing with China.
The Chinese President reportedly told Mr. Bush that "within our legal limits, there are some things we can do" that would be responsive to Washington's concerns. Mr. Jiang's positive remarks to Mr. Bush and to the Congressional delegation traveling with Mr. Gephardt represent a marked departure from the usual refusal by Chinese leaders to engage American officials in discussions of human rights.
On the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Secretary of State Warren Christopher, speaking from Geneva, reiterated that China must heed warnings to improve its human rights record, and that progress in other areas could not replace that.
"I would say, from our standpoint, the progress they've made on their economy, while laudable, does not excuse the failure to make progress on the human rights record," he said.
Mr. Christopher added: "A number of people have said, 'Look, they're doing so well on the economy, you ought to forget about the human rights record. That's not my position. It's not the President's position.'
During his stay in Beijing, Mr. Bush met not only with Mr. Jiang, who is the designated successor to China's paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, but also with officials including Prime Minister Li Peng.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; BUSH, GEORGE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



446 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: 9,000 Offer To Go Feed Wild Birds In Taste Test

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER 

 BODY:
Cornell University has recruited 9,000 amateur researchers in a mass experiment to determine the food preferences of wild birds in cold weather.
In tens of thousands of outdoor tests that will end in April, bird-watchers in the United States and Canada are putting a smorgasbord of seeds before birds and recording their choices. 
 The answers, which will not be known until several months after the tests end, are important economically because bird feeding is a billion-dollar business in America, according to the Federal Fish and Wildlife Service. It reported that in 1991, the last year it made a survey, $2 billion worth of bird seed was sold nationwide.
Bird-watching and bird feeding are also important and growing hobbies for a large number of Americans. The Fish and Wildlife Service estimated that 40.9 million people feed wild birds annually.
 
Watching It Grow
 "Bird feeding is growing more and more popular," said Sue Wells, executive director of the Wild Bird Feeding Institute, a trade organization of companies involved in growing and supplying bird feed. The institute, based in Northville, Ill., has 150 members.
But questions remain among suppliers and bird feeders about which seeds ground-feeding birds like chickadees, finches, jays and sparrows prefer. They, unlike the meat-eating hawks and eagles, are mostly vegetarian, feeding on seeds either on the ground or in feeders near the ground.
The Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology, based at the university in Ithaca, N.Y., set out to find answers to two specific questions: What kinds of seeds do ground-feeding birds like best, and do seed preferences vary from region to region throughout the United States and Canada?
It recruited the 9,000 unpaid volunteers in every state and province. They are paying their own expenses, including $7 for a test kit and seed purchases at a cost of about $5.85 each for separate five-pound bags of three different kinds of seed -- black-oil sunflower, red milo and white millet.
 
A Double Purpose
 "We are involving amateurs, the back-yard bird-watchers, because we are trying to involve more people in a scientific experiment and for them to learn something about the scientific method," said Margaret A. Barker, the test coordinator.
The tests consist of setting out a half cup of each seed on one of three brown cardboards, about three feet apart, and recording the number of feeding visits by different species to each in a five-minute period. Observers were asked to repeat the test several times a day, once a week for up to 26 weeks.
The new experiment is one of several Cornell bird research projects paid for by a $759,000 grant from the National Science Foundation. Ms. Barker said that figures were not yet available about the cost of the seed preference experiment alone.
Based on evidence from bird feeders and earlier scientific tests, many ornithologists have concluded that black-oil sunflower seeds, if available, are the preferred food of almost all birds.
 
An Earlier Test
 That, too, was the conclusion drawn in basic research into bird-feeding habits by Dr. Aelred Geis for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in the early 1980's. Dr. Geis, now retired and living in Clarksville, Md., is a consultant for Bird Centers of America, a chain of stores supplying materials for bird-watchers and feeders.
In his report, Dr. Geis not only concluded that birds preferred black-oil sunflower seeds, but that many mixtures and seeds, such as millet, wheat and cracked corn, were relatively unattractive.
However, bird-seed mixtures are best sellers in commercial outlets, according to Evan Mann, product manager for one large supplier of commercial bird food, Sanford Seed in Binghamton, N.Y.
"We are strong believers in mixtures," he said. "If you are trying to attract a wide variety of birds, you do better when you offer a variety of seeds."
In a series of preliminary experiments last year, the Cornell researchers used three different seeds to tempt the birds -- black-oil sunflower, white millet and red milo. Their preliminary conclusions, which will be tested in the current mass experiment using the same seeds, were the following:
*Black-oil sunflower was the consistent choice of American goldfinches, black-capped chickadees, blue jays, house finches, pine siskins, tufted titmouses and northern cardinals.
*Red milo was chosen by Inca doves, Gambel's quail and mourning doves.
*White millet was selected most often by American tree sparrows, brown-headed cowbirds, red-winged blackbirds and curve-billed thrashers.
Not surprising to any bird feeder, the preliminary tests came up with a major problem: squirrels. The best advice from the experiment managers to the new researchers was to chase the intruders away during the test period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (74%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (83%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (83%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (54%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (83%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (83%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (54%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIRDS; RESEARCH; FEED; VOLUNTEERS BIRDS (93%); BIRDING (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ORNITHOLOGY (89%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); PET FOODS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



447 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Will Versus Paper

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Now we know why Vice President Gore was suddenly detoured to Budapest last month, ostensibly to attend a funeral. He met secretly with Leonid Kravchuk, the Ukrainian President, to set up the most important function for Bill Clinton's debut on the European scene: to act as catalyst in moving Ukraine's nuclear missiles back to Russia to be dismantled.
American tax dollars cannot be better invested than in such disarmament. Although the "re-aiming" of missiles away from cities was meaningless flackery, the tripartite agreement signed by Yeltsin, Kravchuk and Clinton was a triumph of good sense and skillful American diplomacy. The ballyhoo of summitry shored up the Ukrainian leader in persuading parliamentarians -- who could still queer the deal -- to trust Russia. 
 The worrisome part of the agreement is the hint that some private "security guarantee" was given Ukraine, perhaps by Mr. Clinton. If hostilities break out between these two glowering neighbors, the American President cannot then surprise us with anything like "Oh, I forgot to tell you -- if Moscow nukes Kiev, I promised massive retaliation."
Should Mr. Clinton ever again face press and public in a prime-time East Room press conference, he must be prepared to say what commitments, if any, he has made to close this worthy deal.
In the cause of reducing global nuclear risk, prospective intelligence aid to Ukrainian defense may well be defensible. But the days of Rooseveltian secret agreements are gone; for our word to be our bond, we require Wilsonian "open covenants."
The question is not "How'd Clinton do?" The disarmament brokerage, aided by the promise and deadline of a summit, made the trip worthwhile. Although Yeltsin's promise to continue economic reform rang hollow when he fired his leading reformer after waving goodbye to the Americans, world aid is properly tied to ending the inflation Moscow causes by foolishly subsidizing Communist-era plants.
The question is rather: "What can we do to deal with the debilitation of NATO?" Mr. Clinton thinks of Bosnia as a sad sideshow, but it has become the West's main event. On the eve of his departure for Europe, he admitted to pundits that the lifting of the arms embargo -- the dirty U.N. deed that prevents Bosnians from defending themselves -- was a dead issue.
It's dead only because he refuses to revive it. If Bosnian Muslim soldiers could acquire a balance of firepower, invaders would have reason to negotiate a sustainable peace. If the U.S. proposed an end to the embargo in the Security Council, who would veto it -- John Major? Boris Yeltsin?
But Clinton has abandoned the "lift" end of "lift-and-strike." Why? Because the new key man among his national security advisers -- John Shalikashvili, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs -- is afflicted with the defeatist mind set of Europeans who want the Bosnians to give up like good victims.
That reduced the American President's role to a feeble exhortation about not threatening to strike Serbian gunners by air "if you don't mean it." He has adopted the role of spectator, commenting sagely on the inaction of others, when what NATO urgently needs is a forceful push from its most powerful member.
All the talk about extending Western protection eastward is so much hot air when the West refuses to act collectively to stop the plundering of a small state by its neighbors.
NATO is not a scrap of paper, nor a club where members defend their exclusivity; it is the concerted will of democratic nations to resist tyranny's aggression. That remarkable will is what worked against the Soviet threat. Presidents Bush and Clinton did not realize that the collective will to resist an invasion is bleeding to death in the Balkans.
As Ethiopia was the test of the League of Nations, Bosnia is the test not just of the U.N., but of NATO. If we do not blast besiegers; if we do not arm and train defenders -- then what assurance does Ukraine have that its borders are safe? What's the use of paper partnership to the Czechs, Balts, Poles and Hungarians, who have been betrayed before?
The way to keep a U.S. military presence in Europe is for NATO nations to manifest their will to enforce the peace. Where there is no will, there is no way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VETO (78%); ARMS TRADE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ARMS EMBARGOES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



448 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Behind Mexican Rising Lies a Wider Despair;
Liberation and Payoffs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
For the peasant uprising in Chiapas, Mexico, the Mexican Government blames "liberal Catholic priests in the area" and accuses "Catholic priests of the theology of liberation." 
 Helder Camara, retired bishop of Recife, Brazil, was treated in the same manner by Government officials and landowners for his heroic support of impoverished peasants in the northeast area of his nation.
Dom Helder relates, "When I give bread to the poor, people say, 'Ah, Dom Helder, you are a saint.' When I ask, 'Why don't the people have bread?' they respond, 'but Dom Helder, you are a communist.' "
Mexican officials blame liberation theology to distract attention from a call for insurrection that comes with implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement between the United States and Mexico.
The Nation (June 14, 1993) and the Environmental Research Foundation (Oct. 28, 1993) present documentation on how Mexican Government officials and business leaders spent more than $25 million persuading our Congress to adopt the trade pact, far exceeding some previous attempts to buy the defenders of democracy:
* "Koreagate" in the late 1970's disclosed how a South Korean rice broker distributed $850,000 in cash and gifts to 31 members of Congress from 1967 to 1977.
* In 1987 a Japanese company illegally exported high-tech equipment to the Soviet Union. Japanese corporations then spent $9 million to prevent retaliation by Congress.
* In 1990 Hill & Knowlton, the public relations organization, was paid $10 million by the Kuwaiti Government to persuade the American people of the need for military intervention in the Persian Gulf.
Indian peasants in Central and Latin America have been deprived of rights for centuries. The killing of indigenous peoples by the ruling classes has gone on too long. Joining for a violent insurrection is indeed a sorry outcome for those who cannot influence the legislative process as they are driven from their land.
Would that the governments of the United States and Mexico were liberated from the buying of political favors.
 
(Rev.) VIC HUMMERT
San Antonio, Jan. 10, 1994

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (52%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (52%); 

CITY: RECIFE, BRAZIL (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEX); MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (52%); INDIAN OCEAN (52%); RECIFE, BRAZIL (57%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FARM LABOR (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (53%); 

PERSON: RUIZ, RAMON EDUARDO

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



449 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Behind Mexican Rising Lies a Wider Despair;
Trade Pact's Fallout

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Readers should not be misled by "The Other Mexico," your apparently sympathetic Jan. 4 editorial on the Indian uprising in Chiapas, Mexico. Native people across North America have been opposed to the North American Free Trade Agreement all along because they understand that it can only intensify pressures against the already burdened indigenous communities of this continent. 
 You state, "What economists hail as rational use of resources looks" -- to many Indians in Chiapas -- "like yet another assault on the traditional way of life they prize." It looks that way because it is.
The problem is not limited to a small fringe group in Chiapas, but is widespread. In an article last July 12 you reported that the trade agreement was expected to destroy the corn economy that sustains Mexico's indigenous peoples -- some 29 percent of the population. Similar effects can be expected in Canada, where efforts are being made to pass the First Nations Chartered Lands Act, which will make it easier for corporations to get at natural resources on Indian lands.
Yet you avidly supported the passage of the trade agreement, apparently with the attitude that if you want to make an omelette, you have to break a few eggs. Now you express sympathy and fine words. They say the crocodile has a good cry before devouring his victims. Your crocodile tears don't deserve any greater credence.
 
JEFFREY WOLLOCK
New York, Jan. 6, 1994
 
The writer is research director of the Solidarity Foundation, the information and research service of the Native American Council of New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEX); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIANS, AMERICAN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TRENDS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: WOLLOCK, JEFFREY

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1994



450 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
China and the United States reached an 11th-hour textile agreement, averting a major trade clash over the $7.3 billion in Chinese textiles sold in the American market each year. The Clinton Administration had vowed to reduce Chinese textile imports by more than $1 billion unless a new pact ended overshipments and cheating by Chinese companies. [Page D1.] 
After months of fruitless negotiations with the Japanese Government, the Administration has begun to talk directly to Japanese companies, urging them to buy more foreign products. [D1.]
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen told President Suharto of Indonesia that while the United States believed his Government was making progress on workers rights, it should do more if it wanted to retain its trade privileges with Washington. [D6.]
Saudi Arabia is nearing agreement with five big U.S. military contractors to stretch out $10 billion in payments. [A8.]
 
The Economy
The most significant long-term economic impact of the Los Angeles earthquake was expected to stem from disruptions in travel and commuting. Analysts said Southern California could enjoy modest economic gains as the region rebuilds. [A21.]
The United States, in agreeing last week to buy billions of dollars worth of uranium that had been the explosive material of Russian and Ukrainian nuclear warheads, is trying to regain market share in a business it once monopolized. [D7.]
 
Companies
Viacom is expected to raise its bid for Paramount as early as this morning to match the total value of QVC's current offer. [D1.]
Greyhound Lines, the only nationwide bus company that links the smallest American towns and the largest cities, is acting more like an airline. And the company's goal is to shape a bus system that airlines will seek to emulate. [D1.]
Woodward & Lothrop Holdings, the parent of two venerable retailers in the Washington and Philadelphia areas, filed for bankruptcy protection and reshuffled top management. [D1.]
Some Coffee Connection clients come miles out of their way, a tribute to the discriminating coffee taste of the chain's owner. [D2.]
The chairman of Alexander & Alexander Services is stepping down to allow improvements in operations and earnings at the insurance holding company. [D3.]
Microsoft will supply software for Sega Enterprises' latest video game machine, people familiar with the deal said. [D4.]
Medical Care America agreed to sell its home-infusion unit to Caremark International for $175 million. [D4.]
For the second time in a year, Montgomery Ward named a new president and chief operating officer of its retail unit. [D4.]
Shares of Metallgesellschaft surged after a deal was devised to save the German metals giant from bankruptcy. [D4.]
The Energy Department has joined a Texas utility in a trial to produce enough wind-generated electricity by 1995 to supply 3,000 homes in the middle of the nation's richest oilfields. [D4.]
 
Markets
The Dow recouped early losses to close at its second straight high amid expectations that the Los Angeles earthquake would help to stimulate California's economy. It rose 3.09, to 3,870.29. [D8.]
Treasury bond prices slipped in light trading overseas. [D18.]
The bitter Northeast cold drove heating oil prices to a 2 1/2-month high. [D17.] The dollar was mixed in light trading. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
Despite low crude oil prices, some analysts say stock opportunities exist among domestic oil companies. Market Place. [D8.]
The absence of minority groups in advertising persists even as the industry tries to aim sales pitches at increasingly multicultural consumer markets. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); UKRAINE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (54%); WOODWARD & LOTHROP HOLDINGS INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); ALEXANDER & ALEXANDER SERVICES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); UKRAINE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TEXTILES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); MARKET SHARE (67%); AIRLINES (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); WIND POWER PLANTS (60%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%); WIND ENERGY (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



451 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: Malcolm Forbes Jr., Heir at Whitman's Side, Escapes His Father's Shadow

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
Malcolm S. Forbes Jr. still remembers when he and Christine Todd Whitman, who becomes Governor of New Jersey today, first joined hands in support of their favorite Republican candidate.
"The Nixons came to New Jersey in 1952 for the vice-presidential campaign," Mr. Forbes recalled recently at the lower Manhattan headquarters of Forbes magazine, flagship of the publishing empire he has run since his famously flamboyant father, Malcolm Forbes, died in 1990. The younger Forbes, who is known as Steve, was 5 years old and Christie Whitman was not much older. 
 "We were delegated, each of us, to hand Mrs. Nixon dolls for her two daughters," he said.
After their early debut, "Christie went one path, and I went another," added Mr. Forbes, now 46, glancing around at the photos of Forbes estates all over the world and models of its yacht and private DC-9 jet.
 
Far Hills Country Day
 Well, not exactly. Indeed, their paths have crossed frequently ever since. Growing up wealthy in Somerset County, they attended Far Hills Country Day School together. They both own large estates in the horse and farm country near where they grew up. Later, one of Steve's five daughters went to Far Hills with Mrs. Whitman's son. So, when they met last June at the school's graduation, it was natural that Mr. Forbes agreed to help lead an economic advisory group for her campaign.
Out of that came Mrs. Whitman's provocative and risky pledge to cut state income-tax rates by 30 percent. And with it, Mr. Forbes emerged more clearly from the long shadow cast by his late father to assume prominence in the conservative nexus where money, ideas and political ambitions furiously mix.
For Steve Forbes, Mrs. Whitman's victory was proof that the tax-cutting ideology he has championed outlives the end of Ronald Reagan's Presidency and the 1980's. He hopes that a protest against high taxes and expansive government in New Jersey, Massachusetts and Michigan presages a national revival of the 'supply-side' (tax-cutting), term-limit, school-choice populism of the right.
It is the list expounded by such Washington Republican luminaries as Jack F. Kemp, the former Congressman from Buffalo, Newt Gingrich, the deputy Republican leader in the House, and William Bennett, who served as Mr. Reagan's Education Secretary. All three have expressed interest in running for President.
 
The Forbes $400
 Steve Forbes is well placed to help them toward that goal. He commands a fortune that New Jersey Monthly estimated at $400 million, plus a privately owned magazine with his own two-page column reaching well over a million affluent business readers every other week. He recently became chairman of Empower America, a Washington advocacy group that serves as a somewhat shaky umbrella organization for Messrs. Kemp, Gingrich, Bennett and others in the anti-tax, pro-market camp.
"It's no easy task getting them all to work together," Mr. Forbes said. "But look, I feel very strongly about some of these issues and will do everything I can to help propagate them. And while all the consultants are mesmerized by process, I believe we are entering a time where ideas are going to be the chief motivator of political movements."
"Steve transcends the squabbling," said Mr. Kemp, who was Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under George Bush. "Art Laffer, Larry Kudlow, Jude Wanniski -- Steve gets along with all of them. He has a way of disagreeing without being disagreeable."
"I've known Steve for 20 years," said Jude Wanniski, a former Wall Street Journal editorial writer and an early popularizer of 'supply-side' ideas. "There is no one in journalism who has been more consistently enthusiastic about the supply-side growth model than Steve."
 
Shaped Whitman Tax Plan
 Mr. Forbes showed his political acumen last fall. Against the opposition of Edward J. Rollins Jr. and other political advisers, Mr. Forbes and Lawrence A. Kudlow, a Wall Street economist, persuaded Mrs. Whitman to support their tax-cut plan. They promoted it at a series of meetings at the Whitman home last September. The tax pledge was roundly criticized by editorial pages and still faces formidable obstacles, but it proved crucial to her victory.
Mr. Forbes expects to continue as an informal adviser to Governor Whitman, but he understands the limits of his influence. "I don't see a kitchen cabinet or anything like that," he said. For State Treasurer, he and Mr. Wanniski recommended James H. Wallwork, a former State Senator who lost the Republican gubernatorial nomination to Mrs. Whitman. Instead, she went outside New Jersey to select Brian W. Clymer, a Bush Administration official.
"Christie will listen and talk to everybody but she leans on no one when she makes up her mind," Mr. Forbes said. "Because of her nice manners she is underestimated, but I think she has shown she is a lot more determined and tougher than people gave her credit for."
 
In Whitman's Transition
 Mr. Forbes gave the legal maximum to Mrs. Whitman's campaign: $1,800 each for primary and general elections. Other family members contributed as well. Since her victory, he has met with Mrs. Whitman three times and taken an active part in her transition effort as a member of the budget review committee.
Mr. Forbes, like others close to Mrs. Whitman, expects her to push her tax-cut plan vigorously through the Legislature. And he is convinced that lower taxes and a curb on government spending are just what New Jersey needs.
Forbes's weekly newspapers in New Jersey "have not been big money makers," he said. "That's another reflection of the New Jersey economy. So it's more than intellectual interest that I have in Christie Whitman's success. I want New Jersey to do well for selfish reasons, too."
As he becomes a popular speaker in conservative circles and perhaps a future kingmaker, Steve Forbes makes one thing perfectly clear: He is not his father.
"It would be silly to try to imitate my father," he said. "Learn his approach to life, yes. But take up hang gliding in some kind of competition to prove who's more daring? No."
 
Father Was Flamboyant
 Malcolm Forbes, while somewhat shy and reserved in early adulthood, delighted in an extravagant life in the limelight. He collected, among many things, Faberge eggs and modern art. In his late 40's he threw himself into cross-country ballooning and motorcycling. In his 60's, he led a jet-setting life, frequently as a companion of Elizabeth Taylor.
By contrast, Steve collects books and autographs. On the private jet returning from Malcolm's notorious $2-million 70th birthday party in Morocco, one guest remembers Christopher (Kip) Forbes, one of Steve's brothers, glad-handing such celebrities as Henry and Nancy Kissinger. Steve primly sat reading sales reports from Forbes's ad people.
Many people in publishing thought Forbes would wither without Malcolm to drum up advertising and attention. There were fears that Forbes Inc., like so many other family enterprises, might plunge into internecine warfare in the next generation.
But the company, a privately held concern that does not disclose its revenue or profit, has thrived since Steve Forbes took the helm in 1990. In 1992, during a publishing slump, Forbes magazine became the industry leader in ad pages. Its circulation, at 767,789, has continued to climb.
 
Expands Empire's Reach
 Together with his three younger brothers, Kip, Robert and Timothy, who each run parts of the business, Mr. Forbes has expanded the empire's reach. He killed off a flashy life-style magazine, egg, begun only months before with great fanfare by his father. But Forbes then started two new magazine supplements: FYI, on leisure pursuits for its well-to-do business audience, and ASAP, a bimonthly on technology. ASAP was immediately profitable and both are doing well, Mr. Forbes says.
The company also expanded its weekly newspaper chain in New Jersey and began custom textbook publishing. It recently took over an unprofitable annual journalism review from Mr. Wanniski and renamed it Forbes Mediacritic, with plans to make it a quarterly critique.
"My first priority is to run a business, not to worry about the fortunes of the Republican Party," he said.
Yet Mr. Forbes also says that his greatest pleasure derives from his favorite causes. "Writing my pages is a sheer delight," he said. "That is the most enjoyable part of this position."
 
Column Focuses on Politics
 Malcolm Forbes's comments in the magazine ranged far and wide. Steve Forbes, though, uses his soapbox to focus almost exclusively on politics.
"Steve really is a true believer," said Allen Sloan, a former Forbes editor now a columnist at Newsday. "His father just believed in what was convenient. Malcolm was much less of an ideologue."
For all his business instincts, some journalists say Mr. Forbes lacks the cutting talents of tax foes like Robert Bartley, editorial page editor at The Wall Street Journal.
"He's been an excellent steward of the company and the family, but the column is not particularly original," said a former Forbes editor, who agreed to talk only if he was not identified. "There's a lot of standard Clinton bashing in there."
Some outsiders contend that both Malcolm and Steve on occasion cross the line between business and journalism, exploiting their position to unduly influence stories in the magazine. They cite, as one example, Forbes's turnabout from being an early critic of Michael R. Milken, the Drexel Burnham junk-bond king who went to prison for securities violations, into an unabashed cheerleader for Mr. Milken. One of Mr. Milken's biggest boosters is Mr. Wanniski, a close friend of Steve's.
 
Milken Not Darth Vader
 Mr. Forbes says the critics are wrong. "We like to cut against the conventional wisdom," he said. "When Milken was a new phenomenon, we took a critical look at him. But when everybody said he was Darth Vader, our attitude was that he made possible MCI and a lot of other things that wouldn't have happened without his financial genius."
Mr. Forbes insisted that James W. Michaels, the longtime editor of Forbes, has essentially carte blanche. "I leave Jim Michaels alone," he said. "Under my father, Jim probably had 98 percent autonomy. Still does today; some say 99 plus."
Outside of work, Mr. Forbes's life revolves around his family. He lives in Bedminster with his wife, the former Sabina Beekman, a minister's daughter. They have five daughters, in age from 6 to 20. Steve calls his three brothers "my closest friends," adding: "I guess we got all our sibling rivalry out beating each other up as youngsters." A sister, Moira, is married to a doctor in the Philadelphia area.
Despite the Forbes tradition of primogeniture, Steve insists that he can easily envision one of his daughters' taking over the family enterprise some day. "I take a very liberated view of these things," he said. "I mean, 'Why not?' especially in this day and age."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Christie will listen and talk to everybody but she leans on no one when she makes up her mind," said Malcolm S Forbes Jr., who expects to continue to serve as an informal adviser to Christine Todd Whitman after she becomes Governor of New Jersey today. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TERM LIMITS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLISHING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; FORBES, MALCOLM S JR RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



452 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Yonkers Looks to Hudson Riverfront for Its Future

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: YONKERS, Jan. 17

 BODY:
On a day when craggy ice floes clogged the Hudson River and the majesty of the Palisades was curtained by heavy fog, two public works employees sat in their truck, sipping coffee and watching the river. They were the only humans in sight along the city's rundown hodge-podge of a waterfront.
But by early in the next century, city officials hope, the downtown portion of Yonkers's 4.5-mile Hudson River shoreline will be transformed into a lively strand bustling with sightseeing ships, canoes, a public marina, shops and apartment buildings. 
 The new plan, devised by Ehrenkrantz & Eckstut Architects, the firm that designed Battery Park City and Baltimore's Inner Harbor East, and Travers Associates, a consulting company, is reminiscent of the renewal of Baltimore's waterfront. More than $18 million in public money has been committed to the project.
The transformation will take 7 to 15 years, city officials say, but the first steps are under way. This month, the city signed an agreement to provide space in the new waterfront for Ferry Sloops, a Hudson River environmental and educational organization that teaches sailing and ecology.
 
From the Water Inward
 The agreement is important to Ferry Sloops because after several years of uncertainty over a permanent home for its 42-foot sloop, Sojourner Truth, and five other vessels, the group will finally have a home. But the agreement is also emblematic of what environmentalists say makes the Yonkers plan special.
"The major concept, what gives it real hope at this point, is the idea of starting at the water and moving inward," said Jerry Goldman, vice president of Ferry Sloops.
Rather than pick a site and choose a developer, the city decided to create attractive public spaces, come up with a zoning plan, and then wait for private investment. And unlike other municipal development plans along the Hudson, the Yonkers proposal actually widens the river. A new marina and deep water wharf for ferries and pleasure craft will add two extra acres of water.
Access to the waterfront would be improved for both pedestrians and motorists, with the creation of new city streets west of the railroad tracks used by Metro-North and Amtrak.
 
Riverfront Identity
 In addition, the plan calls for preserving the historical character of downtown Yonkers. To that end, the city has reached agreement with every property owner along lower Main Street, which runs west toward the Hudson, to refurbish the facades of the buildings, many of which date from the last century. The city has applied for a $225,000 grant from the State Urban Development Corporation for the renovations, and officials hope the application will be approved next month so that work can begin in the spring. The state money is to be matched by the building's owners.
Mayor Terence M. Zaleski said the plan aimed to give Yonkers back its identity as a riverfront city.
"We believe that the downtown waterfront area can really bring people from throughout the region to enjoy what's really there," Mr. Zaleski said in an interview at City Hall, where soaring windows provide a panoramic view of downtown Yonkers and the Hudson River. "A hundred years ago, it was very dynamic, very active. The city had a waterfront identity. That's why in the 21st century, we're almost going back to what worked in the 19th century, what worked originally."
The Army Corps of Engineers has promised half a million dollars in design work along the waterfront, and the city is in the process of hiring a contractor to rehabilitate the turn-of-the-century pier, which stands with its huge Yonkers sign at the base of Main Street. That project will cost about $1 million, Mr. Zaleski said.
 
Plans for Ferry Service
 Ferry service to midtown Manhattan from Yonkers is expected to begin next year once negotiations with the Port Imperial Ferry Corporation, the same company that runs trans-Hudson service between New Jersey and Manhattan, are complete.
Remarkably, in a city known for its pitched political battles, there seems to be little disagreement over the plan. Democrats and Republicans back the plan, environmentalists have embraced it and Mr. Zaleski said there was interest from developers as well, including a large shopping-center developer from out of state.
But as John D. Spencer, the Republican majority leader of the City Council and a critic of the Democratic Mayor, put it: "We've been talking about it for decades. We have a library full of plans, and the Mayor has just unveiled another one. No one is opposed to any of these plans, they're like Mom and apple pie and the American flag. The true test is implementation."
Mr. Zaleski said that because the refurbishment was planned in three stages, the city would avoid an all-or-nothing investment approach that he said had led to failure in the past. He said that Westchester County, the state, and the Federal Government have already promised aid.
"There's been talk that this is just another plan," he said. "But I'm committed to action. Do you know that there are children who live within blocks of the river who don't know that the Hudson River is the city's western boundary? I think the waterfront could become the basis for the strength of this city again, like it was 100 or 200 years ago."

GRAPHIC: Photos: I: By early in the next century, city officials hope the Yonkers waterfront, including the pier at the foot of Main Street, above, will be converted into a complex with a public marina, shops and apartment buildings.; "We believe that the downtown waterfront area can really bring people from throughout the region to enjoy what's really there," said Mayor Terence M. Zaleski. (Photographs by William E. Sauro/The New York Times)
 
Map of Yonkers highlighting city's riverfront area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); MARINAS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); ZONING (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); SCIENCE FUNDING (73%); APPROVALS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MAYORS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



453 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: Greyhound: The Airline of the Road

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 17

 BODY:
The fleet is rather narrow bodied, cruising altitudes quite low. No flight attendants, no peanuts, no drinks. But even with its wheels planted firmly on the ground, Greyhound Lines Inc. is starting to act more and more like an airline.
The only nationwide bus company that links the smallest American towns and the largest cities, Greyhound is making some high-flying plans. It is rewarding frequent riders and issuing tickets in advance. It will guarantee seats and offer hotel tie-ins and its own credit card. To avoid accidents, its buses carry radar.
 
 
Trying to Be a Model
 The ever-evolving world of transportation, which has seen one bankruptcy after another since deregulation in the late 1970's, has come down to this: Airlines, with cheap fares and short hops, are starting to look like bus companies, while the biggest bus company is trying to be more like an airline. And the goal at Greyhound, which emerged from bankruptcy in 1991, is to shape a bus system that the airlines will seek to emulate. 
 In fact, says Frank J. Schmieder, Greyhound's gangly and affable chief executive, one airline (he will not say which) has already studied the way Greyhound maintains its buses.
To fulfill its own plans, Greyhound has swiped several dozen dispatchers, computer whizzes and others from the trucking industry and especially the airlines -- American Airlines most of all, conveniently situated nearby in the Dallas area.
"They all remark that some of the systems we have are more sophisticated than the airlines'," Mr. Schmieder said in a conference room, as an aide, furiously clicking the controls at a lectern, brought forth full-color arrays of route maps and ridership calculations on a huge screen.
So far, American Airlines is inclined to boast about Greyhound's employee raids. "We're chagrined on the one hand but flattered on the other," said Timothy J. Doke, an American spokesman. "We've always been a technology leader."
The airline defectors may be forgiven for wondering what they got themselves into at Greyhound, which has 2,600 stops, more than 12 times the destinations served by any airline.
Greyhound's budget is as tight as those of its passengers. With average one-way fares of $33, Greyhound cannot afford the number-crunching that helps the airlines squeeze the last dollar from every seat. Advertising? Other gimmicks? If the airline marketers can be as brassy as marching bands, the Greyhound squad can barely afford kazoos.
Worse still, the efforts of Greyhound to give bus travel some airborne grace have sometimes run off the road, crumpling its earnings and stock price. The automated toll-free information and reservation system that started in July was inundated with up to 800,000 calls a day, more than 10 times its capacity. Even when customers gave up on telephoning and trudged over to the terminals with their bags, they found long lines and people on both sides of the counters swearing at the computers.
Greyhound cut back the reservation service to serve only the Eastern half of the nation, although the West was hooked back up earlier this month. Company executives say they have not done so badly considering that the new system for the French national railroad had even worse snarls and that costly efforts by the parent company of American Airlines to build a new reservation system for several car rental and hotel chains collapsed last year.
 
Some Disappointing Results
 Investors, however, expected Greyhound's improvements to begin paying off this year. But with traffic held down by the snarled reservation system and a slack economy, third-quarter earnings fell more than 10 percent, to $13.4 million.
Management has held out no better hopes for the results from last year's fourth quarter, when Greyhound offered $10 fares, down from $23, from New York to Washington and several other cities to lure riders back and fend off cut-rate competitors. Greyhound shares closed at $12.50 today, up 25 cents, on the American Stock Exchange. Just last May, the company raised about $100 million by selling shares for $21.25.
Some analysts have quit following the stock, but others remain confident that Greyhound can apply the right lessons from the airlines. "Only recently have they had the financial wherewithal, the management wherewithal, to do these things," said Jan Lobe of Legg Mason, a Baltimore brokerage firm. "In the short run, there will be some problems."
At the mention of his stock price, Mr. Schmieder's slouching, welcome-aboard manner suddenly turns severe. "Wall Street wants performance," he said, sitting bolt upright. "They like to hear about technology, but they want earnings per share."
He recited expenses -- reservation system computers costing millions, accident avoidance radar at $4,000 a bus -- to argue that he is planning for the long term. The radar warns of impending crashes in front or on the driver's blind right side, with alarms and flashing lights.
 
A Troubled Past
 Greyhound executives admit that much of what they are doing is overdue. For years, the company had been preoccupied, going through a leveraged buyout, bankruptcy reorganization and years of labor turmoil.
Mr. Schmieder's amiable nature helps, both in achieving labor peace and in recruiting computer and reservation specialists away from the lusher airline life to Greyhound's stark, unmarked six-story headquarters.
Bradley T. Harslem was responsible for the operation of American's Sabre reservation system when Mr. Schmieder came courting. Mr. Harslem demanded to know how Greyhound could compensate him for his first-class pass on American, useful for skiing weekends in Colorado.
Mr. Schmieder offered a Greyhound pass. "It's just as valuable as your airline pass except it's going to take you longer to get there," Mr. Schmieder said. "You can still go skiing on the weekends, except maybe you'll only have five minutes before you have to get on the bus and come home."
Mr. Harslem arrived at Greyhound as a vice president and chief information officer in early December, enticed by the chance to multiply his wealth with stock options if the share price rose. "It was $11.50 the last time I looked," he said. "It's moving in the wrong direction."
 
Making Adjustments
 Sometimes, Mr. Harslem forgets his earthbound circumstances. "On any flight in the Eastern half of the United States, let's say from New York to Chicago . . .," he began. Told that Greyhound's flights are only metaphorical, Mr. Harslem said, chuckling, "It will take me a little while to change from 18 years of being an airline person to being a bus person."
Most Greyhound passengers, however, are all too aware that they are bus people, still drawn more by the prices than by, say, the Easy Rider frequent rider program. A run from New York to Philadelphia several weeks ago was the province of the young, the foreign and the thrifty, some drawn by a special $10 fare discounted from the normal $14. Still, only 24 of 47 seats were filled, somewhat below Greyhound's usual load.
Wen-yue Shi, a young engineer, said that low fares made it possible for him to visit friends around the Northeast. He was in awe of Greyhound's system for consumers to get fares and schedules by phone, but his standards were none too high. "In China, we don't have such vast communications,' he said.
Chelsea Jackson, a freshman returning to Penn State, has flown round trip to State College, Pa., for $150, but the 14-day advance bus fare of $37, half the full price, brought her reluctantly to the bus. She did not look forward to the 40-minute wait in Philadelphia for the State College bus. .
"Since they make people wait at the stops, they should clean them up,' she said. "It's filthy and disgusting, and it's always in the worst part of town.' In fact, Greyhound has been fixing up its stops. Philadelphia's had bright modern lighting and apparently fresh paint, but also wads of gum stuck to the floor and the usual rows of plastic seats with tiny, tinny coin-operated televisions attached.
A three-year bus drivers' strike that ended last May brought with it gunfire aimed at buses, a Federal ruling that Greyhound had provoked the strike and a sharp rise in accidents caused by replacement drivers.
Mr. Schmieder's style has been to consult with the drivers constantly, and worker morale couldn't help but be better than under the previous managers. Charles Peterson, the driver to Philadelphia, welcomes passengers in tones so warm as to suggest that if he could drive and serve them snacks at the same time, he would.
He worked his way up from school buses and charters. "I always wanted to drive a Greyhound bus,' he said, adding that most drivers have become happier. "A few will tell you otherwise, but if you're not really satisfied, get another job."
The company has halved its driver staff, to 3,000, since 1990, although improved efficiency on fewer routes still allows for 80 percent as much passenger travel. This month, Greyhound is beginning an automated scheduling system that will assign and notify by telephone the thousands of drivers whose schedules vary; the rest usually work the same routes. The computer scheduling program is schooled in the work rules (no more than 10 hours driving in a day) of the Amalgamated Transit Union and in family values (try to get the drivers home each night).
Other innovations have yet to blossom. An alliance with Hospitality Franchise Systems, whose 3,700 hotels include Days Inns, Ramadas, Howard Johnsons and Super 8's, promises coordinated marketing and reservations. Putting Greyhound credit card and ticket machines in 7-Eleven stores is the sort of plan Mr. Schmieder likes to mention even as a press aide hushes him.
Greyhound has tried providing a cellular telephone or two for passengers aboard some New Jersey buses used by commuters. The trial was suspended in part because of brawls among stockbrokers grabbing for the phones. If Greyhound can get more phones at a discount, it will initially give them only to drivers.
Most passengers are less concerned about chatting up investors than about visiting family or friends affordably; their median family earnings are just $18,000, three-fifths the national level. So, whatever airline features Greyhound may offer, the only alternative for many riders will be staying home.

GRAPHIC: Photos: To fulfill its plans to shape a bus system that the airlines will seek to emulate, Greyhound has hired employees from the trucking and airlines industry. "They all remark that some of the systems we have are more sophisticated than the airlines'," said Frank J. Schmieder, Greyhound's chief executive. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times); Bradley T. Harslem joined Greyhound from American Airlines. He worked recently with an agent at a reservations center in Omaha. (Dennis Grundmann for The New York Times) (pg. D1); "I always wanted to drive a Greyhound bus," said Charles Peterson, who worked his way up from school buses and charters. He picked up passengers at the Port Authority terminal in Manhattan. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BUS (AMEX) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS485119 OTHER URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GREYHOUND LINES INC GREYHOUND LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREYHOUND LINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BUSES MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (93%); AIRLINES (92%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUDGETS (70%); TRUCKING (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; SCHMIEDER, FRANK J MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



454 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Grumman Plans to Lay Off 800 Over Next Two Years

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, L.I., Jan. 17

 BODY:
Grumman Corporation, the largest employer on Long Island, plans to lay off 800 employees over the next two years and move all its manufacturing operations off the Island by the end of 1995, company officials said today.
The changes, which the officials said would be announced on Tuesday, include the closing of the naval aircraft construction and repair operation at Calverton. They are a continuation of Grumman's effort to reduce its long-term dependence on Government military contracts, which have declined since the end of the cold war and have led Grumman to cut its payroll from a high of 33,000 people in 1987 to 17,900 at the end of 1993. 
 Grumman will lay off 400 workers this year at its various operations on Long Island, and 400 more next year, primarily at Calverton, which now employs 1,500 people. "And there may be more layoffs after that," said a company spokesman, Robert P. Harwood.
 
Engineers Will Stay
 The remaining 1,100 employees at Calverton, most of whom are engineers, will be moved to Grumman's headquarters in Bethpage, which will serve as an engineering and high-technology computer center for the entire corporation, Mr. Harwood said.
Grumman's manufacturing operations are to be transferred from Long Island to Grumman plants in St. Augustine, Fla., and Lake Charles, La., where the company says costs are far lower than on Long Island. While half of Grumman's total work force would remain on Long Island, the shift of manufacturing jobs suggests that that ratio might change over the coming decade.
Manufacturing on Long Island declined in recent years, in part because of cuts in military spending. In 1986, the Island had an estimated 80,500 jobs in defense-related industries. That number was cut to 46,000 by 1992, a loss of 43 percent.
Despite these cuts, Grumman has remained the Island's largest employer. The reorganization to be announced on Tuesday is expected to focus largely on consolidating the company's electronics and aircraft production programs.
The closing of the Calverton operation would end production on Long Island of the Navy's E-2C patrol aircraft, the only plane the company still builds from the ground up. The program is to be moved to Florida.
The Defense Department dealt Grumman a sharp blow last year when the Navy canceled a program to upgrade Grumman's EA-6B electronic jamming aircraft. The upgrade could have brought in least $6 billion over 10 years.
Calverton began its long life as a military airport in 1952, when the Navy bought 4,400 acres in Suffolk County, about 97 miles east of Manhattan. Nearly half the property, which through additional purchases grew to nearly 6,000 acres, was leased to Grumman.
For the last four decades, the field has been used to test aircraft and weapons systems and is the only final assembly plant for the Navy jet aircraft manufactured by Grumman.
 
Closing Is No Surprise
 The closing of the Grumman era at Calverton comes as no suprise to Long Island economists and business people. Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, the region's largest business and civic group, said today that Calverton should continue to be used to support the Island's economy.
"Its use as an air cargo facility, perhaps tied to the fishing and farming industry, continues to make sense to us from an economic standpoint," Mr. Crosson said.
According to a recent study by the Long Island Regional Planning Board, the Calverton airport could be developed not only as a cargo airport, but also as an industrial park specializing in products like cameras and pharmaceuticals. Some of the land could also be used for industrial-waste treatment, the study says.
The study estimates that the commercial development of Calverton could create almost 18,000 jobs both at the airport and throughout Long Island.
A decline in military and commercial contracts has had a similar impact on Pratt & Whitney, the aircraft-engine maker that has long been a vital part of the Connecticut economy. As part of a major reorganization, Pratt & Whitney, a subsidiary of United Technologies Corporation, is eliminating 6,700 of 17,200 jobs in Connecticut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (95%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (95%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: GRUMMAN CORP NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (95%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRUMMAN CORP LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS LAYOFFS (94%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); NAVIES (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); COLD WAR (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



455 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Paris Journal;
In the City of Light, Her Accent Seems Just Right

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 17

 BODY:
As an early backer of Bill Clinton and fund-raiser-cum-cheerleader for many other prominent Democrats, Pamela Harriman had no need to convince Washington of her political savvy and clout. When she was named American Ambassador to Paris, though, the French were quite nervous.
The stories that preceded her arrival here last May focused less on her role as a Washington powerbroker and Friend of Bill than on the rich and powerful men who had shaped her extraordinary life. Even in the large American colony here, eyebrows were raised. 
 Was it not odd for the United States to be represented by a 73-year-old British-born aristocrat who was married briefly to Winston Churchill's son, Randolph? She later married and was widowed by Leland Hayward, the Broadway producer, and by Averell Harriman, the former diplomat and Governor of New York?
Granted, the plum Paris post has often gone to campaign contributors, but was a woman known for presiding over glittering political evenings in her Georgetown home really equipped to run a huge embassy, negotiate complex economic topics and handle the oft-prickly French ?
 
'I Love Challenges'
 Indeed, in barely seven months, Mrs. Harriman has convinced the ever-squabbling French and Americans that she is after all the right woman for the job.
"If I'd had time to think about it in depth, I'd have probably been too scared to take the post," she said in an interview in her large paneled office beside the Place de la Concorde. "Obviously, this is the biggest challenge I've ever had." She added, "I love challenges."
The role of Ambassador to France is not easy to define. It involves presiding over a 1,100-member embassy staff that includes representatives of 20 different Government agencies. At the same time, relations between Washington and Paris are so complex that important issues are often handled directly by the two Governments.
Almost from the moment she arrived here, though, Mrs. Harriman was drawn into the growing battle between the United States and France over the GATT global trade talks. At loggerheads over farm and audiovisual trade, the two sides had reached rare levels of irritation with each other.
"I was a sort of messenger going back and forth," she said of the final tense weeks of bargaining, "explaining to Washington why the French think and argue the way they do and also in the other direction, telling the French why our farmers are just as important to us as theirs are to them."
The French were soon persuaded to take her seriously. "She was very helpful," one Foreign Ministry official said after the trade package was tied up last month. "We presume she sent the right messages with the right analysis. We all know she has a direct line to the White House and this is very important. She has weight."
For Mrs. Harriman, her Washington contacts are also a key asset, not only because she can telephone President Clinton when necessary (although she refused to say how often she does so), but also because she can promote closer ties between French and American politicians. "One of the things I've been trying to do is to explain to the French the power of Congress," she said.
On diplomatic matters, she confers regularly with Sandy Berger, the deputy national security adviser, and Peter Tarnoff, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs. But she also keeps in touch with friends in Congress, even joining the Clinton Administration's lobbying effort last year before key votes on the budget and the North American Free Trade Agreement.
The talents she developed in Washington running her own political action committee -- "putting people together, maintaining dialogue, keeping channels open," as one embassy staffer put it -- have proved useful here, with dinner invitations to her residence now prized by French decision-makers and American residents alike.
"We love glamorous people," one French Government official said with a laugh. "And her past, well, for us that's a sign of vitality."
Then there is her art collection, with every visitor eager to see Van Gogh's "White Roses" as well as works by Picasso, Matisse, Cezanne and others.
"But what I find most useful is that I can speak their language," Mrs. Harriman said of her meetings with the French.
Nor does it do her any harm that she can tell wartime stories about meeting General de Gaulle during his wartime visits to Downing Street where she was living with her in-laws, the Churchills. "You should see the faces of young Gaullists when she says, 'When I had dinner with General de Gaulle, he said. . . '," one embassy official noted.
 
High Marks From Americans
 What appears to have become a non-issue is that she is the first woman to head the United States Embassy here, which also has women in its second and third top posts. "I think in fact the Europeans are more polite to women than perhaps we are at home," she said.
More important, perhaps, is that the Americans living here have given her high marks. "I was thrilled to see a qualified woman on top," said Phyllis Morgan, who heads a group of Republicans who live in France. "And I'm happy to say I find her serious. She is very intelligent and full of energy, and she has gained the reputation of being a very solid Ambassador."
So, Mrs. Harriman was asked, has she somehow reinvented herself again? "I think I'm so used to it," she said in an American accent that does not disguise its British origins. "I've had lots of stages in my life. You try and adapt to every one that comes down the pike. Now I'm trying to do what I'm doing to the best of my ability. So I concentrate on today and tomorrow."
In her case, though, that still means doing two jobs. She is now preparing for President Clinton's first official visit to France in June to mark the 50th anniversary of the Allied landings in Normandy.
But she is also determined not to be forgotten in Washington. "The habits of 20 years don't change, you know," she said. "Anyway, I'm going back in a few years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pamela Harriman in her office in Paris. Washington's newest Ambassador there is winning bouquets. (Gerard Uferas for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (65%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: HARRIMAN, PAMELA (AMB); RIDING, ALAN BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



456 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Rebels Give Statement To Government

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 17

 BODY:
The envoy named by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari to negotiate an end to the two-week-old peasant uprising in the south said today that the Government had made its first formal contact with the rebel leaders.
The envoy, Manuel Camacho Solis, said a leader of the Zapatista National Liberation Army who calls himself Insurgent Subcommander Marcos had sent him a communique outlining the group's demands and perhaps laying a basis for talks between the two sides. 
 Mr. Camacho would not elaborate on the contents of the message, except to say that it essentially reiterated the rebels' positions.
 
Treatment of Indian Peasants
 The Zapatistas, based in Chiapas state, have said they are fighting for democracy, justice and better treatment of Indians. They have not specified what they want the Government to do before they lay down their arms.
Mr. Camacho said the Government would respond to the communique Tuesday. But it is unclear whether or how quickly the exchange may lead to the start of peace talks.
Government officials were almost frantic at the silence of the insurgents, who seized the country's attention on Jan. 1 by occupying San Cristobal, three large towns and some villages in the rain forest and highlands near the border with Guatemala.
 
Silence From the Rebels
 When the Government offered to talk only if the rebels laid down their arms, the rebels virtually ignored them.
After the President chose Mr. Camacho, his Foreign Minister, who earned a reputation for skillful negotiation when he was Mayor of Mexico City, the Government began seeking contact with the insurgents. But even since the Government offered the rebels a pardon and then declared a cease-fire on Wednesday, the insurgents have said little about how they might move toward a dialogue.
Seeking to draw the rebels out, a haggard-looking Mr. Salinas announced on Sunday that he would call a special session of Congress to pass a law providing full amnesty for any actions in the uprising to that point. Some officials said previously that any such offer would only be discussed as part of talks with the rebels.
Mr. Camacho described the Government's moves today as "messages of conciliation" that "have brought the differing positions closer together."
Yet even as Mr. Camacho traveled back to Mexico City to inform Mr. Salinas about the rebels' communique, other officials described a Government strategy that appears to be aimed at undercutting the rebels' sudden role as the voice of impoverished Indians.
Central to the effort, the officials said, is putting an end to the armed conflict, in which at least 100 people and perhaps many more have been killed. There have been reports of sporadic firefights between rebel and Government troops since the cease-fire, but for the most part the truce has held.
The Government has also moved quickly to establish wider contact with legal Indian and peasant groups in Chiapas. A three-member panel named by Mr. Salinas on Jan. 8 has been traveling around the state, interviewing local groups and taking note of their demands for economic assistance and changes in Government policies.
One official said the legal groups might be invited to talks to dilute the rebels' strength. Another said their positions could simply help to narrow the focus of talks in which the rebels might seek broad changes in the political system, which Mr. Salinas's party has dominated for almost 65 years.
By declaring a cease-fire, formally recognizing the Zapatista army and refraining from what the rebels described as "indiscriminate bombing," the Government has met all but one of the rebels' conditions for talks. But the Government has not and says it will not meet the demand that all Government troops return to their barracks.
In statements dated Jan. 13 and made public today, the rebel leaders accused the Government of violating the cease-fire and of using United States aid to "massacre Chiapas Indians," apparently a reference to the use of 21 helicopters provided by the United States for drug-control operations.
Marcos, the rebel commander, expressed an "openness to a dialogue for a just solution to the conflict." But he added, "The peace that they ask us for now has always been a war for us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Refugees gathering last week in Chiapas in southern Mexico. The Government received its first formal contact from the rebel leadership there. (Liliana Nieto del Rio for The New York Times)
 
Map of Mexico showing location of Chiapas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AMNESTY (77%); FARM LABOR (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); TRENDS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); DISARMAMENT (68%); LEGISLATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SOLIS, MANUEL CAMACHO CARLOS SALINAS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



457 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE: The Economy;
Storms, Floods, Fires, a Deep Recession, and Now Comes This

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
The earthquake that shook the Los Angeles area yesterday was the latest in a string of costly disasters to strike a state still suffering from a deep recession and now facing perhaps billions of dollars in damages.
"The bad news is that it happened," said James A. Snyder, president of the Personal Insurance Federation of California, a Sacramento-based insurance industry group. "The good news is that we've had a lot of practice." 
 Government and insurance officials said no reliable cost estimates for the Los Angeles earthquake, which registered 6.6 on the Richter scale of ground motion, were immediately available.
 
A Spate of Disasters
 Storms, floods and major fires in the state last year caused at least $1.3 billion in damages and took 26 lives, according to the California Office of Emergency Services. The 1992 Los Angeles riots, which followed verdicts in the first Rodney G. King police-beating trial, resulted in 53 deaths and $1 billion in losses; total damages exceeded $1.6 billion. State losses from the devastating Oakland Hills fire and other disasters in 1991 exceeded $3 billion.
The worst calamity in California in recent years was the Loma Prieta earthquake, which struck northern California, including San Francisco and Santa Cruz, in October 1989, just before a World Series game between the Oakland A's and the San Francisco Giants. That earthquake, which registered 7.2 on the Richter scale, caused an estimated $7 billion in damages, with only about $1 billion of those losses covered by private insurance.
About one in four homes and businesses in California are covered by earthquake insurance, according to the Insurance Information Institute. But Jerry Parsons, a spokesman for the State Farm Insurance Company, the largest insurer of homes in California, said that more than 40 percent of the homeowners in Los Angeles and Ventura counties, the two hit hardest by yesterday's quake, may be insured against earthquake damage.
 
Insurance Not Required
 Insurance companies that sell homeowner policies are required to offer separate quake coverage, but property owners are not obligated to buy it.
Partly because of the limited coverage and partly because yesterday's earthquake, while severe, appeared to fall well short of the potential impact of the massive earthquake that has long been predicted for the region, the insurance industry was not expected to face severe losses.
"As far as the insurance industry is concerned, this is not a big event," said Hal Cochrane, an economist at Colorado State University and director of its Hazards Assessment Laboratory. "Hurricanes Hugo and Andrew had a much bigger impact than the L.A. earthquake is likely to have."
The most significant economic and business fallout, experts said, was expected to flow from long-term disruptions in travel and commuting caused by damage to freeways and other major roads in the Los Angeles area. Much of the cost of repairing and replacing damaged freeways, which could reach into the billions of dollars, will be borne by Federal taxpayers.
Indeed, Southern California could eventually enjoy modest economic gains as the region rebuilds after the earthquake. "In the end, the impact of a disaster on a local economy is, strangely enough, almost always positive," said Roger Brinner, a senior economist at DRI/McGraw-Hill, a major economic consulting firm in the Boston area.
Losses in Southern California are expected to be much lower than the $15 billion that Hurricane Andrew caused in Florida and along the Gulf Coast in 1992. "No one is talking megabucks yet," said Michael Blumstein, an insurance industry analyst for Morgan Stanley & Company in New York. "I've talked to a few companies and they are all taking a wait-and-see attitude."
On Wall Street, the values of most insurance companies were only mildly affected by the disaster yesterday. "It's been a little on the negative side, but not a tremendous reaction," Mr. Blumstein said.
 
The Cost of Quake Insurance
 For homeowners, the cost of earthquake insurance varies widely depending on location and the type of home. In the Los Angeles area, where most houses are post-World War II in vintage and wood frame in construction, quake insurance premiums average approximately $1 for each $1,000 in insured value. In most cases, homeowners are required to pay the first 10 percent of losses themselves. Recently, some insurers have offered policies covering losses after they exceed 5 percent of insured value.
Typically, the annual cost of earthquake insurance in California ranges from $150 to more than $300 a year, said Jeanne Salvatore of the Insurance Information Institute in New York. That is in addition to the cost of homeowners insurance, which averages about $500 on a home valued at $300,000.
Homes built of brick, which are comparatively vulnerable to earthquakes, are much more expensive to insure. Because of the high cost, few such houses are covered in Southern California, insurance industry officials said.
 
The Price of No Insurance
 Homes and businesses without earthquake insurance are covered against losses from fires, explosions and other disasters that may be triggered by the earthquake. But they are not covered for the cost of repairing walls and rebuilding structures damaged directly by earthquakes.
The three biggest insurers of homes in California are State Farm Insurance, with an estimated 25.7 percent share of the market; Allstate Insurance, with a 15.6 percent share, and Farmers Insurance, with 13.5 percent. The Fireman's Fund is a major insurer of commercial properties. Allstateis a unit of Sears, Roebuck and Company; Farmers is owned by the British conglomerate B.A.T. Industries, and Fireman's Fund is part of Allianz, a German company.
Major insurers said they would be rushing equipment and people to Southern California within the next few days to help handle the expected crush of claims.
State Farm and Allstate announced special toll-free phone numbers for residents of the Los Angeles area. State Farm's number is (800) 732-5246 and Allstate's is (800) 755-4126.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (82%); PERSONAL INSURANCE FEDERATION OF CALIFORNIA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (54%); OAKLAND A'S (54%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PERSONAL INSURANCE FEDERATION OF CALIFORNIA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (54%); OAKLAND A'S (54%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FEDERAL AID (US) RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EARTHQUAKES (91%); DAMAGES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RIOTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); HOMEOWNERS (64%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



458 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Near an Accord To Slow Arms Payments

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17

 BODY:
In a plan that carries broad implications for American foreign policy and military industry, Saudi Arabia is nearing agreement with five of the country's biggest military contractors to stretch out $10 billion in payments due over the next two years.
Dropping oil prices and Saudi Arabia's general financial decline since the end of the Persian Gulf war have left Riyadh short of cash and in the unusual position of needing more time to pay for an array of tanks, missiles and fighter jets. More than $20 billion in arms sales are pending. 
 American military contractors, already suffering from dwindling new Pentagon orders, are increasingly dependent on sales to the Saudis and other overseas customers to help offset the decline. Large-scale cancellations could have a devastating impact on the already battered American aerospace industry, centered in southern California.
 
U.S. Needs Sales Badly
 Industry and Pentagon officials say this situation has put the contractors and the Clinton Administration, which has promised to help protect America's shrinking military industry, in the awkward position of wielding little leverage over the Saudis, because the companies and the American economy need the sales so badly.
"The Americans have no other alternative," said one Gulf state ambassador. "The Saudis are such big clients, they can set the terms."
Last Friday, the Saudi Ambassador, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, met here with the Director of Foreign Military Sales in the Defense Department, Lieut. Gen. Thomas Rhame, who serves as a middleman, to discuss details of an emerging plan.
The meeting culminated several weeks of high-level talks between the Saudis, Pentagon officials and the contractors -- McDonnell Douglas, General Dynamics, Raytheon Company, F.M.C. Corporation and the Hughes Aircraft division of General Motors -- that included at least one session at Prince Bandar's mansion in Aspen, Colo.
 
No Plans to Cancel Orders
 Senior Saudi officials have assured American officials they have no plans to cancel any orders or delay the deliveries of weapons on order. After overcoming years of resistance from lawmakers who opposed sale of advanced weapons to Riyadh because such a step could threaten Israel's security, Administration officials say the Saudis are just as eager to buy the weapons as the contractors are to sell them.
"We would like to do three things: maintain the overall number of equipment purchased, maintain overall dollar value, and work on a schedule of payments that doesn't hurt our partners and friends in the U.S. defense-industrial complex and in the labor force," Prince Bandar said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal last week.
Industry executives and Pentagon officials said the Saudis and military contractors have reached a tentative plan.
 
Schedule of Payments
 Riyadh would pay a total of $1.5 billion in cash to the five contractors in 1994 and the same amount in 1995. The contractors would cover the remaining cost of the weapons by taking out loans backed by the Saudi Government. The Saudis would repay all fees and interest costs.
Saudi Arabia owes about $4.1 billion for arms payments this year and $6 billion in 1995, meaning that the contractors would have to finance about $7 billion over the next two years. The contractors would borrow enough to keep production lines open at the minimum level needed to avoid layoffs.
As an alternative or supplement to financing, the companies have offered to delay deliveries of weapons and reduce the cost of spare parts purchases, but the Saudis have been adamant about sticking to their original deals.
"The companies in better financial shape like Hughes, General Dynamics and F.M.C. could do the financing and are prepared to do so," said one Defense Department official. "But McDonnell Douglas is not in great shape and Raytheon is almost totally dependent on foreign sales now. No one, though, wants to see production lines go down -- that means workers and jobs."
 
Pentagon Handles Payments
 The Defense Department is involved in the discussions because when foreign countries buy weapons through the Pentagon, they put money in a foreign military sales trust fund. They must deposit enough to cover cancellation fees and the next quarterly payment. Military contractors are paid as they finish their work.
Of all the companies, McDonnell Douglas, which builds the F-15 fighter jet, faces the biggest risks. The Saudis have ordered 72 advanced F-15's for a total of $9 billion. Riyadh has paid about $750 million in advance of the first plane's delivery in mid-1995, and had been expected to pay $600 million more this year.
"The Saudis are very strongly committed to the F-15 and we have every indication that the program will proceed on schedule," said Lee Whitney, a spokesman for McDonnell-Douglas.
Other company officials expressed similar optimism that the Saudi cash-flow problem would be limited and that orders would not be affected.
 
Radar-Equipment Sale
 Industry officials said Hughes Aircraft has about $2.5 billion in Saudi orders pending, including $1.5 billion in radar equipment and $900 million for an advanced air-defense system.
General Dynamics was expecting $300 million as final payment for a sale of 315 M1-A2 tanks. The company expects to deliver the last shipment of battle tanks in August.
Raytheon has three Saudi orders for Patriot anti-missile systems totaling nearly $2.2 billion. The company declined to disclose financial details, but said "work was proceeding according to contract."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: FMC (NYSE) (66%); RTN (NYSE) (66%); DTV (NASDAQ) (56%); GD (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (66%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (99%); GULF STATES (90%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP; RAYTHEON CO; FMC CORP; HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO FMC CORP (66%); RAYTHEON CO (66%); DIRECTV (56%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP; RAYTHEON CO; FMC CORP; HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (99%); GULF STATES (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMS SALES ABROAD DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); DEFENSE ORDERS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



459 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Recoup Early Losses as the Dow Gains 3.09 Points

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average recouped early losses yesterday to close at its second straight high amid expectations that the Los Angeles earthquake would help to stimulate California's economy.
Broader indexes retreated, as some investors cashed in on Friday's record-setting rally. Trading was the slowest so far this year, reflecting the earthquake's disruption and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. national holiday. 
 "The feeling is while the earthquake might be a depressant on the economy short-term, it will be a net economic gain, very much like the hurricane in Florida" in 1992, Anthony Dwyer, chief investment strategist at Sherwood Securities, said. "That's what's rallying" the Dow, he added.
 
 
A Fall of 10.14 Points
 The Dow climbed 3.09 points, to 3,870.29. The average fell as much as 10.14 points from the high set on Friday before recovering.
The Nasdaq composite index declined after setting two straight highs, closing 0.13 point lower at 792.18. The Standard & Poor's 500 index closed down 1.61 points at 473.30. The American Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.90 point, to 481.78.
The Los Angeles earthquake prompted investors to snap up shares of companies tied to home building and heavy construction in California, traders said. Caterpillar rallied 2, to 92 1/2, leading the rise in the Dow industrials.
Other construction companies expected to benefit from repair work as the area rebuilds also rallied. Granite Construction jumped 2 1/2, to 24 3/4; Kasler Holding rose 1 7/8, to 10; Ameron gained 2, to 41 7/8, and Calmat leaped 2 3/8, to 24 1/8.
 
 
Pacific Exchange Closes Early
 The Pacific Stock Exchange closed early to accommodate employees and members in Los Angeles, while the National Association of Securities Dealers suspended an execution system for trades of 1,000 shares or less for a half-hour yesterday morning.
About 234 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, the fewest since Dec. 31, when 167.6 million shares were traded. Big Board trading has averaged 317 million shares a day in 1994. Almost 11 stocks declined for every 10 that advanced on the Big Board.
Insurance stocks declined amid concern about earthquake-related claims, traders said. Allstate fell 1, to 28 5/8; CNA Financial dropped 1 3/4, to 76 1/4, and Chubb slipped 3/8, to 77 3/8.
The positive market spin that some investors put on the earthquake reinforced a general sense of optimism about the United States economy and corporate profits fueled by better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and economic reports, traders said.
"Earnings are going to lead the market," Kenneth Ducey, head trader at BT Brokerage, said. Companies whose fourth-quarter profits exceeded expectations in recent days include Motorola and J. P. Morgan. Citicorp, the nation's largest bank, has said it expected to post a doubling in fourth-quarter profits.
David Prickril, a money manager who invests about $300 million for the Glenmede Trust Company in Philadelphia, said Citicorp was his biggest stock purchase in the past few months. "I bought it because the earnings seem to be on the rise and banks' loan problems seem to be diminishing every single quarter," he said.
Optimism about the economic recovery over all was bolstered last week when the Federal Reserve said industrial production rose an unexpectedly high seven-tenths of 1 percent in December, and factory output rose 4.2 percent for all of 1993, the strongest showing since 1988.
In addition, the University of Michigan's preliminary consumer sentiment index surged to 95.8 in January from 88.2 in December, the highest reading in more than four years.
Parametric Technology, the most actively traded United States stock, tumbled 5, to 33 1/4. The software maker said net income for the fiscal first quarter ended Jan. 1 rose to 25 cents a share from 14 cents a year earlier, matching analysts' forecasts.
BancFlorida jumped 3 7/8, to 26 7/8. The bank agreed to be acquired by First Union, based in Charlotte, N.C., in a stock swap that values the Florida bank at $168 million.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (51%); CNA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NYSE ARCA INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); ALLSTATE CORP (51%); CNA FINANCIAL CORP (51%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (84%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



460 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, Marking King Holiday, Pushes Domestic Policy Programs

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17

 BODY:
Declaring that "the absence of discrimination is not the same thing as the presence of opportunity," President Clinton today marked the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday holiday by promoting several of the Administration's domestic policy initiatives and linking them to Mr. Clinton's just-completed trip to Europe.
The President, speaking at Howard University to an audience of students and prominent blacks, was accompanied by most of his black senior advisers, including Mike Espy, the Secretary of Agriculture. 
 Drawing on elements of the speech he delivered to black ministers in Memphis last year, Mr. Clinton said Dr. King, the civil rights leader who was assassinated in Memphis on April 4, 1968, would be disappointed if he saw what had become of his ideals.
"As I come home on this Martin Luther King Day from a trip that fought for democracy and economic progress and security, I have to ask myself, 'How are we doing on these things here at home?' " Mr. Clinton said.
 
Practice What Is We Preached
 "If democracy is the involvement of all of our people, if it is making strength out of our diversity, if we want to say to the people in the troubled areas of Europe: 'Put your ethnic hatreds behind you. Take the differences -- the religious differences, the racial differences, the ethnic differences -- of your people, and make them a strength in the global economy,' surely we must do the same here."
The President also sought to drive his point home today by holding a ceremony in the White House state dining room to announce that the application process has begun for communities to apply for a new, federally sponsored development program of "empowerment zones" for urban and rural areas.
Mr. Clinton tried to emphasize his urban policy agenda by making the empowerment zone announcement and signing a memorandum on fair housing enforcement at the end of the Howard University speech.
Tossing two other initiatives into his grab-bag of references today, he also called attention to his Administration's national service program and efforts to promote innovations in high technology.
"We've also learned, after several years of neglect, that neglect is not a very good policy either," Mr. Clinton said as he discussed the empowerment zone plan at the White House. "Somehow, there needs to be a new partnership between Washington and the communities and the individuals of this country, and there needs to be a way of doing business in which we try to create the conditions in which people can seize opportunities for themselves."
 
Tax Incentives and Grants
 The President's new Community Enterprise Board will oversee efforts by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Small Business Administration and the Department of Agriculture to designate the nine empowerment zones and 95 enterprise communities that will receive $2.5 billion in Federal tax incentives and $1 billion in grants. The deadline for applications is June 30.
Asserting that in his first year in office there had been a 35 percent increase in the number of housing discrimination complaints that were filed, Mr. Clinton said, "That is the sort of thing that Martin Luther King would want us to do -- not just to let discrimination go away, but to create opportunity."
Time and again during his speech at Howard University, the President commented on the results of his 10-day trip to Europe, where he said he witnessed the kinds of steps being taken toward peace, democracy and freedom that Dr. King would have supported.
"I pledged to help the people who believe in democracy," Mr. Clinton said of his trip. "And democracy means more than one thing. It means majority rule. It also means respect for minority and individual human rights."
 
Rise in Domestic Violence
 Citing the continued rise in domestic violence and the contrast that presents to Dr. King's life work, Mr. Clinton said the United States has problems at home that are as significant as the challenges he faced abroad.
"I come home thinking to myself I am so proud of the fact that I had the chance to be President at a time when the United States was leading an agreement with Russia and Ukraine and Belarus and Kazakhstan to dismantle weapons of mass destruction," he said. "But we can't get guns out of our own schools.
"We would be asked, I think, by Martin Luther King, 'How come this is so?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton marked the holiday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday with a speech at Howard University in Washington. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOWARD UNIVERSITY HOWARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY HOWARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS (IN US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); CITIES (67%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (63%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68) MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (93%); BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



461 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Politics Not Quite as Usual;
In Whitman's Cabinet, Resumes Seem to Outrank Party Ties

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 17

 BODY:
Governor-elect Christine Todd Whitman has nominated a Cabinet whose members will bring a wide range of backgrounds to their new positions. Raw political experience is not noticeable among them.
In contrast to her predecessor, Jim Florio, Mrs. Whitman, who takes office tomorrow, seems to have spent more time studying the professional resumes of her recruits than their political pedigrees. Nowhere in her Cabinet can be found the core group of party politicians that Mr. Florio brought down the hall from the Legislature to his Cabinet room. 
 Six in Mr. Florio's Cabinet were state legislators, onetime candidates for office, or (in the case of Samuel Crane, the Treasurer) a legislative staff member. Only two of Mrs. Whitman's choices have ever faced the voters.
Instead, Mrs. Whitman has elevated men and women from within the Trenton bureaucracy and from its satellites in the law offices and the lobbying firms of the capital area. Several she worked with when she was herself a Cabinet member, in Thomas H. Kean's administration. Of the 15 Cabinet members selected so far, seven have long experience in Trenton, including several who have worked alongside Mrs. Whitman.
Four of Mrs. Whitman's Cabinet choices are women, and she has placed women in high positions inside the Governor's office, including as Chief of Staff.
"Florio used his Cabinet to build ties to the party, and Mrs. Whitman hasn't done that," said Steven Salmore, a professor of political science at Rutgers. "She's got a mix of old war horses who have been around the track a few times, and some relatively unknown people. And, she has obviously made an effort to bring in women, and women have tended to be outsiders."
 
Either a Plan or No Plan
 Mr. Salmore, who has consulted for the State Republican Party, stressed that it is impossible to divine a pattern or purpose in a group of officials who have yet to take office.
"Either there's a grand plan and we don't see it, or there is no plan, and that's why we don't see it," he said. "That's why I have to use the word 'eclectic' to describe her choices."
Mrs. Whitman has said she would run an open government, one in which departmental heads have a hand in policy making and in reaching out directly to the public.
Mr. Florio, in contrast, made it clear from the beginning that the state government was his alone: When his first budget was submitted, he refused to allow individual Cabinet members to testify on their budget submissions, and sent only his treasurer. Departmental press releases on anything important were funneled through the Governor's office.
If Mr. Florio believed that experience in the political trenches bred loyalty to the executive, Mrs. Whitman is said by members of her transition staff to favor independent initiative under a broad agenda that the governor sets.
Today, meanwhile, the Governor-elect announced two more appointments: Gualberto Medina, a Cherry Hill accountant, to run the Department of Commerce and Economic Development, and Harriet Derman, a Metuchen Republican, to the Department of Community Affairs, which oversees municipal budgeting and borrowing.
In selecting Mrs. Derman, 48, Mrs. Whitman specifically referred to the usefulness of political connections to Cabinet officers:
"Harriet Derman's service in the Legislature, dealing with budget and fiscal issues, will be invaluable in addressing the concerns of local governments," Mrs. Whitman said in a prepared statement.
 
Two Key Appointees
 Two Whitman Cabinet members are likely to play particularly prominent roles during her first term, Treasurer-designate Brian W. Clymer, and Mrs. Whitman's choice for Education Commissioner, Leo F. Klagholz.
All Cabinet members require Senate confirmation.
As Treasurer, Mr. Clymer will have to find the money to make good Mrs. Whitman's promise to cut income taxes by 30 percent over three years. He is an outsider, albeit from just across the Delaware River in eastern Pennsylvania, but his lack of ties to the Trenton political scene means that he will not easily create an independent power base that could be useful in either helping the Governor's program get through the Legislature or challenging the Governor's office on policy issues, Dr. Salmore said.
Mr. Clymer comes to his job trailing a whiff of scandal. In Delaware County, Pa., where he was active in the Republican Party, Mr. Clymer was involved in a number of publicly financed economic development efforts that have come under scrutiny in the investigation of the Department of Housing and Urban Development under President Ronald Reagan.
Mr. Clymer has refused to discuss allegations that he was tainted by the HUD investigation. He said the matter was laid to rest during hearings on his confirmation to head the Urban Mass Transit Administration under President Geroge Bush.
 
Some Florio Aides Staying On
 Dr. Klagholz, who will be elevated from an assistant commissioner's position to head the Department of Education, has made a name for himself as an educational innovator and a stickler for financial accountability.
He will have to deal with an expected court-ordered overhaul of the state's $5 billion school aid program and in addition begin the state's first program, still experimental, to give parents a greater choice of schools for their children within in the Jersey City system. These ventures are fraught with policy decisions that could anger teachers in the state's most politically powerful public employees union, the New Jersey Education Association.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Whitman has been willing, just as Mr. Florio was, to hold on to some Cabinet members from the previous administration. She is retaining Dr. Edward D. Goldberg as Commissioner of Higher Education, who was first appointed to the post by Mr. Florio.
And she will retain William Waldman, Mr. Florio's Commissioner of Human Services, who helped rewrite the state's welfare program , which Mrs. Whitman criticized during the campaign. Besides offering education and training opportunities for welfare recipients, the program disallows increases in welfare stipends for additional children to mothers on welfare.
Arthur R. Brown, who has been Secretary of Agriculture since 1982, has also been asked to stay on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); LOBBYING (70%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



462 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Companies Hear U.S. Trade Appeals

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 17

 BODY:
After months of fruitless trade negotiations with the Japanese Government, the Clinton Administration is taking a new tack. It has begun to talk directly to Japanese companies, urging them to buy more foreign products and take other actions on their own to reduce Japan's huge trade surplus.
The direct appeal to the companies is partly an effort to circumvent Japan's bureaucrats, whom American officials accuse of being recalcitrant and responsible for the current stalemate in negotiations under a new framework for trade talks agreed to by the two nations in July. 
 Some trade experts argue that even beyond the current negotiations, dealing directly with Japanese companies could become a more effective way of achieving American goals than working through the Japanese Government. But so far, concrete results from such an approach are difficult to pinpoint.
"We are attempting to break new ground in how complex negotiations involving big industries will be dealt with," said Jeffrey E. Garten, Under Secretary of Commerce for international trade. "There will have to be some kind of overlap between public and private involvement."
But such a strategy carries a risk of undermining the American bargaining position in the framework talks. Tokyo has resisted American demands to establish goals for increasing the sales of foreign goods and services in Japan, arguing that the Government cannot control the purchasing decisions of private companies and individuals.
By talking to companies directly, Washington seems to be agreeing with this argument, at least for automobiles and auto parts.
"The fact is, the big issues in the automotive sector are driven by the companies themselves," Mr. Garten, the chief American negotiator on autos and auto parts, said in an interview over the weekend. "To think the Government is going to press a button and say, 'We're going to change the trade balance' is a mirage."
 
 
Meeting Japanese Executives
 During two trips to Japan, this month and last, Mr. Garten called on the top executives of Japan's leading auto makers. Some industry and Government officials say these visits reflect more the personal style of Mr. Garten than a new strategy by Washington. But others said they expected Washington to expand these personal contacts with corporate executives.
American officials also met this month with the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, urging it to buy more foreign equipment. An N.T.T. spokesman said, however, that the meeting focused on a previous trade agreement on the company's procurement.
In the framework negotiations, the United States has been arguing that N.T.T.'s purchases should be included in any agreement on Japan's Government procurement of telecommunications equipment, because two-thirds of the telephone company is still owned by the state. Japan argues that N.T.T. is a private company.
American officials have talked directly with Japanese companies in the past, as they did during previous negotiations on semiconductors. But the emphasis Mr. Garten puts on the visits "seems to be quite higher than in the past," said one official of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
This official, who spoke on the condition he not be identified, said the ministry appreciated Mr. Garten's recognition of the importance of the private sector and was hopeful it would help to break the ice in the stalled negotiations.
Mr. Garten said he did not think he was undermining Washington's bargaining position by approaching the companies directly, saying the United States is still making many requests of the Japanese Government as well. In addition, he said, the automobile sector is different from other sectors in the framework talks, several of which involve Government procurement.
In his meetings with the top executives of Toyota, Nissan and other auto makers, Mr. Garten urged them to buy more American parts and give more research, development and management jobs to Americans. He has also asked them to make it easier for their Japanese dealers to carry foreign cars. Mr. Garten said he had been treated "graciously" by the companies. And although it may not have been a direct consequence of his visit, both Nissan and Toyota suggested last week that some of their Japanese dealers were considering selling vehicles made by Ford.
For their part, Japanese auto executives say Mr. Garten's visits are unusual, but they welcome the chance to explain their side, particularly the hard times they are facing. "This is the first time a U.S. Government official came to visit us at Honda," said Nobuhiko Kawamoto, president of the Honda Motor Company.
The visits seem to suggest that one way out of the stalemate in the framework talks would be for Japan's auto companies to set voluntary goals for buying foreign auto parts or selling foreign cars through their dealers. That would allow Japan's Government to avoid agreeing to targets while giving Washington the measurable results it is seeking.
But Japanese officials say there is little chance the companies will agree to this. They announced such voluntary plans in January 1992, when President George Bush visited Japan.
Some companies, however, now regret having made these plans because Japan's prolonged economic slump, unforeseen at the time, will make it difficult for them to reach the goals. In addition, Japan says the United States has "misconstrued" the voluntary plan as a pledge and is holding Japan to it.
Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., president of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, argues that Japanese companies, which now have big sales or big operations in the United States, are subject to Washington's influence just as they are subject to Tokyo's.
"When the President calls up the head of a U.S. company, typically the phone is answered, and if there is an invitation to the White House, typically he goes," Mr. Prestowitz, a former trade negotiator, said during a recent visit to Japan. "The President has the ability to make business bad or good. He has this power over the Japanese as well."
In a sense, the new approach would mean that the United States was engaging in administrative guidance, just as Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry does with Japanese companies.
"For most of the postwar period, we have in effect turned over our dirty work to MITI," Mr. Prestowitz said. For instance, rather than restrict imports of cars from Japan in the 1980's, the United States let the Japanese ministry institute voluntary export restraints, he said.
But if having operations in the United States makes Japanese companies susceptible to pressure from Washington, it also gives them a means to fight back. Japanese companies can use American employees, suppliers and local officials to lobby against American policies they do not like.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NTT (NYSE) (63%); NPN (LSE) (63%); 9432 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (63%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



463 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Leo Larkin, City's Legal Chief Under Mayor Wagner, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Leo A. Larkin, New York City's Corporation Counsel for the last term of Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens.
The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 As the city's chief law officer from May 1961 to the end of 1965, Mr. Larkin presided over one of the country's biggest law offices, with a staff of 320 lawyers. He also had supervisory jurisdiction over more than 75 lawyers in other city agencies.
He took on some celebrated cases. In one of them the city acquired the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines and its subsidiary, Surface Transit Inc., and brought them under the wing of the Transit Authority. Other noted proceedings before the trial and appellate courts concerned New York Telephone Company rates, reorganization of the Long Island Rail Road, takeover of land for industrial redevelopment, the election of city councilmen-at-large, and the constitutionality of Charter revision.
 
Known for Conciseness
 On more than one occasion, he toiled through two nights and a day without sleep while preparing a case. Fellow lawyers admired his briefs as examples of conciseness and orderly argument. He also was known for the ability to relax completely when the pressure was off.
A friend once said that he "makes a martini the same way he writes a brief -- he measures everything with meticulous care, with nothing left to chance or inspiration."
Upon leaving office, he was elected vice president, secretary and general counsel of W. R. Grace & Company, a diversified multinational corporation. He retired in 1982.
Leo Arthur Larkin was born in New York City, the second eldest of 10 children of an architect and an engineer. He was an outstanding scholar of Latin, Greek, English and economics at Fordham University and graduated cum laude in 1932. He received his law degree from Fordham in 1935 and subsequently studied accounting as well as income, franchise, gift and estate tax law at New York University Law School.
 
Served in Navy
 In World War II, Mr. Larkin was commissioned into the Navy and served three years, part of them as secretary of the Navy Price Adjustment Board, and held the rank of lieutenant when discharged. He then joined the New York law firm of Regan & Barrett but resigned in 1954 when he was named First Assistant Corporation Counsel in Mayor Wagner's first administration.
Mr. Larkin is survived by his wife of 52 years, Eleanor Freaney Larkin; his daughter, Susan, of Manhattan; two sons, Paul, of Dallas, and Leo, of Forest Hills; four sisters, Rita Cuskley of Mamaroneck, N.Y., Patricia Smith of Denver, Eileen Reid of Hackensack, N.J., and Sister Kathleen Larkin of San Antonio, and two grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leo A. Larkin (The New York Times, 1961)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON NEW YORK INC (69%); W R GRACE & CO (66%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); NAVIES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); JURISDICTION (75%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (73%); TAX LAW (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); WORLD WAR II (61%); CANCER (57%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (55%); APPEALS COURTS (54%); ESTATE TAX (50%); GIFT TAX (50%); 

PERSON: LARKIN, LEO A; SAXON, WOLFGANG

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



464 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1912 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE: The Overview;
SEVERE EARTHQUAKE HITS LOS ANGELES; AT LEAST 30 KILLED; FREEWAYS COLLAPSE

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 17

 BODY:
A violent earthquake jolted millions of people out of bed before dawn today, crumpling freeway overpasses, leveling buildings and igniting scores of fires. Hundreds of people were injured and at least 24 were reported killed, including 14 at a three-level apartment complex that was reduced to two stories.
The quake, centered in the Northridge area in the San Fernando Valley, 20 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles, measured 6.6 on the Richter scale of ground motion and was felt for hundreds of miles, knocking out power and water service for hundreds of thousands of residents. 
 In a region held together by its network of freeways, three overpasses collapsed, crippling major highways for weeks and possibly months. Roads cracked and buckled across the San Fernando Valley.
 
State of Emergency
 People lingered on the streets throughout the day as the thuds of aftershocks sent dust rising above the mountains. Others formed long lines outside hardware stores and tried to buy batteries, water, propane or plywood to repair damaged homes. And when evening came, hundreds of people whose homes were destroyed or too dangerous to re-enter camped in city parks and on tennis courts in a nervously festive atmosphere, some of them with campfires and cases of beer.
A state of emergency was declared at the local, state and Federal levels in this latest disaster to strike the city. Aerial pictures of blocks of burning buildings evoked traumatic memories of the 1992 riots and last autumn's wildfires.
"I couldn't stop screaming as I ran out of the house," said Erik Wyler, 19, still shaking an hour after the quake. "I looked up and all I could see was darkness coming toward us, and it got real windy. I thought it was the sun exploding."
Hundreds of buildings were damaged, including Anaheim Stadium, which was expected to need $3.4 million in repairs. The earthquake, which struck at 4:31 A.M., was not the strongest to hit the region in recent years but was by far the most destructive because it struck in a heavily populated area.
 
Curfew Is Imposed
 The Chief of Police, Willie L. Williams addressed the city on television this evening, telling people to remain calm and to stay home from work on Tuesday if possible. He said that city offices would be open on Tuesday but that schools in the Los Angeles Unified School District would be closed.
He also announced a dusk-to-dawn curfew and issued a warning against any potential looters, with reference to the rampage that overtook the city during the 1992 riots.
"We're not going to tolerate what took place a year and a half ago," he said. Half a dozen people were arrested in downtown Los Angeles today for looting.
Late in the day, 90 percent of the city remained without power, and utility officials said electricity would be unavailable in certain areas for up to three days.
Officials urged San Fernando Valley residents to boil drinking water because power was lost to machinery that chlorinates the region's water.
Hardest hit was the Northridge section of the city near California State University, where a three-story apartment building collapsed into its bottom floor. As rescuers used hydraulic drills and diamond-blade saws to dig for survivors, shaken residents described "a rumbling, ripping noise," that seemed to tear the whole building apart.
But mixed with stories of death were tales of amazing rescues. In a shopping center, firefighters struggled to reach a street cleaner they knew only as Salvador, who was trapped in his sweeping machine in an underground garage. As tremors continued to shake the building, firefighters shored up the rubble with wooden struts and fed him air and water. More than eight hours later he was pulled out alive.
The Santa Monica Freeway, or Interstate 10, which is the nation's busiest freeway, was rendered impassable. A section of the Simi Valley Freeway also collapsed. And the four-level intersection between Interstate 5, the main north-south artery on the West Coast, and Highway 14, was splintered into fragments of concrete and steel.
In a grotesque image of Southern California destruction, sections of the lacy cloverleaf of Highway 14 that soars 75 feet above I-5 lay tangled on the ground, support beams sprouting above the rubble like broken bones. When the overpass collapsed, it took with it a police officer on motorcycle who tumbled through the air to his death.
 
Like a Bomb
 Officials said the dead also included a person who fell from a sixth-floor window at a downtown hotel; a woman who broke her neck when she slipped and hit her head on a baby crib; two people whose home in Sherman Oaks slid down a hillside, and five people who died of heart attacks because of the quake.
The earthquake struck with a shuddering jolt that some residents likened to a bomb blast and others to a ride on a roller coaster. For 30 seconds, bookcases, crockery and even refrigerators were thrown through the air, and on the streets outside, car alarms could be heard under the still-swaying trees as far as the ear could hear. Then, after a long, breathless silence, the sirens of rescue vehicles began.
In Mission Hills, Luz Becerra was in the shower when the earthquake struck. "It picked me up and knocked me over to the bed," she said. "I was crying, 'Please, God, please, God, don't let anything happen to me."'
In West Los Angeles, Jossein Vameghi said: "Things were moving in both directions, up and down and crossways. I was terrified. I thought I was going to vomit. I ran to the door."
On the still-dark streets outside, as people asked each other what had happened, electrical transformers exploded into flames. Suddenly, some streets were engulfed in fire, blackening rows of parked cars. In some places, broken water mains turned streets into fast-rushing rivers.
In Santa Monica, Alan Hunter took refuge in his car only moments before a gas line exploded and demolished his apartment.
Other gas explosions set entire blocks aflame in the Sylmar section. At least 44 homes, some in a mobile-home park, were destroyed, and the neighborhood was reduced to rubble, resembling streets destroyed by the Southern California wildfires only two months ago.
 
Jump to Safety
 At the apartment complex that collapsed, the Northridge Meadows, Sheila Chulick, a 34-year-old college student, jumped from her second-story balcony when the exits became blocked.
"I crawled around but all the exits were blocked," she said, describing the blackness of the smoke and strange terrain of broken walls and debris. "People were freaking out and yelling all over the streets. I was just glad to be alive. I have nothing left but my life."
A 64-car freight train derailed between the Chatsworth and Northridge sections, leaking sulfuric acid from a tanker, a Southern Pacific Railroad spokesman, Jack Martin, told The Associated Press. Crews were cleaning up the spill.
At the Northridge Fashion Center, the Bullocks department store collapsed into a gnarled pile of concrete and steel. Windows were shattered throughout the mall, and the parking structure was flattened into a 20-foot-high pile of rubble.
One of two aqueducts that carry water from the Sierra Nevada to Los Angeles was ruptured, and water mains broke in several neighborhoods. Telephone service was lost throughout the region and power was disrupted as far away as Canada. Los Angeles International Airport was briefly closed as a precaution.
 
White House Response
 Gov. Pete Wilson and Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles each declared a state of emergency. California National Guard troops were sent in, and the Office of Emergency Services sent about 300 search-and-rescue teams equipped with fiber-optic sensors and other gear to detect structural flaws and find victims.
In Washington, President Clinton said he was told of the earthquake at about 8 A.M. Eastern time in a phone call from Housing Secretary Henry G. Cisneros. This afternoon, he signed an official declaration of disaster, making aid available for rebuilding highways and schools, low-interest loans and emergency unemployment funds.
"I ask the American people to remember the people of Los Angeles County in their thoughts and prayers today," Mr. Clinton said.
Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Cisneros; the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, James Lee Witt, and Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena left this afternoon for Los Angeles.
When asked whether he would also fly to the scene, Mr. Clinton said, "I think it's important that I not go out there and get in the way."
For all its damage, the quake was not the long-predicted Big One that experts fear will cause catastrophic damage someday. It was neither as powerful nor as deadly as the quake that hit the San Francisco Bay area on Oct. 17, 1989, which killed 63 people.
Seismologists at the California Institute of Technology said the earthquake hit on a previously unknown branch of a fault that is part of a network of fissures that trembles constantly underneath the Los Angeles area.
It is part of a system that is responsible for a 5.9 magnitude quake that was involved in the 1987 Whittier Narrows earthquake, said Kate Hutton of Caltech. She said it appeared to be about nine miles under the ground but did not break the surface in visible fissures.
 
Strong Aftershocks
 Throughout the day, strong aftershocks as high as 5.5 on the Richter scale continued to jolt the area in what Ms. Hutton said was a classic pattern. Officials warned residents of the danger of re-entering buildings that could have suffered structural damage.
The jolts shook buildings in San Diego, 125 miles to the south, and in Las Vegas, Nev., 275 miles to the northeast, and brief power failures were reported as far north as British Columbia.
Some hospitals were overwhelmed with injuries. At Holy Cross Medical Center in Sylmar, an emergency room admissions officer, Toni Regaldo, said the injuries included heart attacks, broken bones, lacerations and "a lot of blood." At the Granada Hills Community Hospital, officials set up a makeshift emergency room in the parking lot where hundreds of people were treated. The hospital itself suffered considerable damage and was operating on a generator.
Just yards away, the Kaiser Permanente administration building was all but demolished, its midsection squashed and its walls yawning open. Several buildings at the Sepulveda Veterans Administration Hospital were also damaged, forcing evacuation of more than 300 patients.
In Anaheim, about 40 miles southeast of the epicenter, Anaheim Stadium was littered with debris and the "Big A" sign and the giant replay screen leaned precariously over the upper deck. A game between Los Angeles and Sacramento was canceled.
 The New York Times report on the earthquake was reported and written by Sandra Blakeslee, Bill Carter, Ashley Dunn, Jonathan Fuerbringer, Philipp M. Gollner, Jane Gross, Dirk Johnson, Elizabeth Kolbert, Seth Mydans, Jonathan Rabinovitz, Calvin Sims and Bernard Weinraub in Los Angeles; Malcolm W. Browne, Walter Goodman and Maria Newman in New York and Martin Tolchin in Washington.
Photographs were contributed by Scott Robinson, Marissa Roth, Jan Sonnenmair and Jim Wilson.
Maps and graphics were provided by Arnold Bombay, Baden Copeland, Newman Huh, Patrick Lyons, John Papasian, Rachel Powell and Julie Shaver.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The body of a motorcycle police officer lying near the wreckage of his vehicle in the center of an overpass that collapsed onto Interstate 5. He drove off the edge and fell 25 feet. (Reuters); An injured man being treated at an emergency unit set up outside Olive View Medical Center in Sylmar. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); After the earthquake struck in Southern California, Ray Hudson reacted as a friend's home went up in flames at the Oak Ridge Trailor Park in Sylmar. Mr. Hudson, who lost his home in an earthquake that hit the area in 1971, did not lose his trailer yesterday. (Associated Press); A collapsed garage in the Northridge Fashion Center, where a street sweeper was pulled out alive, was reduced to a pile of concrete and steel. (Reuters) (pg. A17)
 
Table: "California's Previous Quakes"
 Some of the quakes of magnitude 6.1 or grater on the Richter scale. The measurement for 1906 San Francisco quake is an estimate, because the quake occurred before the Richter scale was developed.

1	1906	San Francisco	8.3	2	1952	Tehachapi-Bakersfield	7.7	3	1927	Offshore San Luis Obispo	7.7	4	1992	Landers	7.4	5	1923	North Coast	7.2	6	1989	San Francisco	7.1	7	1980	Eureka	7/0	8	1992	Ferndale (three)	6.3-6.9	9	1940	Imperial Valley	6.7	10	1994	Northridge	6.6	11	1980	Mammoth Lakes	6.5	12	1992	Big Bear	6.5	13	1983	Coalinga	6.5	14	1971	San Fernando-Sylmar	6.5	15	1979	Imperial Valley	6.4	16	1968	Anza-Borrego Mountains	6.4	17	1992	Los Angeles	6.3	18	1933	Long Beach	6.3	19	1925	Santa Barbara	6.3	20	1984	MorganHill	6.2	21	1987	Los Angeles	6.1	
 
(pg. A17)
 
Map of California showing areas of earthquakes of magnitude of 6.1 on the Richter scale. (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); EUREKA, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); EUREKA, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); FIRES AND FIREMEN; CURFEWS EARTHQUAKES (94%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); CURFEW (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); RIOTS (88%); FIRES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (67%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (66%); ARRESTS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); HARDWARE STORES (53%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (52%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



465 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
PRISON FOR 2 GERMAN SKINHEADS
Two German skinheads who attacked a group of American athletes in October were sentenced to prison, one for two years and eight months and the other for one year. A3
 

DE KLERK COURTS ZULU KING
F. W. de Klerk tried to win the support of the King of the Zulus, Goodwill Zwelethini, for South Africa's universal elections in April. A3
 
YELTSIN TRIES TO KEEP A TOP AIDE
President Yeltsin accepted the resignation of Yegor T. Gaidar, the architect of Russia's economic reforms, and negotiated to retain the Finance Minister, Boris G. Fyodorov. A6
 
ISRAEL HOPEFUL, WARY ON SYRIA
Israel said it saw greater promise of peace with Syria, but expressed extreme caution about the Syrian President's statement that he was ready for normal relations. A8
 
MEXICO ENVOY HEARS FROM REBELS
A special Mexican envoy said the Government had received its first formal contact from rebels in the peasant uprising in the south. A10
 
SAUDI DEAL IS NEAR ON PAYMENTS
Saudi Arabia is nearing agreement with five of the biggest American military contractors to stretch out $10 billion in payments that are due over the next two years. A8
 
DISCORD AT MEETING ON HAITI
The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide ended a gathering of Haitian politicians with a call to unite against the military in Haiti, but the gathering exposed basic differences among those who back his presidency. A10
 
ARGENTINA TO JOIN ATOM TREATY
Argentina plans to end four decades of defiant policies by joining Latin America's agreement against the spread of nuclear arms. A10
 
WAR-CRIMES EFFORT CALLED SLOW
The United States delegate to the United Nations has accused unspecified countries of not cooperating with efforts to prosecute war criminals in the former Yugoslavia. A10
 
John Major denied any role in the export of weapons to Iraq. A6
 
Paris Journal: Pamela Harriman brings some cachet to her job. A4
 
National A14-21, B10
 
BIG QUAKE HITS LOS ANGELES
A strong predawn earthquake near Los Angeles snapped highway overpasses, leveled buildings, ignited scores of fires, cut off electricity and water to millions, killed at least 30 people and injured hundreds. A1
 
APARTMENT HOUSE COLLAPSE
In the apartment building where the loss of life in the earthquake was greatest, shaken residents remembered waking up to find themselves airborne, falling into the floors below. At least 15 people were killed when the building fell. A1
 
TRANSPORTATION NIGHTMARE
In the metropolitan area that most depends on the car and the truck to carry on its life, the destruction of primary superhighways is a colossal blow, and one that will be felt for months. A1
 
FINDING A NEW WAY OF LIFE
The streets were ghostly, the litter and clutter of destruction everywhere, but slowly in tentative and sometimes unexpected ways the people of the Los Angeles area began to reinvent ways to carry out the business of living in their rattled city. A1
 
The highway renovation program helped, engineers said. A18
 
Devastation in a neighborhood close to the earthquake's epicenter. A19
 
The geology of how the earthquake occurred and why. A20
 
Electricity, gas, telephones and water services suffered. A20
 
Federal disaster teams went to the area immediately. A21
 
SWARTHMORE CAMPUS ABUZZ
It was not the paralyzing snow storm that was the talk of the campus as students returned to Swarthmore. Rather it was the case of the student accused of sexual harassment and intimidation. A14
 
Two old cases involving race are back in Mississippi courts. A14
 
At a King observance, the President promoted his programs. B10
 
The Clinton real estate matter is going to a grand jury. B10
 
Metro Digest B1
 
Science Times C1-13
 
A new view of the shifting boundaries of the desert. C1
 
A mysterious royal burial in the Yucatan. C1
 
A cancer gene shows fingerprints of environmental damage.C1
 
A new understanding of how TB becomes resistant to drugs. C3
 
Projections of the impact of global warming on human hunger. C4
 
Personal Computers C9
 
Q&A C9
 
Peripherals C11
 
Sports B12-17
 
Baseball: Owners meet again on old issues. B17
 
Basketball: Ewing paces Knick victory. B13
 
Georgetown tops Seton Hall. B16
 
Columns: Anderson on Montana B13
 
TV Sports B14
 
On Basketball B16
 
Figure Skating: Inquiry into money trail.B13
 
Skaters return to ice. B15
 
Old champions face new. B15
 
Football: Salary cap and Giants. B13
 
Giants' spirit is unbroken. B14
 
Hockey: Panthers edge Islanders. B15
 
Tennis: Courier gains in five sets. B17
 
Fashion Page B11
 
Couture recalls bygone glamour.
 
Patterns
 
Business Digest D1
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Obituaries D23
 
Leo A. Larkin, lawyer.
 
Herve Alphand, former French Ambassador to the United States.
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
A daring German theater director takes center stage. C15
 
One-day strike at the Modern. C15
 
Bronze Age bells from China show technical virtuosity. C15
 
Music: Marilyn Horne tribute. C15
 
Orchestra of Westchester. C17
 
Dance: Hungarian folk works. C17
 
Books: Louise Erdrich returns to North Dakota. C20
 
Television: Limits of code breaking. C20
 
Mentally ill on the streets. C20
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
Tests for Mr. Giuliani.
 
A warning exit in Moscow.
 
Aftershock.
 
The Veep signs on.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: The won't-do guy.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Giuliani, violence and trouble-peddlers.
 
Scott Anderson: The price of peace in Ulster.
 
Daniel Pipes: Trust Assad? Not yet.
 
Bridge C16
 
Chronicle B5
 
Chess C20
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); SYRIA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); SYRIA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SENTENCING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); EARTHQUAKES (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); ARMS TRADE (64%); WAR CRIMES (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: FREDERIK WILLEM 'F W' DE KLERK (58%); JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



466 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
The industry continues to struggle with a poor record in hiring and promoting minorities.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
ASKING J. Melvin (Jo) Muse about the advertising industry's woeful inability to recruit, hire, train and promote members of minority groups is like lighting a fuse.
"I'm literally sick of the discussion," said Mr. Muse, chairman and chief creative director at Muse Cordero Chen Inc., an agency in Los Angeles. "I don't even want to talk about it. 
 "I find it intolerable that the business I've given my life to is still dealing with the same damn problem."
Though the industry does not compile statistics, data from the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate that only 5.2 percent of all positions at the nation's advertising, marketing and public relations companies are held by blacks. And among managers and professional-level employees, the figure is a minuscule 2.1 percent, according to Black Enterprise magazine -- ranking 336th out of 351 occupations tracked by the bureau.
The absence of talent from minority groups including blacks, Asian-Americans and the Spanish-speaking remains pervasive despite efforts dating from the late 1960's to broaden their representation. And it persists even as the industry seeks to develop expertise to aim sales pitches at increasingly multicultural consumer markets.
"It doesn't improve one year to another or one decade to another," said Harry Jacobs, chairman and chief executive officer at the Martin Agency in Richmond. "It's really disturbing."
"It isn't the priority it should be," he added. "We've got a lot of work to do."
O. Burtch Drake, executive vice president and chief operating officer at the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the industry trade organization in New York known as the Four A's, agreed that "minority penetration at nonminority agencies is very, very low, particularly in professional jobs."
"To be honest with you," he said, "I can't name one famous black copywriter."
What accounts for this sea of white faces in advertising, an industry that highly values members of minority groups as consumers, product endorsers and sources of creative inspiration -- from slang terms like calling McDonald's "Mickey D's" to commercial jingles based on rap and hip-hop music?
"We're an underground industry," said Caroline R. Jones, president and creative director at Caroline Jones Advertising in New York, who is among a handful of black female agency executives.
"Most people cannot name an advertising agency," she added, "and that aggravates a lack of exposure of the industry to young people."
Tina Scott, a junior at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, who has worked at Martin for almost two years under a minority internship program called Inroads, offered other reasons.
"Historically, advertising has always been such a good old boy, male-dominated business," said Ms. Scott, who is 20.
"It puzzles me and it upsets me," she added. "To some extent, I feel I'm pushing against the tide."
A more recent reality exacerbating the problem has been the industry's severe recession, which began in 1989 and has forced the dismissals of thousands of employees and the closing of many agencies.
"With so many people out on the street," Mike Hughes, vice chairman and creative director at Martin, said, "it's hard to look people in the eye and say, 'We need to make this industry attractive to another 12 or 13 percent of the population.' "
Mr. Drake of the Four A's said that as a result, with opportunities limited in advertising, "some of the very best and the very brightest" members of minority groups "have gone to work for client companies, the media and minority-owned agencies."
Still, the industry has been expanding programs intended to diversify its work force. Jay Chiat, chairman and chief executive at Chiat/Day Inc. in Venice, Calif., has been instrumental in developing and financing a Minority Advertising Training program in metropolitan Los Angeles. The Four A's sponsors a program called the Minority Advertising Intern Program, under which 40 to 50 college and graduate students spend their summers working at shops across the country.
Ms. Scott, for one, is undaunted by the industry's dismal track record.
Asked if she plans to go into advertising after graduating, she replied, "Definitely."
"Working hard is something I've always done," she said.
If Ms. Scott and other young people like her are unsuccessful in entering advertising, Mr. Muse has a warning that will likely strike fear in an essentially entrepreneurial industry.
"If we don't do something about this ourselves," he said, "the Government will come in and fix it."
"I'll find myself testifying against the agency business," he added. "I don't want to, but if it has to happen, so be it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (86%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: BLACK ENTERPRISE MAGAZINE; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) MUSE CORDERO CHEN & PARTNERS (58%); MARTIN AGENCY INC (54%); CAROLINE JONES ADVERTISING INC (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLACK ENTERPRISE MAGAZINE; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (86%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); DISCRIMINATION MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (73%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); WRITERS (68%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); RAP MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



467 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Bond Prices Slip Overseas

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices slipped slightly yesterday in very light trading overseas. But the market for Treasury securities and other Government securities was closed in the United States in observance of the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
The Treasury postponed its weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills until today. Still, there was light trading in corporate bonds. 
 In London, the Treasury's 30-year bond fell 3/32 of a percentage point, to 999/32 , as the yield edged up to 6.30 percent from 6.29 percent.
 
 
Housing Report
 The bond market is awaiting this week's Government report on housing starts for further signs of whether the economy is strengthening. Strong economic growth could encourage the Federal Reserve to push up interest rates to head off any new inflation.
In addition, many traders are concerned about the recent rise in commodity prices, which could point to a re-emergence of inflation.
The municipal bond market was also closed yesterday, so it was unclear what immediate impact, if any, the Los Angeles earthquake would have on the debt of cities and counties in Southern California.
But municipal bond analysts did not believe the earthquake would affect bond ratings.
The analysts said their assessments were based on damage reports they had seen on television. In recent years, California cities and counties have withstood severe earthquakes without having their credit ratings lowered.
 
 
'Not Overly Concerned'
 "We're not overly concerned based on past history," said Tom Kenney, director of municipal research for Franklin Resources Inc. in Mountain View, Calif. Franklin's mutual funds own more than $14 billion in California bonds.
The City of Los Angeles has about $6.8 billion in municipal debt, including general obligation bonds, lease obligations and revenue issues. The general obligation debt is rated Aa1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and AA by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Chris Irwin, a director in Standard & Poor's San Francisco office, said that "over the following weeks" the rating company would assess earthquake damage done to specific projects that were financed by bonds.
Officials at Moody's were not available for comment on their plans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (81%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (81%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS BONDS (97%); TREASURY SECURITIES (95%); BOND MARKETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); EARTHQUAKES (87%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); HOUSING STARTS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68) MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



468 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Closes Mixed And Gold Rises Worldwide

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar settled mixed in light, uneventful trading yesterday.
Gold prices rose worldwide. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery gained $2.10 to settle at $392.20 an ounce. 
 Trading was subdued in the United States. The Treasury bond market and most banks, which are major players in worldwide currency trading, were closed in observance of the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
"There really was not much going on," said Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus Econometric Group. "The dollar was just consolidating, not going anywhere in very quiet holiday trading."
The only news to move the market was the resignation of Yegor T. Gaidar, First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia and a key supporter of economic reform. His action leaves the ranks of reformers severely depleted.
The news took its greatest toll on the German mark, which was pushed lower, since Germany is perceived to be the European nation that stands to benefit most from economic expansion in the former Soviet Union.
Elsewhere, favorable economic data in Britain helped bolster the pound. The Government reported a modest rise in producer prices while both industrial production and manufacturing output were up slightly more than expected, Donney said.
"That helped the pound, especially against the mark," he said.
The dollar, for the most part, remained out of the spotlight. Trading was expected to return to normal levels today, when banks reopen and their currency traders are back at their desks.
In late New York trading, the dollar rose to 111.05 Japanese yen, from 110.98 on Friday. It also rose to 1.7535 German marks from 1.7495.
The British pound rose to $1.4935 in New York from $1.4934. Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.4770 Swiss francs, down from 1.4781; 5.9540 French francs, up from 5.9415; 1,706.00 Italian lire, up from 1,704.00, and 1.3178 Canadian dollars, down from 1.3248.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING CURRENCIES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BRITISH POUND (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BONDS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



469 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Is it now the time for some bottom fishing in the oil patch?

BYLINE: By Agis Salpukas 

 BODY:
WITH crude oil prices in the doldrums and likely to stay there, now may not seem like the time to buy oil company stocks. But oil analysts say there are some special opportunities, especially among the domestic oil companies, including ARCO, Phillips Petroleum, Pennzoil and Amarada Hess. Some, however, acknowledge that the best time to buy may be six months from now, when oil prices start moving.
Simon Trimble, an oil analyst at Lehman Brothers, says that because of pessimism over the future price of oil, the domestic oil stocks have taken a rougher beating in the market than have the large international companies, which generally can better weather regional economic downturns because they get their oil and market their products globally. 
 But the situation has created some bargains.
"The clear advantage that the domestics have is that the United States is coming out of the recession very rapidly, whereas the internationals are faced with ongoing recessions in Europe and Japan," he explains.
Another plus is that the recent cold and storms in the East have firmed up demand for natural gas and heating oil. That will particularly benefit the domestic producers, which market most of their products in the United States.
In fact, as winter weather swept over much of the country yesterday, crude oil prices staged a small recovery. Heating oil and natural gas prices also rose.
Another benefit: oil companies generally have strong yields from dividends.
But some analysts warn that oil prices are in a holding pattern -- and oil stocks, therefore, remain in the same condition.
"The market was certain that OPEC would step in early to drive oil prices higher by cutting production at an emergency meeting in the latter part of January," Mr. Trimble says. "What's happened is that the market has begun to realize that the chance of calling such an emergency meeting is falling fast."
As a result, oil prices are expected to continue to stand at about $14 to $16 a barrel most of the year. For the first six months of 1993, the price averaged about $19 a barrel.
"It's premature to be buying these stocks," says William Randol, an oil analyst with Salomon Brothers. "There is still more carnage that lies ahead."
Mr. Randol says that although demand for gasoline was up more than expected last year, 2.3 percent from 1992, that has less to do with the economic recovery than with the more narrow reason that consumers are buying larger, less-fuel-efficient vehicles -- like small trucks. Such consumer tastes often fluctuate year to year.
Nevertheless, Jim Clark, an oil analyst at First Boston, says there are some attractive buys.
"The way to make money is to buy stocks that are relatively inexpensive in the group," he says.
One of his favorites is Amoco, which has a dividend yield of 4 percent, has low debt and is one of the least expensive stocks given its potential strong position. The stock closed at $53.875 yesterday, up 50 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.
In addition, Mr. Clark adds, the company has a strong position in natural gas in North America. Natural gas prices have a better chance of holding up in North America than those of crude oil because demand for gas has been high and prices have been rising.
Small additions to capacity in refineries could also help Amoco, which could become the largest refiner east of the Rocky Mountains in the next few years, strengthening its ability to market its products in the East and Midwest.
"Even in a weak crude oil environment," he adds, "there will be stocks that will outperform the rest."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ARCO INC; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO; PENNZOIL CO; AMARADA HESS CO CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARCO INC; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO; PENNZOIL CO; AMARADA HESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; PRICES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); DIVIDENDS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); BONDS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); 

PERSON: ;SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



470 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: In German Theater, A Daring Director Takes Center Stage

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany, Jan. 16

 BODY:
There are probably more full-year repertory theaters, more actors, more performances, more new plays and more theatergoers in the German-speaking countries than in the rest of the world combined. Most of this enormous activity remains unknown to American audiences, given the language barrier. Very occasionally, a German company will make it across the ocean, as the Thalia Theater of Hamburg did last fall with "The Black Rider" at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. But there is more to theater in Germany, and even in Hamburg, than the Thalia. Right now, the hot item in the German-speaking theater world is the Thalia's main Hamburg rival, the Deutsches Schauspielhaus, or German Theater.
The Schauspielhaus is in the news because of the arrival this season of Frank Baumbauer as its new intendant, or director. Mr. Baumbauer, 48, comes from Munich and got started there and in Dusseldorf as a stage director. From 1983 to 1986 he was intendant at the Bavarian State Theater in Munich and, after a year's stopover in Stuttgart, served from 1988 to 1993 as director of the Basel Theater in Switzerland, where he was in charge of the entire theatrical operation, including opera and dance. 
 His arrival here, and the flurry of premieres he presented throughout the fall, has been big news in Germany, with articles in the national magazines and newspapers as well as in most of the major local papers. Mr. Baumbauer was seriously wooed by at least two other German cities before deciding on Hamburg, and he won concessions that bucked the prevailing budget-cutting trend.
What he got, he said in an interview on Saturday, was a restoration of the city's subsidy to the level it had enjoyed in the late 1980's, adjusted for inflation. That means $22 million for an overall budget of $24 million, the difference made up mostly by the box office. In addition, Mr. Baumbauer won a budgetary increase that enabled him to hire seven more technicians and spend $5 million for backstage improvements.
"People have lost faith in these big state theaters," Mr. Baumbauer said. "What I am trying to bring here is the belief that one can run a theater of this size efficiently and effectively."
The Deutsches Schauspielhaus, with some 1,300 seats (the number varies with the adjustable configuration) the largest theater for spoken drama in the country, had fallen on evil days. A series of star directors had tried to administer the company but had been unable to stay within budget (especially after it began to be whittled away in the late 80's) or to maintain excellence throughout the repertory, even in plays they themselves did not direct.
By all accounts what distinguished Mr. Baumbauer's Basel tenure was his ability to create an ensemble spirit that in turn attracted some of the brightest lights among Germany's roving playwrights and directors. And as a full-time administrator, he was able to devote his full attention to the business of running the company.
"Honestly, it depends on the personality," he said diplomatically. "Strong personalities like Claus Peymann in Vienna, Jurgen Flimm at the Thalia or Dieter Dorn in Munich can build good teams around them and afford to spend eight weeks in rehearsal. I need the whole day just to be intendant. Also, I enjoy it."
 
Defections and Additions
 Theoretically, Hamburg has a company of 40 actors, but by the time Mr. Baumbauer arrived, that had eroded to fewer than 25. He kept 10 of those, brought eight actors from Basel (along with five artistic and technical people) and hired 22 actors from around the German-speaking world who wished to work with him.
The result has been a troupe that "has already proven itself spectacular competition for the Thalia," said the monthly Prinz, Hamburg's leading cultural-listings magazine. For his opening months, Mr. Baumbauer introduced new works by leading German playwrights, developed a provocative series of small-space and late-night experimental pieces, offered the first German production of the first part of Tony Kushner's "Angels in America," and brought in Leander Haussmann, the new young star among German stage directors, for Shakespeare's "Troilus und Cressida."
Although attendance, at 87 percent, has been strong (76 percent at this theater would be an overflow audience at the smaller Thalia), Mr. Baumbauer concedes that some of the interest may be simple curiosity. Critical response to the most prominent new productions has been mixed. "Angels in America" attracted considerable attention, and Mr. Baumbauer's idea of entrusting it to Werner Schroeter, who has the most flamboyantly operatic, overtly gay sensibility among German stage directors, seemed a good one.
In practice, Mr. Schroeter offered a curiously muted, ponderous staging, lacking in nearly all respects the spunk and spirit that distinguishes the New York version. He had some interesting notions, above all the use of Zazie de Paris, a transsexual, as the Angel, surrounded by a nimbus of recorded operatic music. But even here, Mr. Schroeter slighted the apocalyptic aspects of Mr. Kushner's vision.
 
Bright Past
 The Deutsches Schauspielhaus was built in 1900, but its brightest moments came in the late 50's and early 60's when the intendant was Gustaf Grundgens. Germany's most famous actor, he made Goethe's Mephistopheles his signature role, flourished during the Nazi era and become the subject of Klaus Mann's novel and Istvan Szabo's film, "Mephisto." Mr. Grundgen's 1957 production of "Faust," seen at the City Center in New York, was so famous that the Schauspielhaus had never dared to present another.
Mr. Baumbauer solved that problem, at least partly, by bringing Christoph Marthaler from Zurich to direct his "Roots of Goethe's Faust Parts 1 and 2." In a production of under three hours, Mr. Marthaler compacted key scenes from both parts of Goethe's tragedy, adding snippets of 19th-century German music, bits of other texts and allusions to Christopher Marlowe and Thomas Mann. The action was set in a Frankensteinian laboratory, playing off ideas of art and science and deconstructing the text among a corps of interchangeable actors, including four as Gretchen.
The result was both thought-provoking and annoying. Mr. Mart haler's works in general seem as much exercises in style as statements of content. That style owes a little to Robert Wilson, more to Samuel Beckett and most to Pina Bausch. The effect is witty in an oppressed sort of way, and terribly Teutonic. The Deutsches Schauspielhaus still needs a new "Faust."
Mr. Haussmann, a 34-year-old East German director, has burst onto the German theater scene in the last couple of years. His "Troilus" took that problematic play and emphasized its comic elements to the point where the tragedy seemed almost gratuitous. As such, it was dismissed in much of the German press. But what Mr. Haussmann did, he did brilliantly, and certainly Mr. Baumbauer's new ensemble, given the full scope of this play and of the theater's vast stage, had a chance to shine. Particularly compelling was the sly, erotically knowing Cressida of Anne Bennent, who left Mr. Peymann's Burgtheater in Vienna, arguably the most prestigious theater in the German-speaking world, to work with Mr. Baumbauer in Hamburg.
 
One-Man 'Magic Flute'
 In one three-day period, there was also a trenchant student matinee of Edward Bond's "Saved' in a smaller ancillary space; a late-night version of Mozart's "Zauberflote" in the big theater in which everything, all the sung and spoken parts as well as bits of the orchestral score, was performed a cappella by one tenor, Christoph Homberger, in a production conceived and staged by Herbert Wernicke, and several readings that directly conflicted with plays in the big theater.
All of this activity is part of Mr. Baumbauer's plan to emphasize the company's image, build its audience and shore up its reputation before new budgetary whittling, already being discussed, can take effect. And although he may be disappointed at the less-than-ecstatic response his seemingly surefire offerings have elicited, he professes himself satisfied that Mr. Marthaler's "Faust" and his more experimental efforts have been appreciated.
"I think that's good," he said. "The idea is to give people something they can't get on TV. I want for the time being to present everything within this theater, and not elsewhere in the city. If we can get a profile in one or two years, then we can go out. What we are trying to do is give the Schauspielhaus visibility again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicki von Tempelhof and Zazie de Paris performing in Werner Schroeter's production of "Angels in America" in Hamburg. (Matthias Horn/Deutsches Schauspielhaus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SWITZERLAND (87%); 

STATE: BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (96%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (87%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHES SCHAUSPIELHAUS (HAMBURG)

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHES SCHAUSPIELHAUS (HAMBURG)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; HAMBURG (GERMANY); GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SWITZERLAND (87%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (96%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (87%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); BUDGETS (86%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN; BAUMBAUER, FRANK

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



471 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS;
Police Trying to Learn if Harding's Funds Were Used for Attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 17

 BODY:
In pursuing evidence of a conspiracy, Federal and state authorities say they are trying to determine whether any of Tonya Harding's money was used in the assault on her American skating rival, Nancy Kerrigan.
Harding, who resumed training for the Olympics around 1 A.M. today, has strongly denied any involvement in the crime. American Olympic officials have said they would drop her from the team if she is charged in the attack. Kerrigan also skated in public for the first time, in Stoneham, Mass., since the incident. 
 Investigators say they have been investigating where Shawn Eric Eckardt, Harding's former bodyguard, got the $6,500 he has told authorities he paid a man to commit the assault. They said they will try to determine through bank records or other means whether the money was paid and, if it was, whether it originated with Harding, who has earned several hundred thousand dollars in recent years.
They also say that Harding's former husband, Jeff Gillooly, who is unemployed, could be implicated if records show that he controlled the money.
Norman W. Frink, a deputy district attorney, declined to elaborate on any aspect of the case, other than to say investigators are actively pursing all possible leads. He also said that the authorities had tentatively arranged a time to interview the skater.
They have not, however, succeeded in arranging an interview with Gillooly, from whom Harding has been divorced since last August even though they now live together and call each other husband and wife.
Harding, Gillooly and Eckardt have declined to discuss the case, and their lawyers did not immediately return telephone calls for comment.
Eckardt, a 300-pound self-described expert in espionage and security matters, was one of three men arrested last week and charged with involvement in a conspiracy to harm Kerrigan, who was bashed in the right knee 11 days ago in Detroit. Another of those arrested, Shane M. Stant, is the man the authorities say committed the attack. The other man, Derrick B. Smith, is suspected of driving Stant away from the Joe Louis Arena after the assault.
Investigators have said that Eckardt claimed to have paid Stant $6,500. But they are not certain where Eckardt, a 26-year-old who lives with his parents in Portland and runs a bodyguard service from their house, might have got that amount of money. As a bodyguard for Harding, his only known client, he was paid about $3,000 for protecting Harding when she returned to Portland from Detroit.
 
$200,000 in Earnings Since 1991
 Investigators say they are focusing on the money Harding has earned since she burst into skating prominence five years ago. While lucrative commercial endorsements have eluded her, she has made around $200,000 since 1991, including about $150,000 from ice skating tours managed by Tom Collins, a Minneapolis-based promoter.
Collins said in an interview today he paid Harding about that amount for her participation in shows in 1991 and 1992 and that he gave her an additional $10,000 as a gift for training expenses last fall, when he said she called and said she needed some money. Collins said that some skaters incur as much as $50,000 a year in expenses.
In the last three years, Harding has also received $12,500 from the United States Olympic Committee through a trust fund and additional sums from private donors, including $20,000 last year from George Steinbrenner, the owner of the Yankees and an Olympic committee vice president. Jerry Lace, executive director of the United States Figure Skating Association, said in an interview that his organization had also given money to Harding although he was not certain of the amount.
Steinbrenner, attending an owners' meeting in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., refused to discuss the Harding case when asked by reporters, saying, "I'm here on baseball."
In general, money has been available to athletes from trust funds upon request for training and other expenses. Athletes are required to submit receipts for any money spent. But recently, the figure skating association eliminated trust funds for skaters who didn't want them, allowing those athletes to receive the funds directly provided they inform the association about the source of the money. Kristin Matta, a spokeswoman for the association, said Harding signed a release, indicating she would no longer use a trust fund.
Harding also received money from a local fan club. The Tonya Harding Fan Club Newsletter, a periodic publication, actively solicits donations for the skater. Elaine Stamm, president of the fan club, said that the club had raised about $10,000 for the skater since last February.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tonya Harding returned to practice in the early hours yesterday in Portland, Ore..; Nancy Kerrigan skating in public yesterday in Stoneham, Mass., for the first time since being attacked. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: B SMITH'S (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; FIGURE SKATING; ASSAULTS; OLYMPIC GAMES (1994); WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); FINANCES; CONSPIRACY, CRIMINAL SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ICE SKATING (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); LAWYERS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (75%); MEN (74%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (60%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; ECKHARDT, SHAWN ERIC; KERRIGAN, NANCY; HARDING, TONYA NANCY KERRIGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



472 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Computer Vision of Global Warming: Hardest on Have-Nots

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT 

 BODY:
USING a combination of computer models, an international team of scientists investigating the effects of global warming on agriculture has summoned up a detailed vision of the future that will cheer farmers and commodity traders in the northern latitudes, but not people in developing countries.
Experts say the three-year study is apparently the first in what is likely to be a torrent of interdisciplinary, computer-assisted projections of the myriad biophysical and socioeconomic consequences of climate change. 
 The study predicts that rising temperatures resulting from greenhouse gas emissions will cause only a "slight to moderate" decline in world grain production, causing prices to rise, but leaving most industrial nations more or less unharmed -- and actually increasing crop production in some.
But people in already impoverished tropical and subtropical countries are likely to face more starvation and malnutrition than ever before, despite the best efforts of farmers to counter the effects of rising temperatures on their harvests, according to the study's principal authors, Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig of Columbia University and the Goddard Institute for Space Studies, and Prof. Martin L. Parry, director of the Environmental Change Unit at Oxford University in England.
 
Efforts to Assess Risks
 The study was published a month before the more than 150 governments that have signed the 1992 United Nations treaty to combat global warming are to gather for talks in Geneva.
Until recently, much of the advanced research on climate change focused on whether significant global warming was likely to occur at all. This debate is far from settled, but many scientists are convinced that without drastic measures to reduce the burning of fossil fuels, average temperatures are likely to rise 3 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit by the year 2100. Efforts are turning more and more to making precise assessments of the likely risks if this turns out to the case.
Earlier computer models of climate change predicted similarly disparate effects on crop yields, with some northerly regions benefiting while developing countries suffered. But until the Rosenzweig-Parry study, other scientists say, no assessment had incorporated so many variables into a series of precise, comprehensive predictions.
"They've done a terrific job in gradually learning about the agricultural system and how it might change, then building models that will simulate those changes," said Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, a senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, an advocacy group. "Any one scenario that they ran might not tell you much, but they've run a lot of them, and the sort of underlying themes which emerge within the broad range of uncertainty tell you something about what the future may actually look like."
The Environmental Protection Agency, which largely financed the project with technical help from the United States Agency for International Development, is also sponsoring studies on the effects of global warming on natural ecosystems, human health, river basins and the rise of sea levels.
The Rosenzweig-Parry findings, published in the current issue of the British journal Nature, involved 60 economists, agronomists and atmospheric scientists from 25 countries who helped prepare "general circulation" models of the atmosphere; global food-trade patterns and crop growth in 18 countries, 12 of them in the developing world.
The study used crop-yield data supplied by agronomists from Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, China, Egypt, France, India, Japan, Mexico, Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, Russia, the United States, Uruguay and Zimbabwe. The crop figures were then examined under three different models of climate change. The researchers then juxtaposed the data with world food-trade projections to obtain a picture of how many people would be put at risk of hunger.
 
A Surprising Finding
 The study found that although the amount of warming was expected to be highest in the northern latitudes, harming some growing areas and expanding others, the effect on crops was likely to be more uniformly severe in the southern latitudes. This is because the basic subsistence crops the study looked at, including wheat, maize, rice and soybeans, would not fare as well under the stress caused by increased heat and higher evaporation rates.
"This is the most surprising part of our study," Dr. Rosenzweig said. "It shows that even with lower amounts of warming, the vulnerability of the low-latitude places, where developing countries tend to be located, is very much present. The high temperatures will push the crops very near the edge."
According to the study, crop yields will be stunted by higher temperatures and damaged by increased difficulty in retaining water. And, because increased heat accelerates the growth cycle, the crops that will be produced will have less time to accumulate carbohydrates and are thus less nutritious.
The study says the problem will be compounded by sharp increases in world cereal prices resulting from the climate-induced declines in harvests.
"These increases in price affect the number of people at risk of hunger," the study said, noting that because of global warming, an additional 60 million to 350 million people, most of them in the developing world, could face critical food shortages by the year 2060.
The study also found that although the presence of heightened levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere would increase crop productivity in the northern latitudes by enhancing photosynthesis rates, its beneficial effects would probably be limited in the southern latitudes by the damaging effects of heat.
Experts differ over whether the study is based on unrealistically rosy or overly negative assumptions, especially about whether farmers can compensate with new planting techniques or capital-intensive measures like irrigation and new fertilizers.
"I think some of their scenarios are fairly optimistic about the ability of farmers to adapt, particularly in terms of the likely availability of capital and technology," said Alden Meyer, director of the climate change program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental research and advocacy group.
But John Reilly of the Economic Research Service, a private study center in Washington, writing in the same issue of Nature, suggests that the study underestimates the determination of farmers in developing countries to overcome obstacles "if it pays them to do so."
He also asserts that the study's "focus on crops that are staples of temperate agriculture may have led to an overestimate of the negative impacts in tropical countries."
Dr. Rosenzweig acknowledged that "further research clearly needs to be done on other crops that are very important in these areas, things like cassava and millet."
"The real strength of our study was that it was interdisciplinary," Dr. Rosenzweig said. "There's a move to make very integrated models now, and have one model do everything. I like our approach, in which we let the state-of-the-art models in each discipline handle each of the three aspects, and then we work together as scientists to see where the linkages are."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Less Food Production If the Earth Warms" shows the estimated percentage change in cereal production by 2060.; "More Hunger in Developing Nations" shows estimated additional number of people at risk of hunger in 2060. (Source: NASA/Goddard Institute for Space Studies)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (55%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (55%); EARTH (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); GREENHOUSE EFFECT; WEATHER; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; MODELS (SIMULATIONS) GLOBAL WARMING (93%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); IMAGE PROCESSING & COMPUTER VISION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); STARVATION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); WEATHER (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); MALNUTRITION (73%); GRAIN FARMING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WRITERS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); RIVERS (50%); 

PERSON: PITT, DAVID E; ROSENZWEIG, CYNTHIA (DR); PARRY, MARTIN L (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



473 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE;
THE EARTHQUAKE REPORT

 BODY:
The Damage . . . A16
 LOCATIONS AND LOSSES -- An earthquake that measured 6.6 on the Richter scale struck at 4:31 A.M. yesterday about 20 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles. It was felt from San Diego, 125 miles to the south, to Las Vegas, Nev., 275 miles to the northeast. Water and natural gas lines were ruptured, sending torrents rushing water through streets and fireballs billowing into the predawn sky. Dozens of homes and other buildings collapsed.
 

The Overview . . . A17
 THE EARTHQUAKE -- The quake that rattled Southern California awake was by far the most destructive in recent years because it struck ina heavily populated area. Buildings and highways collapsed, power and water were cut off, hundreds of people were hurt and more than a score dies. (Continued From Page A1.)
 
The Highways . . . A18
 A NETWORK DISRUPTED -- The extensive damage to highways threatens to deal a crippling blow to the region of the country that is most defined by its reliance on motor vehicles. (Continued From Page A1).
 
ASSESSING THE COLLAPSES -- Since 1989, $1 billion has been invested in a program to renovatge more than 300highway bridges and overpasses, and highway engineers said that as severe as the earthquake damage was, it could have been dramatically worse. Still, e4xperts will investigate why the damage from this quake was as extensive as it was.
 
The Scene . . . A19
 THE MOOD -- The streets were ghostly, the litter and clutter of destruction everywhere. But slowly, in tentative and sometimes unexpected ways, the people of the Los Angeles area began to reinvent ways of carrying on life and commerce. (Continued From Page A1).
 THE COLLAPSED APARTMENT -- In the light of day, it looked like a cardboard box that somebody had stepped on. Earlier, in a few seconds of predawn terror, the upper floors of a three-story apartment complex fell into the lower floor. (Continued From Page A1).
 GROUND ZERO -- In a neighborhood a short distance from the quake's center, people wandered in a daze amid rubble, the wail of sirens and the stink of leaking natural gas.
 
Science and Services . . . A20
 THE GEOLOGY -- Teh fault that caused the quake was previously undetected byt may have raised mountains a foot.
 THE UTILITIES -- Perhaps two million people lost power around Los Angeles, and thousands more lost gas service. Telephones were jammed, but only for a while.
 
The Response . . . A21
 RELIEF AND RESCUE -- Well before any emergency declarations, Federal and state disaster teams were in place.
 ECONOMIC IMPACT -- The quake was the latest ina string of costly disasters to strike a state already reeling.
 ON TELEVISION -- Assessing the performance of the networks: Plenty of news, with a little help from friends.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GROUND ZERO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS EARTHQUAKES (92%); NATURAL GAS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); ENGINEERING (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



474 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: A Warning Exit in Moscow

 BODY:
On its face, Yegor Gaidar's departure from the Russian Government is a blow to Boris Yeltsin and an embarrassment to President Clinton. Only last Friday in Moscow, Mr. Clinton praised President Yeltsin for his commitment to economic reform, though he was apparently then aware that Mr. Gaidar, one of Russia's ablest reformers, was about to quit as First Deputy Prime Minister. Citing profligate decisions taken without Cabinet consultation, Mr. Gaidar gave a blunt farewell: "I cannot be at one and the same time in the Government and in opposition to it."
A dramatic exit, certainly. But not yet a last bow for Mr. Gaidar, who has quit, or threatened to quit, on previous occasions. Resignations are a way of forcing decisions, and one of the biggest facing Mr. Yeltsin is whether to continue on a ruinous inflationary course. The specific moves protested by Mr. Gaidar illustrate the point: the earmarking of $500 million for a lavish new parliamentary building and, far more troubling, a proposed monetary union between Russia and insolvent Belarus. 
 The draft agreement with Belarus, adopted by the Yeltsin Government without discussion, provides that already weak rubles would be exchanged one for one with a still weaker local currency, worsening Russia's own monetary hemorrhage. It is the kind of decision that has made Viktor Gerashchenko, chairman of the Russian central bank, a symbol of incompetence. He has printed money chiefly to keep unproductive factories afloat. So appalling has been his stewardship that Boris Fyodorov, the Finance Minister as well as a Deputy Prime Minister, threatens to resign rather than serve with Mr. Gerashchenko.
To view these disputes as arguments over the pace of reform wholly misses the point. Runaway inflation sabotages any economic system, and the poorest are the biggest losers. Voters cannot eat worthless rubles. Unfairly if understandably, Mr. Gaidar's reformist party was punished in recent elections by frustrated Russians who turned to ultra-nationalists.
Fiscal restraint is a precondition for any functioning economy, with or without reforms -- a point underscored by Mr. Clinton and his economic team in their overtime talks last week. How Russia moves against hyperinflation is first and foremost the job of the Russians themselves.
While not taking sides in Moscow's internal quarrels, Washington needs to keep pressing for an end to fiscal folly. Seen in this context, Mr. Gaidar's exit is a warning that, if unheeded, could presage a calamity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); TRENDS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: GAIDAR, YEGOR; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



475 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
The Won't-Do Guy

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
I have been studying the Washington news this past week while you, I'll bet, have been in deep immersion with ice skaters and the families Bobbitt and Menendez.
Am I being condescending? Absolutely not. The kneecapping of Nancy Kerrigan and the Bobbitt and Menendez bloodlettings speak painfully of our time and place. 
 There is real significance in stuff like this, and you can be sure the Washington news people would not only find it, they'd make your hair stand on end by explaining it, if they weren't so busy saving the nation from its bumbling Presidents.
What, after all, could be more American than blowing the old folks away with shotguns while they're eating ice cream in front of the TV set? That's right: not just apple pie, but also telling the jury you did it in self-defense.
What could be more American than the butcher knife in the bedroom and the club to the knees in the ice rink? Right again: not just apple pie, but also the automatic pistol, reveling in the opportunity to say "penis" out loud, and paying millions of dollars to athletes willing to praise breakfast cereal.
Still, while studying the Washington news may be dusty, musty work for the unlusty, somebody has to keep track of the Union's ever-declining state. Thus I can report as follows:
President Clinton still won't do.
That's the consensus of the press and television newsfolk whose duty is to grade our Presidents. Some do it in newspaper columns, some do it in news stories and some do it in weekend television's noisy grading sessions.
These can be seen on national networks between Friday night and the start of the Sunday football games but, except by masochists, they are pretty much ignored outside Washington. Besides grading the President, the experts of press and television point out what he is doing wrong, how he could do it right, what he ought to be doing but isn't, how he should do it and how he can stop making a terrible mess of everything.
This, it usually turns out, requires him simply to take the advice of the reporter or columnist who has successfully shouted down all his colleagues and hijacked the camera.
Washington columnists with inferior lung power tend to shun these raucous TV grading sessions and issue marks more sedately in print's discreet black-and-white.
Has any President been more thoroughly graded during his first year than Bill Clinton? Surely not. This week, marking the end of his first full year, naturally brought end-of-year report cards.
Studying them, I am saddened but not surprised to learn that, in the judgment of these Washington news people wise in governance, President Clinton simply won't do.
The reason I am not surprised is that when they graded him last week they also said he wouldn't do. What's more, in their year-end report cards issued to fill the news doldrum between Christmas Eve and Twelfth Night, we all remember what they said, don't we? "Won't do."
If you've ever had a child who shouldn't have taken Particle Physics 101 in the first place you know it's no fun having these grades on your President sent home from journalistic equivalents of Professors Oppenheimer, Fermi and Teller.
They began when he'd been less than a month in the White House: "Won't do." Then came the depressing "First Hundred Days" report: "Still won't do."
A successful speech or two and a couple of occasions when Republicans voted his way because his way was the Republican way -- these brought a little relief. "Slight improvement this week." Always followed by the same old report after the news experts' latest assembly: "Just won't do."
Having studied the wisdom of these graders, I know what the President must do to succeed, and list just a few of these things here: Get tougher with North Korea, come clean pronto about Whitewater, either adopt a dynamic new foreign policy or cut out foreign policy altogether, show contempt for labor and civil rights leaders, find out what Republicans want done and do it, do something absolutely brilliant about Bosnia, talk less, and tell his wife to stay out of the office and mind her own business.
Personally, I say he'll have to stop saying "grow the economy." You grow tomatoes, not economies. Presidents who don't know the difference just won't do, and I'd like to say so if you'd just point the camera my way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA WINTER SPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ICE SKATING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WRITERS (86%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); JURY TRIALS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); POLITICS (64%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



476 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Entire Region Must Share in Economic Growth

 BODY:

To the Editor:
We were pleased that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City and Governor-elect Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey met Jan. 6 to begin ending New York-New Jersey economic border warfare. 
 Their pledge to work together and meet regularly is a second step in the right direction that began with the Mayor's initiative to form a regional alliance with the county executives of Nassau, Westchester, Suffolk and Rockland counties last November.
But New York City and New Jersey should expand their neighborly embrace to include Connecticut and other nearby New York counties. The regional challenges of a stronger economy, better transportation and a healthier environment do not end at the Fairfield or Orange County lines.
Most important, it is time to set out an agenda to move from rhetoric to action. Here are some suggestions:
* Promote the region's strongest industry clusters, such as biomedical technology, professional and information services, financial services, so that we can all share in growth.
* Invest in our extensive but fragmented rail systems, linking them into a true regional network.
* Develop a regional capital budget to maximize the impact of all of our infrastructure investments.
* Create links between urban community groups and suburban employers to find inner-city residents jobs.
We need such initiatives to restore the three-state area's economy and quality of life.
 
H. CLAUDE SHOSTAL
President, Regional Plan Association
New York, Jan. 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); SUBURBS (66%); 

PERSON: SHOSTAL, H CLAUDE; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



477 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Woodward & Lothrop Files For Bankruptcy Protection

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Woodward & Lothrop Holdings Inc., the parent company for two venerable retailers in the Washington and Philadelphia areas, said yesterday that it had filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code and had reshuffled top management.
Joining in the filing, which was entered in United States Bankruptcy Court in New York, are John Wanamaker Inc., the Philadelphia-based retailer that is a Woodward & Lothrop subsidiary, and Woodward & Lothrop Inc., the retailer that has catered to Washington customers for more than a century. 
 The company said that Arnold H. Aronson, the former head of Saks Fifth Avenue who made a bid to acquire Woodward & Lothrop Holdings in the late 1980's, had resigned as its chairman and chief executive.
Robert B. Mang, who since 1991 has served as president and chief operating officer, was named to succeed Mr. Aronson.
Rumors that the company would declare bankruptcy have been heard in retailing circles for weeks.
Woodward & Lothrop, with 16 stores in the Washington-Baltimore area, and Wanamaker, with 15 stores in Philadelphia and southern New Jersey, are regarded as strong franchises. Still, the parent company has been hampered by debt obligations incurred in the mid-1980's when the company was purchased by A. Alfred Taubman, the Bloomfield Hills, Mich., real estate developer.
In 1984, Mr. Taubman paid $226 million, much of it borrowed money, for Woodward & Lothrop. Two years later, he paid $183 million for John Wanamaker in another highly leveraged transaction.
"Our highly leveraged balance sheet has generated increasingly burdensome levels of debt and interest expense which, over the past several years, have made it extremely difficult to operate our business competitively," Robert J. Mulligan, Woodward & Lothrop Holdings' vice chairman, said in a statement announcing the bankruptcy filing.
A statement from Mr. Taubman said he "wholeheartedly" supported management's efforts to "see that a strong, competitive Woodward & Lothrop emerges from the reorganization as soon as possible."
Mr. Taubman, who unsuccessfully tried to sell the company in 1988, has been propping it up with infusions of cash over the years.
Analysts said rumors circulated in the fall that Mr. Taubman had told Woodward & Lothrop management that his patience and financial support had run out. He remains the company's largest creditor.
Servicing a huge, high-interest debt was made more difficult by the recession that hit the Middle Atlantic States in the late 1980's. Moreover, analysts said that the company had fallen prey to image problems, as well as increased competition.
 
Strategy Called Confusing

 
 "Their merchandising hasn't been bad," Peter Schaeffer, a partner at Johnson Redbook Service, a retailing and apparel research firm, said. "But over the last few years they tried to move from being a moderately priced chain to being more upscale. Then they tried to move back downscale. Those moves have confused and angered customers and caused them to stay away."
The privately held retailer has liabilities of roughly $600 million and assets of slightly more than $600 million, Mr. Schaeffer said.
Frederick H. Taylor, director of corporate bond research at Salomon Brothers, said the bankruptcy filing was "a combination of too much debt and underperformance."
According to Mr. Taylor's estimates, Woodward & Lothrop had sales of about $850 million and earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation of about $36 million. "They ought to be making roughly twice that amount," he said.
 In its announcement, Woodward & Lothrop said it had received commitments for approximately $300 million of debtor-in-possession financing from the CIT Group.
Mr. Mang said the financing package was "more than adequate" to support continuing operations. He added that the bankruptcy filing would have no effect on "customers or employees" of the stores.
Mr. Schaeffer said he was a bit skeptical that the reorganization could be brought off that cleanly. But he added that the company had an even chance of emerging from bankruptcy without being forced to sell either of its chief assets.
 
An Analyst's Predictions

 
 Walter Loeb, who heads his own retailing consulting firm, said, "I frankly think Woodies has some underperforming assets that have to be closed, and that it will be a leaner company when it emerges" from bankruptcy protection.
If Woodward & Lothrop is forced to sell either of its main businesses, analysts identified Federated Department Stores as a potential buyer for the Woodward & Lothrop chain. They said the May Department Stores Company, which owns the Hecht's department stores in Washington, might be interested in John Wanamaker.
Mr. Mang said speculation about sales of either business was just that. "There are no plans at present to sell this business," he said. "Our total efforts are being directed at further strengthening the company financially and restructuring its balance sheet."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day yesterday with an article about the bankruptcy filing of Woodward & Lothrop Holdings Inc. misidentified the subject in some copies. He was A. Alfred Taubman, the real estate developer who controls Woodward & Lothrop, and not Arnold H. Aronson, who resigned as the company's chairman and chief executive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A. Alfred Taubman (Bill Cunningham)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AND (AMS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WOODWARD & LOTHROP HOLDINGS INC; WOODWARD & LOTHROP INC; WANAMAKER, JOHN, CO WOODWARD & LOTHROP HOLDINGS INC (96%); WOODWARD & LOTHROP INC (85%); JOHN WANAMAKER INC (85%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOODWARD & LOTHROP HOLDINGS INC; WOODWARD & LOTHROP INC; WANAMAKER, JOHN, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (67%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; MANG, ROBERT B; ARONSON, ARNOLD; TAUBMAN, A ALFRED A ALFRED TAUBMAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994



478 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY'S NEW GOVERNOR;
Inaugural Surprise: Whitman Wants Tax Cut Now

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Christine Todd Whitman, New Jersey's 50th governor and its first female chief executive, today called for an immediate and early start on her campaign pledge to cut state income taxes by nearly a third.
Governor Whitman, who was sworn in today before an enthusiastic assemblage at the Trenton War Memorial, proposed that the first installment of tax cuts for individuals and businesses be retroactive to Jan. 1, rather than wait until July 1 and the new fiscal year. The cuts must be approved by a Legislature controlled by her fellow Republicans. 
 "I will not hedge, I will not backtrack," Governor Whitman declared. "I will keep my promises to you, my friends, to the best of my ability, so help me God." [Page B4.]
Although her accelerated tax cut will not change anyone's tax bill, compared with her original campaign promise, her proposal drew gasps and applause.
Governor Whitman, who had been criticized during her campaign for failing to offer specific proposals, used her inaugural address to deliver a brisk catalogue of policy initiatives. Most governors have taken the occasion to paint a broad vision of their administrations, but she turned the address into an early State of the State speech, outlining the problems faced by New Jersey and providing a plan of action, much of it intended to create a more hospitable climate for business.
"We will be competitive," she said. "No more losing our employers to job raids by low-tax states. New Jersey is open for business." Mrs. Whitman mentioned Pennsylvania as one of the neighboring states that competes with New Jersey for jobs. But she pointedly avoided mention of New York City, the source of many transplanted firms for New Jersey, but with whose Mayor and fellow Republican, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mrs. Whitman has pledged an end to economic border wars.
New Jerseyans have lost faith in the promises of their government, the new Governor said. The schools are unsafe, she continued, state government is often incompetent, taxes are too high, and jobs are draining away to low-tax states.
Besides promising to cut income taxes retroactively, Mrs. Whitman pledged to eliminate state income taxes for residents earning less than $7,500, saving them about $150 a year, and proposed to cut the business tax rate by three-eighths of one percent, to 9 percent, saving state businesses about $40 million a year. Both measures would be retroactive to Jan. 1.
Governor Whitman also proposed to inoculate Education Commissioners against political interference by giving the commissioner, who now serves at the will of the Governor, a fixed five-year term.
 
Mandatory Life Sentences
 She also applauded and approved a pilot program to give parents in Jersey City greater say in which public school to send their children to, and she said the program would be expanded if deemed successful.
Like Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York in his State of the State address earlier this month, Governor Whitman asked for mandatory life sentences upon a criminal's third conviction for violent crime.
And with a flourish, Mrs. Whitman called her chief counsel, Peter Verniero, to the podium as she signed her first Executive Order, creating an Economic Master Plan Commission to improve the business climate.
Governor Whitman has often said she would see her program enacted without either cutting services or forcing municipalities to make up for lost state aid by raising local taxes. Today, she repeated that commitment, pledging "the same or better services for less."
Her new plan to enact a 5 percent tax cut retroactive to Jan. 1 will not increase the tax savings she had already proposed for New Jerseyans for 1994 or the cost to the State Treasury of making good on her pledge to cut state income taxes by 30 percent over three years. By extending the tax cut for the full year, she answers a major complaint about starting the tax cuts in July, which was that it is difficult for the Department of Taxation to change tax rates in the middle of the tax year.
The retroactive tax cut at 5 percent has the same effect over the entire year of the 10 percent cut she had initially proposed to take effect July 1. That cut would have applied only during the last six months of 1994.
For a married couple filing jointly with total taxable income of $50,000, the Whitman tax plan would mean a saving of $345 annually.
Nevertheless her plan to make the tax cut retroactive stirred a buzz and her jab at the Clinton Administration, whose midyear tax increase last year applied to the whole calendar year, drew laughter and applause.
"Let's not keep economic growth waiting another minute," Governor Whitman declared. "If President Clinton and his Congress can reach backward into time and raise your taxes retroactively, your Governor and your Legislature can cut them retroactively."
 
Right Date, Wrong Year
 Legislative Republicans responded favorably to the new proposals.
"I knew it would be Jan. 1," Senate President Donald T. DiFrancesco, who presided at the inauguration, quipped after her speech. "I just didn't get the year straight." Mr. DiFrancesco had publicly suggested that a tax cut wait until 1995. But he and other Republicans made it clear they expected her to come up with ways of paying for her tax cuts and mandatory sentencing proposals.
"Sure, we'll pass it; a tax cut's easy to pass," Senator DiFrancesco said later. "The big part here is, she's committed her Cabinet people to come up with cuts. So the pressure's really not on us; the pressure's on them to come up with the money."
Robert E. Littell, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, also said he would embrace a tax cut as long as the offsetting budget reductions make sense.
"The tax cut is doable," he said in an interview, "but in order to find the votes for it in our committee, we have to know where the spending cuts are." Mrs. Whitman has promised to deliver budget details on March 15.
Democrats repeated their long-held skepticism about the feasibility of cutting a budget already afflicted with a built-in deficit by an additional $500 million a year for three years, as the 30 percent cut implies.
Accordingly, the Democrats appeared to draw battle lines along the Governor's promise that the tax cuts would not translate into higher local property taxes for schools and town government.
"We have no interest in a tax cut proposal that smacks of dubious smoke-and-mirrors fiscal tactics," said Joseph V. Doria Jr., the Assembly minority leader. "We have no intentions of being party to a tax cut that gives money with one hand, while taking money away with the other."
Other groups likely to be heard from as Mrs. Whitman's plan unfolds include a host of local government officials and public employee unions whose members enjoy pay scales and work schedules that are generous by state government standards.
Mrs. Whitman became Governor on a radiant winter's day, taking over a state whose economy is beginning to show distinct signs of improvement, yet whose electorate remains broadly beset with economic anxieties ranging from the depressed values of their houses to faltering job prospects of their growing children.
Mrs. Whitman appeared to speak to this restive mood when she promised to shake up the way state government is operated, and she sounded a theme that was often heard from President Ronald Reagan:
"Our principal problems are not the product of great global economic shifts or other vast, unseen forces," she said. "They are the creation of government."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Todd Whitman kissing her husband, John, after becoming Governor of New Jersey. With them were their children, Kate and Taylor, and Chief Justice Robert N. Wilentz, who administered the oath. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) (pg. A1); The cold weather and bad road conditions yesterday forced the cancellation of the traditional Inaugural Parade in Trenton. A New Jersey state trooper helped a guest up the icy steps of the the War Memorial Building, where Gov. Christine Todd Whitman took the oath of office. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; INAUGURATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WOMEN; ELECTION ISSUES TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); INCOME TAX (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); CHILDREN (66%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (66%); SENTENCING (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PETERSON, IVER RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



479 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Henry Balgooyen, Trade Expert, 81; Advised Presidents

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Henry Warren Balgooyen, an economist and Presidential counselor who devoted many years to the fostering of inter-American cooperation and free trade, died on Saturday at his home in Katonah, N.Y. He was 81.
The cause was pneumonia, his family said. 
 Mr. Balgooyen's mastery of international commerce took him to many conferences in the Americas as a delegate or adviser, starting in the 1940's. An expert on Latin American affairs, he counseled Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.
Over the years, Mr. Balgooyen headed or held high office in the Pan American Society, the Americas Foundation, the Ecuadorian-American Association, the Argentine-American Association and the Bolivarian Society.
Other organizations in which he held office included the Institute of International Education, the American Enterprise Institute and the Council for Latin America.
A native of Hadley, Mich., Mr. Balgooyen graduated from the University of Michigan and received an M.B.A. degree there in 1929. He started his business career in the foreign department of Chase National Bank and eventually became president and chief executive of American and Foreign Power Company in New York.
In the late 1960's, the company merged with Ebasco Industries, from which he retired in 1968 as senior vice president.
Mr. Balgooyen is survived by his wife of 63 years, Violet Linden Balgooyen; two sons, Warren P., of Norridgewock, Me., and Bruce W., of Chico, Calif.; a daughter, Marjorie B. Drysdale of Randolph, Vt.; 10 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
Another daughter, Carol B. Wilkinson, died in 1988 after a long illness, and Mr. and Mrs. Balgooyen also raised her four children, Stephanie, Eric, Mark and Joseph.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (88%); ECUADOR (76%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (88%); ECUADOR (76%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (77%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); PNEUMONIA (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); 

PERSON: BALGOOYEN, HENRY WARREN JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



480 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE: Coping;
Aftershocks in Paradise: Hearts Are Trembling Too

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Jan. 18

 BODY:
A few days ago, Diana and Morrie Eisenman were Rollerblading along the beach here in perfect sunshine, smug about living the California dream while their East Coast friends shivered and shoveled.
Today was another beautiful day in paradise in this beach-front city, where the urban thoroughfares meet the shining sea, so Mr. and Mrs. Eisenman again put on shorts, T-shirts and sunglasses and pedaled along the promenade. 
 But on this outing, accompanied by a friend, they noticed the heaps of bricks on the sidewalk, the telltale police tape and the pinch of dread in their hearts more than the rustling palm trees, the flawless sky or the balmy temperatures.
This uneasiness about the place they call home was not a new feeling for the Eisenmans or their friend, Terry Martin -- not after two years rudely punctuated by riots, fires, floods and grim economic news.
 
A New Urgency
 But they experienced it today with a new urgency, as the region rattled with the aftershocks of a deadly earthquake, and Angelenos asked themselves if the dangers of living in Southern California had finally outstripped the dream.
"Do other places have this multiplicity of disasters?" asked Mr. Martin, a real-estate broker.
"Especially lately," interjected Mrs. Eisenman, who manages a boutique too damaged to open today.
"It makes you feel jinxed," said her husband, a film producer who has lived here for 20 years. "It drains your mental resources. After a while you feel numb. I think a lot of people are going to move because they can't take the helpless feeling. It makes you think you should take your chances elsewhere."
Mrs. Eisenman, a transplanted Texan, suggested just that on Monday night, when she was ragged from sleep deprivation and edgy from long hours of watching televised images of destruction and death. Instead, she snapped off the round-the-clock news, popped in a National Lampoon videocassette and waited to see if she would feel different in the morning.
And "maybe because it was a beautiful day," Mrs. Eisenman said, she did. But her husband awoke contemplating an easier life elsewhere. "Some days you just feel it's not worth it here," he said. "But it comes and goes and usually we don't feel that way simultaneously."
 
'An Incredible Setback'
 Mr. Martin, who experienced the bust years in New York City in the mid-1970's and the boom there a decade later, said he was hoping, until the predawn temblor on Monday, that this beleaguered city was about to turn around.
"It felt very much like New York City at its emotional ebb," Mr. Martin said, "and I thought we were poised for a renaissance. After this rubble clears, that still might happen. But this is an incredible setback."
The Northridge earthquake, which killed at least 38 people and which early accounts said caused $7 billion in damage, came atop two years of other deadly, expensive disasters here, both natural and caused by humans.
Fires, floods and storms in Southern California in 1993 led to 26 deaths and $1.3 billion in damages. And the 1992 riots touched off by the acquittal of four police officers in the beating of a black motorist caused more than 50 deaths and $1 billion in property losses.
 
A Sense of Apocalyptic Times
 Add to those disasters the scores of lives lost and the billions of dollars of damage from the earthquake in the San Francisco area and the Oakland Hills firestorm, all within the last five years, and Californians cannot be blamed for feeling they are living in apocalyptic times.
Some of those strolling the pier and the sandy beach here today insisted that there had to be an end to this surfeit of suffering, that surely calm would soon be restored to the nation's most populous state, which is reeling from recession.
"The worst of it has to be over," said Stephen Hutton, who works in the computer industry. "It can't keep on like this."
Mr. Hutton said he had no plans of leaving and managed the stress by alternating between his home here and a weekend refuge in the desert. "It's very exhausting," Mr. Hutton said, "and many times I've wanted to leave. But it's such an exciting place to live."
"You mean terrifying," countered Terry Kelley, a childhood friend from Dallas who had been contemplating a move to California until this week, when he was thrown from his bed in the pitch black, heard the incessant clatter of helicopters and the wail of sirens and felt his knees turn to jelly. "There's a big difference between excitement and terror."
Everyone on the promenade today had a different idea about which of the recent plagues here was the most upsetting. Mr. Hutton picked last fall's wind-driven fires, which he watched scorch the Malibu hills from a promontory at the juncture of Wilshire Boulevard and Ocean Avenue. "It just kept coming and coming and coming," he said. "Closer and closer."
 
Coming Unglued
 Mr. Kelley voted for the earthquake. "You can drive away from a fire," he said. "You can run from a riot. But an earthquake that slams you out of bed at 4 o'clock in the morning. . . . I still can't trust my legs. My heart won't stop beating. I don't believe it's over. With all this shifting of pressure, one day it's going to come unglued. And that will be worse than hell in terms of carnage."
But Richelle Mickle, heading for a game of Frisbee on the beach with her fiance, Griffin Wright, said the riots and her fear of crime were what would chase her from the Los Angeles area, if only she could find a job someplace else.
"We're focused on a family one day," she said, "and bringing up children here, with so many guns, is frightening."
Mr. Terry, for his part, argued that earthquakes, fires and riots all touched the same dark place in his soul. "Financially, intellectually, emotionally, I'm able to cope with most of the things that come into my life," he said. "But fires, riots and earthquakes crack that illusion of control. It doesn't put me in a panic mode, but it does make me acknowledge my interconnectedness to the whole environment."
Mr. Terry was asked if the latest calamity here might prove for him to be the proverbial straw that breaks the camel's back. "I don't know if this is the straw or the straw will come next month," he said. "Because who knows what's going to happen then."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left homeless, a resident found refuge in San Fernando Park with a picture of Santo Nino, a patron saint, among her few possessions. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); Jim Barden of Santa Monica conducted business over a telephone strung outside his barricaded house. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; FIRES AND FIREMEN; FLOODS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EARTHQUAKES (90%); BEACHES (90%); RIOTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (51%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



481 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
HOSPITALS UNIT PROPOSES CUTBACKS
Ordered by Mayor Giuliani to close a budget gap of $160 million, New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation submitted a plan that would impose a hiring freeze, cut contributions to affiliated medical schools and delay a number of health initiatives. B3.
 

BOMB TRIAL FOCUSES ON PHONE RECORDS
An F.B.I. witness went over two thick volumes of analyses of telephone calls placed to and from addresses where the various defendants in the World Trade Center bombing case lived in the months when the prosecution says the bomb attack was being planned. B2.
 
REGION
 
WHITMAN WANTS TAXES CUT NOW
Christine Todd Whitman, New Jersey's 50th Governor and its first female chief executive, called for an immediate and early start on her campaign pledge to cut state income taxes. A1.
Excerpts from Governor Whitman's inauguration speech. B4.
 
GOVERNOR PLOTS HER OWN COURSE
Mrs. Whitman wasted no time in demonstrating that she intends to set her own agenda, whether or not it coincides with that of the Trenton establishment. News Analysis. B5.
 
A WELL-PROTECTED POLITICAL SECRET
In a town where political secrets have never had much of a shelf life, Governor Whitman managed to protect a major one on her tax-cutting plans. Reporter's Notebook. B5.
 
WOMAN ARRESTED IN DEATH OF HER BABY
A 34-year-old Long Island mother was arrested in the death of her ailing 22-month-old son, who the police said she fatally poisoned Dec. 16 at Schneider Children's Hospital of Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park. B3.
 
MAN IS INDICTED IN L.I.R.R. KILLINGS
A grand jury has handed up a 93-count indictment against Colin Ferguson, the Brooklyn man accused of killing 6 people and wounding 19 aboard a Long Island Rail Road commuter train last month, the authorities said. B5.
 
A BUDGET WITH AN EYE ON NOVEMBER
In an ideal election-year budget, a chief executive spreads largess far and wide, and the closer the money gets to the swing voters the better. New York's economy has not recovered sufficiently to afford Governor Cuomo that luxury. So Mr. Cuomo did the next best thing. He proposed a budget that allowed him to declare that the state, under his stewardship, had turned the fiscal corner. News Analysis. B6.
 
BUDGET IS ASSAILED OVER MEDICAID
As cities and towns across the state digested what was in Governor Cuomo's proposed budget, New York City and surrounding counties complained about what was left out, a state takeover of local Medicaid costs that could save them millions of dollars. B6.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman B3
 
Chronicle B7

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Condominium Prices" shows the average condominum prices in Manhattan from '92-Dec. '93. (Source: Yale Robbins, Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); ARRESTS (76%); GRAND JURY (75%); TAX LAW (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); TRAINS (62%); INCOME TAX (53%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



482 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY'S NEW GOVERNOR: Reporter's Notebook;
Little Warning Given of Tax Cut in Whitman Speech

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
In a town where political secrets have never had much of a shelf life, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman managed to protect a major one on her tax-cutting plans.
So there was more than a little stir today, over both the theater and the substance of the statement, when Mrs. Whitman used her inaugural address to ask the Republican-controlled Legislature to enact a 5 percent income tax cut for every family in New Jersey retroactive to Jan. 1. 
 Mrs. Whitman said later that her chief counsel, Peter Verniero, had spoken with senior staff members of the Republican legislative majority on Monday night and advised them of the tax announcement.
Still, the word did not reach many movers and shakers in Trenton until today.
"It wasn't a surprise to me," deadpanned Senator Robert E. Littell, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. "I knew about it 15 minutes ahead of time."
 
Piecing Together a Speech
 Governor Whitman delivered one of the few scripted speeches of her political career today -- a collaboration that involved her own work, supplemented by contributions from various members of her staff and borrowings from some more practiced Republican orators.
There was a bit of Abraham Lincoln:
"We in government must have a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people."
A lump of Reaganism:
"Our principal problems are not the product of great global economic shifts or other vast, unseen forces. They are the creation of government."
And there was the politically de rigueur recognition of someone in the audience who stands as an exemplar of the point that the new Governor was trying the drive home. In Mrs. Whitman's case, it was Claudia Grier, an 8-year-old second grader from Neptune, who she met last week when the class visited her at the State House and delivered a bundle of letters.
Mrs. Whitman interrupted her speech today to introduce the schoolgirl and incorporated parts of the girl's letter in her inaugural message.
"We should all learn to share and be nice to each other," Mrs. Whitman said, quoting the letter. "I know that you have a demanding job ahead of you and I will be there to help you."
 
All in the Family
 The Bible that Mrs. Whitman used to take her oath of office was used nearly 80 years ago in the inauguration of a New York governor.
The American Bible Society Bible was purchased in New York City in 1852 by Seymour Whitman, the great-grandfather of Mrs. Whitman's husband, John R. Whitman.
In 1915, Charles S. Whitman, the grandfather of John Whitman, used the same Bible at his inaugural. Mr. Whitman was Governor of New York from 1915 to 1918.
 
Rubbing Partisan Shoulders
 Politics makes for strange bedfellows, and as it turns out, even stranger seating arrangements.
United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg and State Assembly Speaker Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, likely rivals in what promises to be one of the most expensive Senate races in history, found themselves sitting shoulder-to-shoulder today at the swearing-in of Mrs. Whitman.
Mr. Lautenberg, a two-term Democrat, and Mr. Haytaian, a Republican who as Speaker holds the third-highest elected office in the state, shook hands and appeared to exchange small talk.
Mr. Haytaian has said that he will formally announce on Jan. 25 as a candidate for the Republican nomination to face Mr. Lautenberg, whose seat is among those targeted by the national Republican Party in its bid to take control of the Senate this fall.
Party leaders on both sides have predicted that as much as $15 million could be spent in the New Jersey race, which they say could be one of the hardest-fought campaigns in the nation.
But the political fireworks today were limited to the 19-gun salute, a traditional honor for a governor, which was fired by the New Jersey National Guard at the conclusion of Mrs. Whitman's oath of office. The thundering startled residents in some sections of Trenton and set off dozens of car alarms.
 
Of Fame and Fans
 Waiting outside the Governor's office with former Gov. Thomas H. Kean and soon-to-be-former Gov. Jim Florio to leave for Mrs. Whitman's inauguration, former Gov. Brendan T. Byrne offered an insight into the fleeting fame that comes with political leadership.
Mr. Byrne recalled an episode during his first term as Governor when he was stricken by a violent viral infection that required that he be carried by stretcher from his office to a waiting ambulance.
Mr. Byrne said that as he was being carried from the State House, many of his aides were worried that he might have suffered a heart attack. But from somewhere in the crowd of onlookers who gathered came the cry:
"Hey, who's using your Giants' tickets this weekend?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman with her husband, John, last night as they arrived at her inaugural ball. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INAUGURATIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INCOME TAX (71%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) FRANK LAUTENBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



483 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Chung Il Kwon, Korean General And Premier, 76

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
Chung Il Kwon, the chief of staff of the South Korean Army who became a national hero at the age of 32 while commanding forces at the start of the Korean War in 1950, died on Monday at a hospital in Hawaii. He was 76.
The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 He left the army in 1957 as a four-star general and served for 20 years in high positions in the South Korean Government. He was the Prime Minister in 1964, during a period of sustained economic growth.
 
Led South Koreans at Inchon
 During periods of the fiercest fighting with North Korean and Chinese forces, General Chung served as a tactical commander of his country's forces, winning the respect of American military leaders. As a major general, he led South Korean units during the landing of United Nations forces at Inchon. Shortly after that, the North Koreans were forced out of most of South Korea.
He received his early military training in Japan and served as a captain in the Japanese Imperial Army during World War II. After the war he served in the Chinese Nationalist Army, and then joined the nucleus of what became the South Korean Army.
In 1960 he became Ambassador to the United States and later served as Foreign Minister and Speaker of the South Korean Parliament. During the 1960's Mr. Chung studied international relations at Harvard University and political science at Oxford University.
Mr. Chung was a political ally and confidant of Gen. Park Chung Hee when General Park seized power in South Korea in a coup in 1961. Mr. Chung later became Prime Minister in the Park Government, and he served in the Government in one capacity or another until he was dismissed by President Chun Doo Hwan in 1980.
Mr. Chung is survived by his wife, Park Hye Soo, and four children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chung Il Kwon (Camera Press, 1979)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%); HAWAII, USA (92%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); ARMIES (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); COUPS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); POLITICS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); CANCER (57%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (55%); 

PERSON: CHUNG IL KWON (GEN); LYONS, RICHARD D

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



484 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK STATE BUDGET;
Cuomo Calls For Tax Cuts For Business

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 18

 BODY:
In an election year in which the economy looms large as a campaign issue, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo proposed today what he described as a pro-business budget that would cut an array of business taxes, provide modest increases for education and anti-crime efforts and establish new restrictions on health-care services for the poor.
The budget is Mr. Cuomo's least painful in five years, calling for only 160 layoffs in the state's 151,000-member work force, no major service reductions and small increases for programs that faced severe cuts in recent years, including the arts and libraries. Under the proposal, the $33.4 billion general fund budget for the fiscal year starting on April 1 would grow by 3.8 percent, the first time in six years that it would grow faster than the rate of inflation. 
 The budget, which requires the approval of the Legislature, in many ways continues the Governor's recent tight fiscal policies, and Mr. Cuomo said he hoped that those "prudent" measures would help improve the state's bond rating, which is the second lowest among the 50 states, after Louisiana.
 
On Cusp of Recovery
 The most significant initiatives in the budget proposal are tax cuts, not service improvements. Describing the state economy as on the cusp of vigorous recovery but in need of a boost, Mr. Cuomo called for reducing or phasing out more than a dozen taxes and fees on businesses, worth $210 million in 1994-95 and an increasing amount in subsequent years. The budget also includes an income tax credit for families that earn less than $25,300 a year, which would cost the state $50 million in revenue in the 1994-95 fiscal year.
The tax cuts would be balanced largely by higher-than-expected revenues from personal income and other taxes, he said.
But the tax cuts would also be financed partly by reductions in some programs, including restrictions on health-care services for the poor. Mr. Cuomo, who is seeking his fourth term this year, defended his efforts to improve the business climate even if it involved squeezing some social services.
"The only source of our wealth is going to be private-sector business because we cannot count on Washington to bail us out as they did in the old days," he said at a news conference. "It's not a question of saying I like rich people more than that sick woman there."
But in the Legislature, both Democrats and Republicans can be expected to push for additional spending on local programs, particularly since all are up for re-election.
Though the budget message sounded themes long championed by the Republicans, leaders of the Republican-controlled State Senate accused Mr. Cuomo of promoting "runaway" social spending while not making deep enough tax cuts. And they attacked Mr. Cuomo's revenue projections as too conservative, saying more money should be allocated to school aid, a measure that would hold down local taxes.
The State Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, an Oyster Bay Republican, said, "The Governor's budget proposal is an election-year document that is long on rhetoric but short on ideas and results."
 
Support in From Assembly
 The Democrats who control the State Assembly expressed broad support for Mr. Cuomo's proposal, especially the earned-income tax credit. But they indicated concerns that the budget does not do enough for the working-class and poor.
"As we start to enjoy an economic recovery, we will work to make sure that all New Yorkers share in our economic revitalization," Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, a Queens Democrat, said in a statement.
The budget proposal is based on forecasts for somewhat stronger economic growth, with total state income rising by 4.7 percent. While Mr. Cuomo said higher profits are expected in most sectors of the economy, they are expected to be tempered by continued layoffs at large corporations, particularly the International Business Machines Corporation, and plans to close the Air Force base in Plattsburgh and cut back the base in Rome, N.Y.
 
Closing the Gap
 In developing the budget, Mr. Cuomo also had to close a gap of more than $3 billion between projected revenues and projected spending. To do that, he proposed saving the state $800 million by deferring, as he and the legislators have done several times in the past, scheduled reductions in the personal income tax and not allowing $275 million in hospital taxes to be phased out. He also used a $299 million surplus in the current budget to help close the gap.
There are in fact three different ways to add up the state budget; depending on which one is used as a base, there are three ways to measure how the Governor is proposing to increase state spending. The most commonly used yardstick is the $33.4 billion general fund budget, which is financed largely through state revenues; that is the one that will grow nearly 3.8 percent. The second is the state funds budget, which includes capital spending and programs financed by fees earmarked for specific purposes; that budget would increase by 5.5 percent to $42.6 billion. The third is what is known as the all-funds budget, which includes Federal money and which would increase by 6.1 percent to $62.6 billion.
Though the state is reaping more revenues on most of its taxes this year, Mr. Cuomo proposed some new sources of income. Those include a new lottery game, Keno, that he said would generate $74 million in 1994-95, a $15 fee for new pistol permits and a $10 fee for three-year gun-license renewals. He also called for allowing the state to collect $50 million a year for uncollected bottle deposits.
Mr. Cuomo had proposed the Keno game last year, but it was killed by the Legislature. "There are concerns that raising revenue that way is regressive," said Michael Moran, a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, a Queens Democrat. "People who can least afford it are often the ones who play the game."
Mr. Cuomo proposed several measures intended to improve the state's credit ratings. Those include paying off this year a $120 million Medicaid payment that is due next year, increasing to $311 million a special fund to pay for litigation against the state, and ending a 36-year tradition of borrowing in the spring to pay off last year's bills. The budget also includes fewer "one shots," which are one-time sources of revenue that will not be around next year. Those drop to $78 million, compared with $103 million in the current budget.
"It really does show a commitment to achieving long-term stability," said State Comptroller H. Carl McCall. But Mr. McCall chided Mr. Cuomo for not repaying local governments this year for $222 million in pension fund contributions that the state used to close past budget gaps. Mr. Cuomo called for repaying the money over several years.
The budget calls for curbing Medicaid costs by $185 million to keep growth of Medicaid spending to 8 percent. It would do that by reducing payments to hospitals by about $45 million and cutting payments to nursing homes by $50 million, primarily by allowing them to keep only 75 percent of their profits. It would also cut $54 million in client services by eliminating coverage for non-emergency transportation costs and restricting inpatient psychiatric services.
Mr. Cuomo called for increasing aid to local primary and secondary schools by 2 percent to $198 million, bringing total state school aid to $9.3 billion. New York City would receive $88 million of that total. His budget would also increase aid to state universities by $77 million and to the City University of New York by $37 million. He said no tuition increases would be needed in either system.
 
'Excelsior Schools'
 Mr. Cuomo proposed using $15.5 million for the planning and preliminary construction of what he calls "excelsior schools": residential high schools that would accept exceptional science and mathematics students. The schools, to be situated on state university campuses, would be modeled after New York City's Stuyvesant High School and Bronx High School of Science, Mr. Cuomo said.
In a year when Mr. Cuomo and the Senate have proposed tougher penalties for violent offenders, the Governor did not call for any new prison construction. But he did propose spending $17 million to convert the closed Gowanda Psychiatric Center into a 750-bed prison.


GRAPHIC: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo proposed these major cuts in taxes and fees.
 
BUSINESS TAXES: Would reduce the corporate surcharge on corporations, banks, insurance companies and utilities from 15 percent to 12.5 percent halfway through the 1994 tax year and to 10 percent midway through the 1996 tax year. Cost in the 1994-95 fiscal year: $70 million.
 
EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT: Would create a credit on the state personal income tax for working New Yorkers with incomes below $25,300. The credit would be equal to 5 percent of the Federal earned income tax credit in the 1994 tax year and would rise to 10 percent in the 1995 tax year. 1994-95 cost: $0.
 
REAL PROPERTY GAINS TAX: Would exempt construction projects or substantial renovations that are started before the end of 1995. 1994-95 cost: $0.
 
Would make various changes to reduce the amount of gain subject to the tax. 1994-95 cost: $28 million.
 
HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX: Would reduce the 5 percent tax on hotel rooms that rent for $100 or more to 2.5 percent on Dec. 1, 1994, and would eliminate it on Dec. 1, 1995. 1994-95 cost: $8 million.
 
PETROLEUM TAXES: Would eliminate the tax of 10 cents per quart on lubricating oil on Sept. 1, 1994. 1994-95 cost: $8 million.
 
ESTATE TAX: Would allow a special credit for estates when a closely held business represents more than 35 percent of an estate. 1994-95 cost: $2 million.
 
SALES TAX: Would create a process that would permit businesses to retain 1.5 percent of the state sales tax they collect from consumers on goods and services, up to $400 a year. 1994-95 cost: $12 million.
 
MISCELLANEOUS FEES: Would eliminate various fees, including those charged for companies thay pay wages by check, for inspections of coin-operated laundries, for Environmental Conservation applications, for vapor recovery systems at gas stations, and for incorporation filings. 1994-95 cost: $4 million.
 
Would impose a $15 fee for a new pistol permit and a $10 fee for each three-year renewal. 1994-95 revenue: $4.8 million.
 
Would increase fees for professional licenses and registration by about 31 percent: 1994-95 revenue: $10.4 million.
 
"THE BUDGET: Balancing the Books"
Charts: "THE BUDGET: Putting Money Back in Some Pockets"
 Highlights of the budget plan for the 1994 fiscal year released yesterday by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
 
TAXES: Calls for reducing state taxes and fees by $210 million in 1994-95, including reducing the surcharge on state business taxes, phasing out the state hotel tax, eliminating a tax of 10 cents per quart of motor oil and providing an income-tax credit for families making less than $25,300 a year.
 
EDUCATION: Would increase state aid to local schools by $198 million, to $9.3 billion. Calls for no tuition increases for the state university system or the City University of New York.
 
HEALTH:j Woudl increase spending for AIDS programs by $8.7 million, to $83 million. Woudl curb the growth in Medicaid spending by reducing coverage for inpatient psychiatric services, eliminating nonemergency transportation programs and restricting certain payments to nursing homes and hospitals; total Medicaid spending would be $5.7 billion, $185 million less than it would be without the change.
 
DEBT REFORM: For the first time since 1958, would eliminate borrowing in the first quarter of the fiscal year to pay for the previous year's costs, a policy that has contributed to the state's low bond rating.
 
(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR) BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INFLATION (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); CRIME PREVENTION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); GOVERNORS (58%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



485 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Unable to Maintain Strong New York Opening

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined across the board yesterday in largely technical trading on world currency markets.
Gold prices were mostly higher. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery settled at $393.60 an ounce, up $1.40 from Monday. The Republic National Bank said spot gold gained $1.30 an ounce, to a late bid price of $392.80. 
 The dollar opened domestic trading on a relatively strong note as trading resumed after Monday's holiday honoring the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Many traders were expecting the dollar to move even higher.
 
 
'Ran Out of Steam'
 But the upward move "just kind of ran out of steam," said Frank Pusateri, a vice president with the Bank of Boston. He said there was a dearth of news for traders to focus on, and trading remained largely technical.
Dealers were divided over whether Germany's Bundesbank would lower interest rates at its regular policy-making meeting scheduled for tomorrow.
Tom Yi, a vice president at ABM-Amro Bank N.V. in Chicago, said he was "fairly confident" the Bundesbank would keep rates at their current levels. That would help strengthen the mark, since higher interest rates in Germany tend to enhance the yield of mark-denominated securities.
 
 
Dollar Slips Against Mark
 In late New York trading, the dollar slipped to 1.7465 marks, from 1.7525 marks on Monday. It also fell to 110.79 Japanese yen, from 111.05 yen.
Meanwhile, the British pound rose to $1.4960 in New York, from $1.4935.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.4605 Swiss francs, down from 1.4770; 5.9325 French francs, down from 5.9540; 1,699 Italian lire, down from 1,706, and $1.3138 (Canadian), down from $1.3178 (Canadian).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



486 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Bentsen Seeks Freer Asian Markets

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen today laid out the Clinton Administration's strategy for gaining access to foreign markets for American financial service companies, which say they are being shut out of some of the world's biggest emerging economies.
Asian stock markets, outside of Japan, have grown in value since 1988 from $180 billion, to $1 trillion, but many countries in this region still put severe constraints on American investment banks, brokerage firms, commercial banks and insurance companies that want to sell their services in these markets. 
 Asian and other developing governments say they are afraid of being dominated by American financial institutions, or having too many banks competing for limited capital, and have restricted their ability to operate or expand with branch offices.
 
Bringing Down Barriers
 One of the reasons for Mr. Bentsen's trip to Indonesia, Thailand and China, which he visits on Wednesday, is to brief governments in the region about how the United States intends to bring down the barriers to its financial services. The recently concluded General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade negotiations in Geneva failed to reach a consensus on this point, after endless wrangling between the United States and the big emerging economies of Asia and Latin America.
In a speech to the Thai Bankers Association, which Treasury officials hope will be heard around the region, Mr. Bentsen presented the American approach. Basically, he said, Washington will insist that from now until six months after the GATT agreement takes effect -- July 1995 -- countries that limit access to American financial services will have to enter into good-faith negotiations with the United States for a phased end to those barriers.
If they do not, the United States will likely retaliate by limiting the access of foreign financial service companies to the American market.
Mr. Bentsen stressed to his Asian audience the increasingly important role of financial services in the American economy. "Two-thirds of our output is in services," Mr. Bentsen told the Thai bankers. "Service exports are a major counterbalance to our imports of manufactured products. In 1992, we had a services surplus of $61 billion and a merchandise trade deficit of $96 billion."
Those who followed the GATT talks, Mr. Bentsen added, "know what a high priority the United States placed on the area of financial services." He said: "We were left with an unfinished agenda. And frankly, I'm disappointed we did not see more countries willing to liberalize."
Before his speech, Mr. Bentsen met with some of the leading American investment bankers in Asia, representing Morgan Stanley, Goldman, Sachs & Company, Citibank and J. P. Morgan, to hear their concerns about being restricted in lucrative markets like South Korea and Taiwan -- both of which are important conduits for capital into China.
John S. Wadsworth Jr., managing director of Morgan Stanley's Asian operations, who organized today's meeting with the Treasury Secretary, said Shanghai's newly organized stock market was expected to have a value of $2 trillion by the end of the century. That is not a marketplace that American investment bankers can tolerate being restricted from, but for now none are allowed to have seats.
Mr. Bentsen said there was still time to negotiate financial service agreements between the United States and its major trading partners before the GATT agreement goes into effect.
Three principles, he said, will guide the United States in these negotiations.
First, he said, "we will look for agreements that offer reasonable market access" and the same treatment for American firms as those of the host nation.
Second, Mr. Bentsen said, the United States will not take a heavy-handed approach to these negotiations. In particular, he said, it will not take any step during discussions that harms the existing operations of foreign firms already in the American markets and "we won't unreasonably refuse access to nations that aren't already in the U.S. market," he said.
Third, he said, Washington will seek an agreement that treats all nations alike. It will not tolerate a situation in which other countries retain the right to discriminate against American firms while their firms are permitted to expand into the American market.
In an attempt to reassure the Asians that the United States will not demand equal access to their own financial service institutions overnight, Mr. Bentsen said: "We understand that many nations consider their financial system to be an integral part of their development strategy, and that it must remain largely in domestic hands. We understand that there can be legitimate concerns about overbanking in small economies. We accept that greater access by foreign firms should not unduly disrupt domestic markets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen visiting the Thai stock exchange in Bangkok yesterday during one of the stops on his Asian tour. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); THAILAND (93%); CHINA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL SERVICES OF HAWAII INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA; CHINA; THAILAND; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); THAILAND (93%); CHINA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY ; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); BONDS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); 

PERSON: BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



487 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Fed Official Will Resign

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Wayne D. Angell has submitted his resignation as a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, effective on Feb. 9, a spokesman for the Fed said today.
Mr. Angell's term expires on Jan. 31, but unless he resigned he would remain in office until the installation of his successor, not yet nominated by President Clinton. 
 Mr. Angell, one of the central bank's staunchest anti-inflation voices, had notified the Fed that he would not participate in the meeting on Feb. 3 and 4 of the Federal Open Market Committee, the main arm for setting monetary policy.
The departure of Mr. Angell, a professor and banker from Kansas, gives President Clinton his first chance to put his stamp on the institution. Senior Administration officials have recommended that George L. Perry of the Brookings Institution be named to the board, but there has not been a nomination announcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); RESIGNATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); BOARD CHANGES (88%); 

PERSON: ANGELL, WAYNE D BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



488 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Reduced Real Estate Losses Bolster Big New York Banks

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
Three of the largest New York banks said yesterday that losses from bad loans fell sharply in the last three months of 1993 as they renegotiated troubled real estate loans and sold properties they had repossessed.
The reduced losses, along with continued strong trading results, led Citicorp and the Chemical Banking and Chase Manhattan corporations to report sharply increased profits for the fourth quarter. All three said profits for 1993 were at record levels. 
 As a result, the three banks, which were in dire straits just two years ago, are now well on the way to restoring their profitability and financial strength.
"We have been lucky," Thomas E. Jones, the principal financial officer of Citicorp, said at a meeting with analysts yesterday. "I don't think anyone would have predicted 12 months ago the degree of liquidity in the real estate market that we have seen."
Also yesterday, two big regional banks that never got in much trouble, Nationsbank and Banc One, reported stronger earnings.
Citicorp and Chase cut their bad loans by about $1 billion each in the fourth quarter. Chemical reduced its bad loans by $607 million.
The banks said stable real estate prices enabled them to sell more quickly properties they had repossessed. And low interest rates allowed owners of troubled projects to borrow money to pay off their existing bank loans.
The decline at Chase was most impressive because of a particular emphasis on selling troubled real estate assets and loans to developed countries. The bank has $1.96 billion in bad loans, down by 34 percent for the quarter and down by 62 percent for the year.
Chase sold about $1 billion of its loans that it had made to developing countries. It also moved $1.4 billion, most of the remaining exposure, to its trading account to be sold as market conditions permit, virtually eliminating problem third-world debt from its balance sheet.
Citicorp and Chemical were not so aggressive, but both recorded gains of more than $100 million on the sale of bonds issued as part of restructurings of loans to less developed countries.
 
Citicorp
 Citicorp, as expected, earned $575 million for the quarter, up from $280 million a year earlier. For the year, the nation's largest bank earned $2.2 billion in 1993, up from $722 million in 1992.
Problem real estate loans and repossessed properties fell by $634 million in the quarter, to $4.1 billion.
Citicorp, which has had the lowest capital ratios of any big bank, increased its Tier 1 capital, the main measure of financial strength, to 6.5 percent of assets, up from 4.9 percent a year earlier.
The bank posted a return on equity of 19.9 percent for the quarter and 17.7 percent for the year. A return on equity of 18 percent is considered highly profitable for a bank.
 
Chemical Banking
 Chemical's fourth-quarter profit was $347 million, up 14 percent from a year earlier. The quarterly earning of $1.23 a share was higher than analysts' expectations of $1.15 a share.
Bad loans and repossessed real estate fell by 15 percent, to $3.5 billion in the quarter.
The bank's Tier 1 capital was 8 percent, up from 7.3 percent a year earlier.
Chemical's profitability, as measured by the return on equity, was 13.4 percent for the quarter, a below-average result because of higher taxes. For the year, the return was 16.7 percent.
 
Chase Manhattan
 Profits at Chase were $313 million for the fourth quarter, up 85 percent from $169 million a year earlier.
The bank reported earnings of $1.53 a share, higher than analysts' expectations of $1.06 a share. For the year, Chase reported profits of $966 million, up 51 percent from the previous year.
The bank posted a return on equity of 17.9 percent for the quarter and 14.6 percent for the year.
The bank said it had reduced its portfolio of real estate held for sale by $500 million in the quarter. Chase has $475 million in problem real estate loans, compared with $2.01 billion a year ago.
Its Tier 1 capital increased to 8.4 percent, from 6.8 percent a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Chase Manhattan Corp. (N)"

Qtr. to Dec 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Net inc.	313,000,000	169,000,000	+85.2	Per shr.	1.53	.87	 	Sh. out.	184,800,000	155,300,000	 	Yr net	b966,000,000	639,000,000	+51.2	Per shr.	4.79	3.46	 	Sh. out.	172,300,000	148,700,000	 	
 
b-After a gain of $500 million, or $2.90 a share, from the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle on the adoption of S.F.A.S. 109.
Chase Manhattan said that in the fourth quarter of 1993 it had charges of $45 million for business-related investments, which included leasehold write-offs and other costs associated with updating and expanding dealer trading activities, particularly in Europe, and costs associated with data center consolidations and enhanced information systems.
The latest quarter also included a pretax gain of $108 million, which included $215 million of gains from assets held for accelerated disposition, less $107 million of expenses and write-downs related to repossessed real estate.
The bank said that in 1993 it also had a provision of $566 million for loans held for accelerated disposition.

Yesterday's closing price:
$35.75
Up 25
 
"Chemical Banking Corp. (N)

Qtr. to Dec 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Net inc.	347,000,000	c304,000,000	+14.1	Per shr.	1.23	1.09	 	Sh. out.	252,500,000	246,200,000	 	Yr net	b1,604,000,000	c1,086,000,000	+47.7	Per shr.	5.77	3.90	 	Sh. out.	251,200,000	240,400,000	 	
 
b-Included tax benefits of $331 million, and after an accounting gain of $35 million, or 14 cents a share, from the adoption of S.F.A.S. 106 and 109.
c-Included tax benefits of $65 million, or 27 cents a share, in the quarter and $278 million for the year.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$40.50
Down $1
 
"Citicorp (N)"

Qtr. to Dec 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Net inc.	b575,000,000	280,000,000	+105	Per shr.	1.16	.53	 	Yr net	b2,219,000,000	722,000,000	+207	Per shr.	4.50	1.35	 	
 
b-Included restructuring charges of $425 million, or 50 cents a share, for cost-management programs to improve productivity, principally in United States markets, and business write-downs of $179 million, or 21 cents a share, mostly related to its Quotron unit, in the quarter and year.
The latest periods also included gains of $107 million, or 14 cents a share, from the sale of Brazilian bonds, and $200 million, or 39 cents a share, of deferred tax benefits. The latest year was also after a gain of $300 million, or 68 cents a share, from the adoption of S.F.A.S. 109, a change in accounting for income taxes.

Yesterday's closing price:
$41.25
Up 12.5
 
(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CITICORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITICORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS REAL ESTATE (93%); REPOSSESSION (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



489 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY'S NEW GOVERNOR: On Her Own Course;
Whitman's Inaugural Speech Outlines Plans With a Sense of Independence

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Christine Todd Whitman took the oath of office today and wasted no time in demonstrating that she intends to set her own agenda, whether or not it coincides with that of the Trenton establishment.
In an inaugural speech that reiterated the themes of her campaign and tried to dispel doubts about her pledge to cut taxes, Mrs. Whitman said she not only intended to fulfill her promise, but would also to make the tax-cut plan retroactive to Jan. 1, instead of waiting until July. 
 Mrs. Whitman made her call for immediate cuts in the $15.7 billion budget just as the Legislature was beginning to struggle with a budget that has a projected shortfall of $1.2 billion and a week after the Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, suggested that the tax cut be delayed until next January.
In effect Mrs. Whitman issued a call to action to a Republican Legislature accustomed to setting its own agenda in its two years of jousting with a Democratic governor.
"What it really does is outflank DiFrancesco and the moderate Republicans who thought that cut should be delayed," said David Rebovich, a professor of political science at Rider College in Lawrenceville.
"It clearly establishes the fact that Whitman sees herself as the leader of the State of New Jersey and the Republican Party," Professor Rebovich said. "And it attempts to quickly get Jersey residents in the mindset of her administration, which is to cut taxes and cut spending.
Voters have virtually always shown that they liked Mrs. Whitman. They liked the way that she listened to them. They liked that she was not Jim Florio. They liked her proposal to cut the income tax by 30 percent over three years.
But next to the granite-faced Mr. Florio, Mrs. Whitman often appeared defensive, ill-prepared and lightweight in her campaign, which had frequent blunders and missteps. She narrowly beat an unpopular incumbent and left many voters wondering whether the blueblooded woman with a royal Republican background but little governing experience could manage a state as difficult as New Jersey. And the key to her victory -- the tax-cut proposal -- only reinforced the skepticism of those who viewed her as lacking in experience.
But in an unusually eventful transition and again in her inaugural address, Mrs. Whitman has demonstrated that she is steady under pressure, particularly during the Ed Rollins fiasco. And in her rejection of a deal worked out by Mr. Florio and the New Jersey Sports and Exhibition Authority that would have moved the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team to Camden, Mrs. Whitman has signaled that she will countenance nothing that might interfere with her goal to slash spending while cutting taxes.
In saying tax cuts would stimulate the sagging economy and that the quicker and larger the cuts the better, Mrs. Whitman has echoed Reaganism. At one point during her speech she said the principal problems of New Jersey stemmed not from the economy, but from government. She attacked excessive regulation and scoffed at the notion that the state needed two agencies to regulate its cemeteries.
"Many have lost faith in the ability of government to deliver services efficiently, to lend a helping hand when it is needed and to get out of the way when it is not," Mrs. Whitman said.
In opposing the politically popular 76ers deal, Mrs. Whitman seemed to establish a litmus test to judge the many proposals that will come before her. Will they require more taxes?
If the answer is yes or even possibly, Mrs. Whitman has indicated, she will not back down from powerful interests like the sports authority.
Despite her inaugural speech and its promises for quick action on taxes, Mrs. Whitman is not likely to break speed records in her first few weeks in office. In his first six months as Governor Mr. Florio pushed through the Legislature a $2.8 billion tax increase, a ban on semiautomatic weapons and a new school financing formula, and he paid the political price three years later. But Mrs. Whitman has shown herself to be more deliberative.
 
Next Ruling on Education
 In her campaign she set up commissions to study issues like economics and crime and waited for their reports before staking out positions. She sharply criticized Mr. Florio for pushing through his revamped education financing before the State Supreme Court had ruled on the issue, and said she would not venture into that thicket until the court rules again in the spring.
In the transition Mrs. Whitman appointed 14 teams to conduct fact-finding on every state department, board and authority and held a series of town meetings and call-in radio and television programs to hear taxpayers' suggestions on trimming the state budget.
 
Surprised by Fluency
 In contrast to perceptions of her as a novice on many policy issues, Mrs. Whitman was able to use her appearances during the transition to display her knowledge about a wide range of subjects. "She has shown a fluency on the issues that surprised me," Professor Rebovich said. "If this came out during the campaign she would have won by 15 points."
Mrs. Whitman's supporters say New Jerseyans can expect to see more of the creative problem-solving Mrs. Whitman now that she is in office. "So much of the campaign was waged on a lot of silly issues against her that the fact that she's a thoughtful person who has a lot of ideas never really came out," said Sal Russo, a political consultant in Washington who worked on Mrs. Whitman's primary campaign. "She can make the tough decisions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman being applauded at her inauguration ceremony yesterday in Trenton. Seated with her was her husband, John. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INAUGURATIONS; TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); BASKETBALL (63%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); DAVID DAVIS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



490 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK STATE BUDGET: An Eye on November;
Budgets Have a Variety of Audiences: Voters of All Stripes and Bankers Too

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 18

 BODY:
In an ideal election-year budget, a chief executive spreads largess far and wide, and the closer the money gets to the swing voters the better.
New York's economy has not recovered sufficiently to afford Gov. Mario M. Cuomo that luxury. So today Mr. Cuomo did the next best thing. He proposed a budget that allowed him to declare that the state, under his stewardship, had turned the fiscal corner after four nightmarish years. 
 He also found enough cash to make at least symbolic commitments to the vital elements in his re-election platform: a warmer climate for business, a welfare system that emphasizes work, and a tougher approach to crime. But he deferred much of the cost of politically popular proposals, like cutting business taxes, until after the November election, when the economy presumably will be stronger.
 
What Isn't There
 What may be most significant about Mr. Cuomo's 1994-95 budget is what it does not include: the tax increases, fiscal gimmicks, layoffs, college tuition increases, and deep cuts in social services and aid to education that he relied on to close huge budget gaps in the last four years.
For the first time in six years, Mr. Cuomo recommended increasing spending at a rate higher than the rate of inflation -- 3.8 percent, compared with an estimated inflation rate of 3 percent. While Mr. Cuomo proposed real cuts in Medicaid programs -- $185 million evenly distributed among hospitals, nursing homes and patients -- the reductions pale when compared with the billion-dollar cuts he has proposed in previous years.
Yet, the budget also reflects Mr. Cuomo's dual feelings that the state's revenues are not yet strong enough to splurge, and that moderation is needed to impress Wall Street bond raters.
The business tax cuts he recommended are modest, and many would have little fiscal impact on the 1994-95 budget. Of the $700 million in revenue that the state eventually would lose from the tax cuts, only $200 million would be lost in the coming year.
 
Small Increases
 Mr. Cuomo would increase spending for economic development programs that retrain workers and provide incentives for companies to locate and expand in New York. But the increases are in the tens of millions, not the hundreds.
His proposal to reorient the welfare system would cost the state little, and his new crime-fighting initiatives would absorb only a few million in a $33.4 billion general fund budget.
For example, the Governor has boasted in recent weeks about Operation Firebreak, which he said would deploy 100 state troopers to combat violent crime in upstate communities. But he disclosed today that only 50 of the officers would be newly hired. The others would be reassigned from New York City.
Mr. Cuomo would increase aid to education by $198 million. That is a vast difference from the cuts in school aid he has proposed in the past. But it still is only a 2 percent increase over the current year.
In one clear sign that campaigning has begun, Mr. Cuomo said he would insure that no school district suffers a cut in state aid. That is a change from budget proposals of recent years that have called for deep cuts in aid to suburban schools to pay for increases in urban and rural districts. The suburban districts are home to moderate and conservative voters that Mr. Cuomo must woo if he is to win a fourth four-year term.
 
The Battle Lines
 The Republicans who will oppose Mr. Cuomo this year in both the Legislature and the campaign are not likely to disagree with his direction. But they already have drawn battle lines over the depth of his commitment. The tax cuts, they argue, are too small and too slow to have any effect. The increase in school aid, they say, should be larger.
"The Governor's new budget proposal, much like the newfound fiscal conservatism expressed in his State of the State message earlier this month, offers great promise," the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, said. "But as usual, he fails to deliver."
Senator George E. Pataki, a Republican from Peekskill who plans to run for governor, said Mr. Cuomo's tax cuts are too small to make a difference, particularly given that the Governor and Legislature have rescinded larger scheduled tax cuts in each of the last four years.
"At best it's a token effort and any person who's looking to make an investment in this state knows that it's token," he said.
Mr. Marino and Mr. Pataki called for deeper cuts in social services, without specifying what they would be. Perhaps more significantly, Mr. Marino questioned whether the Governor's revenue estimates were too conservative. That suggests that the Senate may simply declare that more money is available and then seek to spend it on tax cuts and education. After all, state legislators face re-election this year too.
If Mr. Cuomo's projections are too conservative, it may be because he does not view the voters as the only audience for his budget. He is also seeking to please the decision makers at Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's, the Wall Street bond rating agencies that dropped the state's credit rating so low that it is the second lowest among states. Few events would make for better election-year symbolism for Mr. Cuomo than a mid-year increase in the bond rating.
"This budget is a great budget to go to the raters with," Mr. Cuomo said today, citing the budget's conservative revenue estimates, its dedication of $82 million from this year's surplus to a reserve fund, and its relatively small number of non-recurring revenue measures.
At least one bond rating executive, Richard J. Marino, the director of Standard & Poor's, said he was encouraged by just those factors. "It potentially could have a positive impact on the ratings," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Before presenting his budget proposal in Albany yestersay, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo pointed to a copy while speaking to Senator Olga A. Mendez. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INAUGURATIONS; GOVERNORS (US); TAXATION; INCOME TAX; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BONDS (78%); INFLATION (77%); MEDICAID (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); POLITICS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); VIOLENT CRIME (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); NURSING HOMES (69%); INCOME TAX (68%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (60%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



491 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2259 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY'S NEW GOVERNOR;
Excerpts From Whitman's Address on Leadership, Taxes and Schools

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's inauguration speech, as transcribed by The New York Times.
Today's inauguration marks not a victory of partisanship, but a test of our democracy, of our ability to govern ourselves. As a people we face a crisis of confidence. Many have lost faith in the ability of government to deliver services efficiently, to lend a helping hand when needed and to get out of the way when it is not. 
 We worry about the ability of our economy to generate jobs and restore prosperity. We question the ability of our schools to deliver the quality education our children deserve at a price their parents can afford. We question the ability of our criminal-justice system to prevent crime and to deliver justice and safety.
Americans have lost faith in institutions that are the foundations of our democracy. They question those they have elected to serve them. Wherever I go, whether I'm at a shopping mall, attending a Devils or a Nets game, taking questions on a call-in show I hear the same implicit question. After the oaths, after the speeches and the parties and festivities, will you remember your promises and will you keep them?
As the first statement of my governorship to every voter in New Jersey, let me answer that question. I have just taken the oath of this office you have entrusted to me. To me this oath means one thing. I will not hedge. I will not backtrack. I will keep my promises to you, my friends, to the best of my ability, so help me God.
But I can't do it alone. I need your help, your wisdom and your support. If government is to be for the people, it must be of and by the people. For democracy to work, as Abraham Lincoln said in his first inaugural speech, we in government must have a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people. Government must trust and listen to the people, or it is not a democracy. That is why I've spent the last four years listening to you. And it is why I will keep listening for as long as I am your Governor. 
I believe in the people of this state. I believe in open government. I believe that the best decisions are based on consensus and like you, I believe deeply in the fundamental need for change. To those who question whether I'm serious about bucking the special interests who hold so much quiet power in this city, let me be clear. I did not run for Governor to conduct business as usual. It is going to be different around here.
The only way government can win back your trust is to earn it.Our principal problems are not the product of great economic shifts or other vast unforeseen forces. They are the creation of government, of government that puts special interests ahead of the people's interests, of government that refuses to change. You know it, I know it, and this time together we're going to fix it.
 
Leader on National Scene
 New Jersey should lead the nation. In a world driven by ideas and technology, we boast some of the world's leading telecommunications, pharmaceutical, chemical and other high-tech firms. We have first-class universities, great ports and a prime location between America's financial and political seats of power. We have great natural resources, from the Highlands to the Shore.
New Jersey should be the engine of economic growth that leads this nation into the 21st century. It should be a powerful engine of prosperity that gives our children the same opportunity that our parents worked so hard to give us, the chance for a better life.
Together we will unshackle that economic engine from the restraining chains of high taxes. Four months ago I said I would put 1.4 billion of your tax dollars back in your pocket by cutting taxes over the next three years, with the first cut coming in July. The skeptics groaned, but here we are.
 
Retroactive Tax Cut
 And, I say, why wait until the next fiscal year starts in July? Between now and then families have car payments and credit-card bills that will come due. Senior citizens on fixed incomes will be struggling to make ends meet. And businesses have payrolls to make. Their plans to create new jobs are sitting on shelves waiting for a stronger economy.
Let's not keep economic growth waiting another minute. If President Clinton and his Congress can reach backward into time and raise your taxes retroactively, your Governor and your Legislature can cut them retroactively.
That is why I will be asking my partners in the Legislature, Senate President Donald DiFrancesco and Assembly Speaker Chuck Haytaian, to enact a 5 percent income tax cut for every family in New Jersey effective Jan. 1, 1994, 18 days ago.
Secondly, I am asking the Legislature to eliminate all taxes on those earning less than $7,500, again retroactively to Jan. 1. Those who are struggling the hardest need a tax cut the most. Third, I'm asking the Legislature to cut the corporate business tax to 9 percent, again effective Jan. 1 of this year.
We will be competitive. No more losing our employers to job raids by low-tax states. New Jersey is open for business.
Crafting a budget that covers not only the cost of these tax cuts, but also makes up more than $1 billion in previous one-shot revenues will not be easy. We must do so without cutting the state's services on which so many of us depend. We must do so without driving up the property tax. The shell game of raising one tax to cut another is over.
My budget task force and the 350 citizens who served on my transition teams have been poring over every department's budget. My Cabinet officials take office with a mandate to find ways to provide the same or better services for less.
 
Ideas for Savings
 Hundreds of citizens have been writing in with their ideas on how we can save 5 cents on every tax dollar that we spend. Let me tell you, once we put our minds to it, it's amazing all the ways you can find to save money.
Take just three areas. A vast amount of uncollected bad drivers' surcharges are owed to the state. Yet no attempt has been made to collect them. We're owed unclaimed Federal Medicaid funds for health-care services provided to poor children by their schools. And even an inmate from Rahway state prison wrote in to the Our Tax Dollar program to point out that more than $160 million in fines owed by criminals have never been collected.
Together these three areas alone offer the potential for closing the budget gap by several hundred millions of dollars. What's more, almost $200 million has been left unspent in each of the last two budgets because programs were overfunded. I am directing my Cabinet to try to save at least that much from current-year accounts. Budget cuts are just part of the equation.
To cut taxes in each of the next three fiscal years will require sustained economic growth. Economic growth doesn't just happen. We have to plan for it, encourage it and court it. That is why I have directed my Secretary of State to serve as an advocate for business. And it's why the first executive order of my administration, which I will sign in front of you today, creates the New Jersey Economic Master Plan Commission. This commission will develop the long-term strategy we need to make New Jersey the economic powerhouse it deserves to be.
Done.
 
The Campaign for Jobs
 Make no mistake about it, we are in a battle for jobs with Pennsylvania, the Carolinas and the Sun Belt every single day. One of the main reasons we've been losing that battle is state government. We must cut through the needless overregulation that drives businesses out of New Jersey and discourages new firms from locating here.
We can protect the environment without taking years to process a permit. Our businesses deserve better, and you deserve better. It isn't just a question of money being wasted. It's a question of duplication, inept planning and inadequate services.
We have 68 Department of Labor field offices. Yet in some counties we require unemployed workers to sign up for unemployment benefits in one office and then drive 10 miles to another office to find out what jobs are available.
Look at how the state regulates cemeteries. If you are buried only with members of your own religion your corpse is regulated by the Attorney General's office. But if you're buried in a nonsectarian cemetery, the Department of Banking has jurisdiction over your remains. That's right, banking. Do we really need two different state agencies to regulate the dead?
 
$15 Billion Corporation
 From cradle to grave our state government needs reform. We must reinvent government the way American corporations have been reinventing themselves to survive in the 1990's. You elected me as a chief executive officer of a $15 billion service corporation with 60,000 employees. And that's what we're going to provide -- service -- efficient, cost-effective service. After all, we work for you.
And of all the tasks we are entrusted to perform as your government, nothing is more sacred than our responsibility to educate your children. The school system we have today was developed in the 19th century to prepare the children of farmers and new immigrants for an industrial revolution that wanted bodies for repetitive factory work. The world has changed. And our education system must change with it. Employers today require a highly educated work force that knows how to think and how to be creative.
The state that can provide the best educated workers is the state that will be the powerhouse of the 21st century. The states that fail will fall behind. We must make New Jersey No. 1. We, parents, teachers, students, administrators, government leaders and business executives must work together to reinvent education. We must make it our top priority to teach our children, all our children, to read in kindergarten and first grade and second grade, when they're enthusiastic about learning. That way we will not have to spend tens of millions of dollars in junior high school, high school and college trying to rectify the failures of the past.
 
Competition for Schools
 We are going to inject competition and encourage innovation by developing alternatives like magnet schools and charter schools within our public school systems to give parents a choice of where to send their children.
Schools should compete for the chance to teach our children. They are our greatest treasure. If we are going to teach democracy in our schools, we should practice democracy in our school systems.
In Jersey City five long years of state control have not fixed schools that continue to do far too little. We should give Mayor Brett Schundler the green light to test school vouchers and invite the top school experts in the nation to measure the results.
We will get politics out of the Department of Education by giving the Education Commissioner an independent five-year term. We will push authority down to the local level, because I trust parents who love their children to get involved in school boards and P.T.A.'s. The state can give you better schools, but you must be responsible for raising your children.
We will develop a strong core curriculum that teaches every student the basics of reading, writing, arithmetic and respect for our nation's heritage. We will make our schools safe and we will demand discipline in our classrooms. The last thing children should learn about in school is violence and fear.
 
Victims of Crime
 Personal safety is a sacred right in America. Our children, our parents, all of us deserve to live in peace. Yet far too many of us are imprisoned by fear of crime. Some say we should turn our heads, give up and just accept a violent crime-ridden society. Some say crime is too tough a problem to solve. My answer to them: we're tougher.
We know that a small percentage of hardened criminals commit most of the violent crime. It's time to make every criminal know that he or she will serve 70 percent of the court sentence. For three-time violent offenders, those who make a career out of crime, it should be three strikes and you're in, for life.
We also need to set up boot camps and other alternatives to teach young people who are toying with the criminal life that they want to go straight instead. Everybody deserves a second chance, but not a third.
Criminals are not the victims of society. Society is the victim of criminals.
The way to make our streets safe again is to make sure criminals know they will pay surely and perhaps permanently for their crimes, and we will.
 
Unity of Vision
 Our blueprint to make New Jersey first is an agenda of economic growth, good schools and safe streets, an agenda of hope, optimism and determination, of government that is for the people because it is of and by the people. The hope, the vision, the strength of our people, is our guarantee of success.
And what remarkable people make up this state. In the factories of Paterson and the research laboratories of Princeton, in the ethnic neighborhoods of Perth Amboy and the senior-citizen villages of Lakewood, in the towns of the Shores and the Pinelands and in the cities like Camden and Newark, all across our state, I have come to know so many of New Jersey's people. We are one family, one community, one state.
There is a phrase in Spanish that means all that, Somos un solo pueblo. When one of us is out of work, homeless, cannot read, is a victim of violent crime, we all suffer. And when we help one another succeed, we all succeed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Gov. Jim Florio and his wife, Lucinda, listening to Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's inaugural speech. Governor Whitman called for an immediate tax cut. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; INAUGURATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); CRIME PREVENTION (69%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



492 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
In many college dorms, brand pitches replace Che, rock bands and James Dean as poster subjects.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
WOULD you buy advertising posters and plaster a room with them? Of course not, you say.
If you're a college student, though, the alternative to pinning up glossy images from Madison Avenue might be staring at cinder block painted as cheerily as a battleship. 
 Now have your tastes in decorating changed?
That's the idea behind a company, Posters Preferred Inc., started by two former employees of Procter & Gamble who are themselves not long out of college. The company's Beyond the Wall catalogue, based in Westport, Conn., offers students an opportunity to order oversized ad posters. More than 500,000 copies are being circulated this month on 80 campuses nationwide; plans call for 2.5 million catalogues to be distributed at about 400 campuses in August.
The initial issue, running 24 pages, sells posters from marketers including Coca-Cola, Levi Strauss, Nabisco Foods, Pepsi-Cola, P.& G. and Volkswagen. The first poster ordered costs $10, the second $8.50, and each additional one $7, plus shipping.
"The idea came to me in college, when I was playing basketball in the gym," said Brian Gordon, 24, co-founder of Posters Preferred, who graduated from the University of Pennsylvania before working at P.& G. as a brand assistant on Head & Shoulders shampoo.
"There was a great banner in the rafters for ESPN, and I had to have it." After acting on his larcenous impulses, he said, "as I was running through campus, hoping not to get arrested, I thought, 'Why can't you buy these?' "
Dennis Roche, 28, the other co-founder, who graduated from Georgetown University before working on Bain de Soleil and the Pantene Pro-V hair care line at P.& G., said: "The ad is a billboard. And it lives with a student who's a point-of-entry consumer, so to speak."
The pair's efforts exemplify the unconventional approaches being made to aim sales pitches at the nation's 13.7 million college students, particularly those whom Roper College Track, a research service of Roper Starch Worldwide of New York, calls the core of the college market, the 5.1 million full-time undergraduates at four-year schools.
Students tantalize marketers because they are still forming their brand loyalties. And Roper College Track estimates the core group's total annual personal buying power at $25 billion. But students' life styles place them out of range of most advertising in traditional media.
"This is opportunistically a way to build awareness among a fairly difficult-to-reach audience," said Fran Myers, senior director of integrated marketing at the Nabisco Biscuit Company unit of Nabisco Foods of East Hanover, N.J. The company is offering a poster, 31 inches by 40 inches, titled "Indulgence," displaying a glass of milk surrounded by stacks of Oreo cookies.
Susan McDermott, a spokeswoman for the Coca-Cola Company in Atlanta, said, "This was a new and creative avenue by which we could reach an important demographic group." Coca-Cola has the back cover of Beyond the Wall, offering a 31-inch-by-40-inch version of a print advertisement for Coca-Cola Classic featuring an Always Cool polar bear from a popular commercial.
Mr. Gordon and Mr. Roche met at P.& G., refined the ad poster concept during walks home from the company's headquarters in Cincinnati and left last year for the entrepreneurial life. They are using lessons learned at P.& G. to operate Posters Preferred, which they began with a couple of hundred thousand dollars in personal savings and investment capital.
"This is the P.& G. coming out," Mr. Gordon said, smiling, as he recalled focus group interviews during which he and Mr. Roche asked students why they buy posters. (The most common answer: "To express something about myself.")
P.& G. decided to offer a Bain de Soleil swimsuit poster in Beyond the Wall, Kimberly Stewart, a spokeswoman, said, not because Mr. Roche worked on the brand, but because "we're interested in further developing the college-age market."
Posters Preferred is charging marketers $9,847 for each page in Beyond the Wall. In return, they get 5 percent of the poster sales and the names and addresses of the student customers, which they can add to data bases.
Cynthia Rhea Woods, vice president and management supervisor at TBWA Advertising Inc. in New York, said, "We're very intrigued because posters are a whole different kind of interaction between brand and consumer." TBWA is the agency for Evian water, which is offering a poster, 44 inches by 28 1/2 inches, called "Our Factory," showing the snow-capped French Alps.
TBWA is familiar with ads doubling as wall art because of the many consumers who collect the print ads it creates for Absolut vodka. And in the 1970's, marketers like Anheuser-Busch and Warner-Lambert distributed small free ad posters with college newspapers.
If memory serves, one for Listerine mouthwash showed a bottle perched on a narrow ledge at Notre Dame in Paris alongside a grotesque statue.
The caption? "Gargoyle with Listerine."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (83%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (83%); SIC1761 ROOFING, SIDING, & SHEET METAL WORK (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: POSTERS PREFERRED INC KRAFT NABISCO (83%); PREFERRED INC (72%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (56%); GFK AG (53%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTERS PREFERRED INC UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; POSTERS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CATALOGUES STUDENT HOUSING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS MARKET (78%); NEW ISSUES (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); YOUTH MARKET (73%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (70%); POP & ROCK (67%); BASKETBALL (66%); BRAND EQUITY (65%); 

PERSON: GORDON, BRIAN; ROCHE, DENNIS; ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



493 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Post Modest Price Gain

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities posted modest gains yesterday amid expectations that the Federal Reserve Bank is not about to raise short-term interest rates. The gains reversed some losses from late last week, but came in the same choppy trading pattern.
By late in the day, the 30-year Government bond was being offered at a price of 9927/32 to yield 6.26 percent, down from 6.29 percent on Friday. Prices and yields move in opposite directions. 
 With no major economic news, analysts said that market participants were inclined to remain on the sidelines. The recent spate of upbeat economic news had left traders edgy and reluctant to take major positions, they said. Besides, traders said, there is a tendency in the market to lower prices of Government securities ahead of Treasury auctions.
 
Terms of Auction
 The Treasury is expected to announce today the terms of its coming two- and five-year note auctions, set respectively for Jan. 25 and 26.
Analysts at MMS International said the market traded lower early in the session, led by some heavy selling from a Japanese account and some dealers in the five-year sector, ahead of today's auction announcement.
With two-year and five-year notes to be auctioned next week and the Fed's quarterly refunding coming next month, the supply of Treasury securities is creating some uneasiness in the market, especially given the uncertainty over the first quarter's economic outlook, one dealer said.
Analysts said that securities with shorter maturities benefited from an abundance of cash in the market, as the proceeds from $21 billion in maturing seven-year notes and cash-management bills this week flow into the bill sector.
 
A Place to Park
 Investors generally seek out Treasury bills as a safe place to park money until the outlook on the economy and market is more concrete. This reinvestment appeal was evident in the weekly Treasury bill auction, which drew strong demand.
The economic numbers the market has come to rely on for direction may not yet provide clear-cut answers. Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities Inc., said that he did not trust economic numbers released in January or other winter months "especially those influenced by bad weather and earthquakes."
"They possess an unpredictable nature, and seasonal factors can't account for the random movement of winter month numbers." Mr. Fine said.
Mr. Fine said trade balance figures scheduled to be issued today should show the merchandise trade deficit at around $11 billion. "You'd need a number significantly far and away from the consensus to impact the market," he said.
The Johnson Redbook survey of retail sales' most recent figures showed that sales among selected leading retailers in the first two weeks of January rose 3.5 percent from the first two weeks of December.
 
Sees a Decline
 Mr. Fine said he expected to see a decline next week. "There's no doubt that bad weather in the Northeast and the California quake will affect retail sales numbers," he said.
As far as tomorrow's figures for December housing starts, "housing is on the upturn," Mr. Fine said. "I'm saying the number will be up a little," he added. "If it's down it's an aberration, but if it's up, it's a trend."
Dealers said many in the market were sure the Fed would in time raise short-term interest rates, but not before it had definitive evidence of growth.
Business inventories in October and December were up on strong auto numbers, since Detroit usually restocks inventories of automobile and trucks before retooling in the third quarter for the new models. But auto sales have fallen off, traders said, and if the current sales pace is not increased significantly, those sales, which have been a leading engine for the gross domestic product, will not be much of a factor in the second quarter.
 
Weekly Bill Auction
 The Treasury drew strong investor demand yesterday at its weekly bill auction of new three- and six-month securities. Traders said the auction of $25.2 billion in bills produced an average rate of 2.99 percent for a three-month bill and 3.15 percent for a six-month bill. Both were down from the previous auction, when the average rates were 3.02 percent and 3.18 percent, respectively.
The following are the results of the bill auction:

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows the average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction from Oct. 1993-Jan. 1994. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 
Table: "(000 omitted in dollar figures)"
 

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
Both issues are dated Jan. 20, 1994. The three-month bills mature on April 21, 1994, and the six-month billsmature on July 21, 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CHASE SECURITIES INC (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); RETAILERS (71%); RETAIL SALES (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



494 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Japan Airlines Will Cut 5,000 Jobs in Revamping

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 18

 BODY:
In the days of Japan's economic boom, the nation's corporate warriors would fly off to their latest conquest in the lavish first-class or business-class sections of Japan Airlines.
But in tight economic times, Japan's humbled businessmen are flying coach. Or even worse, as far as Japan Airlines is concerned, they are flying on United. 
 Weighed down by the nation's lingering recession, the strong yen and aggressive competition, Japan Airlines said today that it would trim 5,000 people, or about 23 percent of its work force, over the next four years as part of an extensive reorganization aimed at cutting costs.
 
Hiring Foreigners
 The company, which has had heavy losses, said it would make the cuts through attrition, early retirements, transfers to subsidiaries and reduction of hiring. Only 80 pilots will be hired in the next fiscal year -- no flight attendants, ground crew members or office workers. And many of the flight attendants to be hired will be foreigners who can be paid less than Japanese workers.
J.A.L. also said it would cut its planned investment on new aircraft and ground operations in the four-year period almost in half, to 440 billion yen, or about $4 billion. As part of that cutback, the company will defer delivery of six Boeing 747 jumbo jets, a spokesman said.
While the airline previously instituted wage freezes, hiring freezes, voluntary retirement programs and other cost-cutting steps, the plan announced today was the most aggressive yet, reflecting the recognition by J.A.L. that its way of doing business was ill suited for the competition in today's airline industry.
The carrier, which was Government controlled until 1987, was known for pampering customers and employees. It uses 19 flight attendants on a jumbo jet flight between Tokyo and New York, while some competitors might use as few as 13, said Geoffrey Tudor, a J.A.L. spokesman. Pilots were taken to and from Narita Airport in Tokyo in limousines.
But with Japan's economy in a slump, sales of lucrative first-class and business-class seats are down significantly. American carriers, sharpened by deregulation in the United States, have become tough competitors, offering low prices and incentives like frequent-flier plans, which Japan Airlines and other Asian carriers were slow to match. A new airport that will open later this year in Osaka will allow foreign carriers to increase their service to Japan, putting even more pressure on J.A.L.
 
Continuing Poor Results
 Japan Airlines expects a net loss of 26 billion yen, or about $234 million, in the fiscal year ending in March, after a net loss the year before of 43.8 billion yen, or about $395 million. Revenues in this fiscal year are expected to fall for the fourth consecutive year, to 970 billion yen, or about $8.7 billion.
Susumu Yamaji, chairman of Japan Airlines, said J.A.L. and other carriers worldwide were losing money because of overcapacity in the industry. "That overcapacity is mostly provided by American carriers," he said late last year.
He has frequently complained that the 1952 aviation treaty between the United States and Japan is outdated and unfair because it gives more flights to American carriers even though most passengers between the two nations are Japanese.
To seek relief from the international market, Japan Airlines is trying to gain more business in Japan's protected and high-priced domestic market. But right now, that market is hurt by the recession as well, so Japan Airlines sometimes flies nearly empty jumbo jets on 90-minute hops.
Robert Rowland, an analyst with Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities in Tokyo, said the steps announced today should allow the airline to earn a small profit in the next fiscal year instead of the loss he had projected.
"It changes my forecast quite dramatically," he said. "It will give them a fighting chance next year."
The airline previously said it expected that in four years as many as 30 percent of the cabin attendants on international flights would be foreigners. A Thai attendant, for instance, who lives in her home country, can be paid only a fourth as much as a Japanese attendant.
 
More Work for Charter Unit
 Today, J.A.L. said it planned to make more use of Japan Air Charter, a low-cost unit it set up in 1992 that has only Thai attendants and mainly uses American contract pilots.
While the unit now makes mainly charter flights, it would increasingly take over scheduled J.A.L. flights, mainly to tourist destinations like Hawaii. After the four-year revamping period, Japan Air Charter is expected to account for 20 percent of Japan Airlines' overseas flights, said Mr. Tudor, the spokesman.
As for the limos to the airport, those were eliminated in a previous cost-cutting move. "We succeeded in getting pilots to take taxis," Mr. Tudor said. Of course, in Tokyo, even a taxi ride to Narita airport can cost more than $100.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN AIRLINES BOEING CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAPAN AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN ; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CAPITAL INVESTMENT ; DISCOUNT RATE; PRICES AIRLINES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); RECESSION (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); EARLY RETIREMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



495 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: How One New York Coffee Bar Came to Be

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
ON the southwest corner of 91st Street and Broadway stands Joe Bar, a modest glass and brick testament to the dreams of a New York couple and a college friend.
This is the story of Joe Bar, which began its commercial life on Nov. 20. It is also the story of three neophytes who seized upon the American dream of owning a business, refusing to be deterred by the naysayers, who warned of recession, high rents and other formidable risks. 

 
THE BEGINNING: JANUARY 1991
 David and Amelia Silver. A happily married couple, both 31, both on fast tracks toward successful careers in finance and marketing in New York. On a trip to San Francisco, the Silvers stopped in for coffee at Pete's, a trendy coffee bar. Mr. Silver, a copywriter at Ogilvy & Mather, the advertising agency, turned to his wife, a manager at the Bankers Trust Company, and said, "Wouldn't a coffee bar like this be great in New York?"
Mrs. Silver was intrigued by the West Coast coffee bars, casual places for people to meet, hang out and drink great coffee. Soon they were dreaming of opening their own coffee bar.
Back in New York, sleep didn't come easy. The Silvers were jolted awake by the voices of other coffee-bar owners who cautioned them to think twice. Would New Yorkers, who like their coffee in a New York minute, at no more than 50 cents a cup, be willing to pay $2 or $3 for special brews? Was the New York market ready for coffee bars?
Nonetheless, the Silvers saw opportunity on every corner. "New York is a very sophisticated city, and the product made a lot of sense," Mrs. Silver said. "We felt we could do well because of the density, amount of buildings and pedestrian traffic."
 
 
THE EDUCATION OF THE SILVERS
 Mr. and Mrs. Silver spent the better part of 1992 reading about coffee and attending business seminars. They enrolled in "How to Open a Coffee Bar" at the Learning Annex, a three-hour course taught by Paul Bernstein and Alan Phillips, the owners of Cooper's Coffee, two Upper West Side coffee bars. Mrs. Silver also attended a seminar sponsored by the Specialty Coffee Association of America.
"We figured if we were really serious, we'd better study up on the coffee business," Mr. Silver recalled. Although Mrs. Silver had done some catering in high school, the food business -- and all it entailed -- was no lifelong dream. It was new to them. But "by the time we started the actual process," Mr. Silver said, "we pretty much knew what our strategy was going to be, knew the kind of numbers we wanted to hit and whether that was achievable."
Basing their figures on the industry average, the couple knew it would take about $200,000 to open a coffee bar in Manhattan. Rather than seeking financing from investors, a process that would have delayed the opening, they decided to go it alone, using their own savings and some money borrowed from relatives. Before taking the next step, another essential piece was necessary: finding someone to manage the bar.
He and his wife couldn't afford to give up their day jobs, Mr. Silver said. "We had to find someone with a solid background in business, someone we could trust, to go in with us on this," he added.
Alison Prioleau, 31, a friend of Mr. Silver's from their college days at Wesleyan University, was the first person to come to mind. When Mr. Silver telephoned, she was working on an M.B.A. at New York University, planning to teach or start her own business.
"Coffee's a great, interesting product, but it's gotten a dated image," Ms. Prioleau remembers Mr. Silver telling her. Within a few minutes, her old college buddy had convinced her that New York needed a coffee bar -- with her as its manager.
 
 
THE LOCATION
 With Ms. Prioleau joining them as the manager and as an investor, the Silvers were ready to scout locations. The early part of 1993 was devoted "to finding the right spot," Mr. Silver said.
Initially, they looked in the Wall Street area.
"In scouting locations there, we noticed that everything starts early, around 6:30 A.M., and by 10 A.M., it's dead," Mrs. Silver said. "Plus, most of the business down there is five days a week. The weekends are dead. We knew we weren't going to be able to make a go of this in a 'three hour a day, five days a week' business, so we decided to look in midtown."
They estimated that they would need 300 to 400 customers a day to survive, the sort of traffic not easy to come by in most locations.
The rents in midtown were in the $10,000-a-month range, more than they wanted to pay, although the rent in the location they finally chose was no lower.
They found several storefronts on the Upper East Side, some priced at half of what was being asked in midtown. But they thought volume of the pedestrian traffic was too low.
"We would stand on a corner at a certain time of day and just watch the traffic go by a location and try to gauge what it was," Mrs. Silver said. "We weren't comfortable with the numbers."
It was June when Mrs. Silver spotted a "For Lease" sign in a shop on the west side of Broadway at the corner of 91st Street.
"For us, Broadway was the perfect location," Mr. Silver said. "It's open seven days a week, versus five. Also, it was a corner store, located on the west side of the street, which meant more of a premium. The sun rises in the east, so in the morning you get a lot of sunlight. And for some reason, people naturally walk on the west side of Broadway." Especially in the morning, when they are heading downtown to work -- and when they would want coffee.
In mid-September, the three principals signed a 10-year lease for the 600-square-foot space. The target date for opening was Nov. 16.
 
 
THE COFFEE AND RENOVATIONS
 To meet that goal, construction would have to begin by the first of October. The principals hired an expediter to help them navigate the city's byzantine licensing process.
Considerable time was spent at coffee roasters trying to find a special blend that would best suit discerning New Yorkers.
"We'd go to different roasters for tastings," Ms. Prioleau said. The roasters would pour hot water over freshly ground beans, allowing the coffee to brew until a crust formed at the top. Then the tasters would put their noses next to the cup, and with a spoon, break the crust. That released the aromas and allowed a close evaluation of the coffee. After that, they tasted the liquid. Within six weeks, the three neophytes were talking the language: a blend was not simply "good" but "rich, robust, not lacking acidity points." They chose a special blend of Costa Rican, Tanzanian and Sumatran beans.
The first major problem the principals encountered was an architect whose visions were far grander, and much more expensive, than theirs. They finally parted company and found another architect, the husband of one of Mr. Silver's colleagues at Ogilvy & Mather.
"We wanted a post-industrial look, and he came up with a lot of options," Mrs. Silver said.
Ms. Prioleau added: "We didn't want it to be too feminine or too cold and masculine. What we ended up with was a space that is mid-tech and homey without being clubby."
Some 120 applicants responded to a "help wanted" advertisement in The Village Voice. Ms. Prioleau chose 12 employees, whom she described as students and " 'struggling artist' types." The renovations were completed by Nov. 16, the planned opening date.
 
 
JOE BAR
 Seats 22. Open weekdays from 7 A.M. to 9 P.M., Saturdays from 8 A.M. to 10 P.M., and Sundays from 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. Menu includes caffe latte, espresso, cappuccino, house blend, cafe au lait and a special coffee of the week.
Mr. Silver came up with the name from "a cup of joe," 1940's slang for "a cup of coffee."
"The older types get it right away," Mr. Silver said. "Some of the younger clientele get it, but most come in here looking for Joe."
Despite its sleek tile and chrome decor, the bar has a warm, cozy ambiance, with its steel Rancilio espresso machine, a Fetco coffee brewer and Bunn warmers, track lighting, gray steel bar stools and tinted windows.
In plexiglass cases are an assortment of baked goods, everything from scones, muffins and bagels to chocolate cake, a selection culled from the suggestions of people in the business who knew the names of suppliers. Two weeks ago, light sandwiches with fillings like cheese and grilled vegetables were added to the menu. Hearty soups may be next. T-shirts, aprons and mugs with the Joe Bar logo -- a black and white sketch of a mug with droopy eyes, protruding nose and three strands of steam serving as hair -- are also on sale.
On the first day of business -- on Nov. 20, four days after the target date -- there were lines waiting outside the door.
"We learned our first lesson," Mr. Silver said. "Never open on a Saturday. It was a nice, sunny day, and we weren't prepared for the flow of customers."
Since its opening, the bar has drawn 300 to 400 customers a day.
 
 
EPILOGUE
 "We're doing better than we thought," Mrs. Silver said. "We thought we'd run much more of a loss in the beginning, and we haven't." In fact, the partners have had several tentative inquiries about selling their fledgling business.
Her husband added, "We're not out of the woods yet, but we've made money." He wouldn't say exactly how much.
Mr. and Mrs. Silver both work in Joe Bar on weekends. "People come in here just to wish us good luck," she said. "I think most everyone has thought of being an entrepreneur. It's kind of an American dream. But a lot of people don't have the courage to do it."
When the partners first made their plans, coffee bars were rare in New York. Now, they seem to be popping up on every block, more than a dozen in Manhattan in the last two years, by some estimates. Ted Lingle, the executive director of the Specialty Coffee Association, said that nationally, the number of coffeehouses and stand-up bars is projected to grow to 10,000 in 1999, up from 200 in 1989.
So far, Joe Bar's closest competitor is Cooper's Coffee at Broadway and 75th Street. But the partners believe that if they serve good coffee, they will flourish, no matter how many coffee bars open.
The Silvers and Ms. Prioleau see Joe Bar as only the beginning. Someday, they say dreamily, they'd like to see Joe Bars across America.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrons at Joe Bar, at Broadway and 91st Street; An assortment of baked goods are available, along with special coffees, espressos and cappuccinos; The owners, from left, Alison Prioleau and David and Amelia Silver. (Photography by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) (pg. C6)
 
Drawing. "What Dreams Cost"
 Opening a coffee bar requires capital to lease space, renovate, buy equipment and inventory, and hire help. To start Joe Bar, the partners spent about $200,000. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOE BAR (COFFEE BAR) OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (57%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOE BAR (COFFEE BAR)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; RESTAURANTS MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); COFFEE (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); WRITERS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); 

PERSON: SILVER, AMELIA; SILVER, DAVID; PRIOLEAU, ALISON; WILLIAMS, LENA

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



496 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Owners Adopt Revenue Plan, But It's Tied To Salary Cap

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Jan. 18

 BODY:
A Missouri Compromise propelled major league club owners to unanimous agreement tonight on a revenue-sharing plan that Bud Selig, the game's acting commissioner, called historic, unique and meaningful. But only labor negotiations with the players' union will determine if the plan ever goes into effect.
"This does not take effect until and unless there is a salary cap-type of basic agreement," cautioned Richard Ravitch, the clubs' chief labor executive, who worked for more than a year to produce an agreement under which clubs will share a greater portion of their local revenue. 
 The beginning of the end of Ravitch's quest came at midafternoon today when Stuart Meyer, the president and chief executive officer of the St. Louis Cardinals, presented a plan that was a compromise between the revenue-sharing plans favored by the high-revenue clubs and the low-revenue clubs.
"It's got some of the good points of both sides," said John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox, a spokesman for the group of eight high-revenue clubs that had blocked an agreement. "It's a consensus plan and that's what he's labeled it."
After an extensive series of caucuses at which Meyer's plan was altered back and forth, the owners approved the resulting plan, 28-0, at 9:25 P.M. to cheers and loud applause that resounded beyond their meeting room at Marriott's Harbor Beach Resort.
The agreement will allow the owners to proceed with two other critical matters: the election of a commissioner and the beginning of negotiations with the Players Association for a new collective bargaining agreement.
A group of low-revenue clubs had threatened to block the election of a commissioner if a new revenue-sharing plan were not adopted, and negotiations with the union had been put on hold a year ago pending the outcome of Ravitch's effort with the owners.
That effort could turn out to be futile. The players long have opposed a salary cap, and the past year hasn't produced a change in their stance. When Donald Fehr, the head of the union, was informed tonight of the owners' action, he was not overwhelmed.
"There's nothing like pre-determining the end of negotiations before you start," Fehr said by telephone from his home in Rye Brook, N.Y., alluding to the owners' insistence on a salary cap. "If the real hard part of the negotiations is supposed to be with players, I wonder how much time the owners have allocated to that. I would suggest many moons."
Selig and Ravitch refused to disclose details of the new plan, saying Ravitch had to inform Fehr first before they would make anything public. Basically, though, the plan will call for the wealthier clubs, like the Yankees and the Mets, to put a percentage of their local revenue into a pool that will be distributed to the poorer clubs, like the Milwaukee Brewers and the Pittsburgh Pirates.
Based on last year's revenue, Ravitch said, speaking in approximate terms and without offering figures, one-third of the clubs would have paid a significant amount of money, one-third would have received money and one-third would have been in the middle, neither paying nor receiving.
The collection and distribution of revenue, Ravitch further explained, will depend on "revenues, expenses and economic events, which we can't predict. So you could have 10 payers, 10 receivers and 8 who neutral out. But that number could change one way or another depending on economic circumstances. Clubs that meet certain economic standards pay, those that meet others receive. Some clubs, for example, will get new stadiums that transfer them from payees to payers."
There had been speculation in recent weeks that if the high-revenue clubs ever agreed to a plan, it would be so watered down that the low-revenue clubs would not get any significant funds. Discussing that possibility last week, Jerry Bell, president of the Minnesota Twins, a low-revenue club, said there would be a point beyond which it would be meaningless for clubs in the Twins' classification to approve it.
Asked tonight about the plan that was adopted, Bell said, "You can assume we do not see this as meaningless."
George Steinbrenner of the Yankees, who had been one of the staunchest opponents of a new plan, declined to comment as the owners walked swiftly to a dinner that had been delayed for three hours while they continued to hammer out a plan agreeable to everyone. Passage required 21 votes.
Ravitch was asked what was in this plan for clubs that will have to pay out money.
"They will derive an economic benefit from it," he said, tired but elated at the development. "There will be a higher degree of competitive balance. If you're a big-market club, you care about how many people come to your stadium. If a club 35 games behind comes in, you don't draw as well. They also will benefit from a new economic arrangement with the players."
Fehr and the players have said it doesn't matter to them how the owners distribute the money among themselves, that it would have no impact on them. But Ravitch said, "If there was not this agreement, we could not make such a proposal to the union because we wouldn't be in a position to fund that obligation to the union."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (74%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA TWINS BASEBALL CLUB (55%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (74%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES; WAGES AND SALARIES SPORTS REVENUES (92%); BASEBALL (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); POLITICS (74%); RESORTS (66%); APPROVALS (65%); BEACHES (64%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BUD SELIG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



497 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS;
CBS Wins the Rights to '98 Winter Games

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
One month after losing the TV rights to pro football to the Fox Network, CBS will announce tomorrow its victory over Fox in securing the rights to the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, for an estimated $375 million.
Winning the Nagano rights provides a crucial jolt of adrenaline and good news to CBS Sports by providing a major event to look forward to so quickly after its failed football negotiations. And last year, CBS lost a last-ditch bid to renew its deal with major league baseball and was greatly outbid by NBC for the rights to the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. 
 The $375 million is the most ever paid for the rights to the Winter Olympics, eclipsing the $309 million ABC paid in 1988 for Calgary Games. CBS paid $295 million for next month's Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway.
"We surveyed the lay of the land and decided to do business with CBS," said Richard Pound, the International Olympic Committee's chief television negotiator. CBS is closely identified with the Winter Olympics; it broadcast the 1992 Games in Albertville, France, and its telecasts of the 16 days in Lillehammer will begin on Feb. 12.
 
Essentially Only One Bid
 But CBS was essentially the sole bidder. NBC and ABC had dropped out, deeming the expected price tag too steep. And Fox was told by the I.O.C. to cut its teeth on National Football Conference games before bidding on the Olympics. Fox, which knocked CBS out of pro football coverage after 38 years, won the N.F.C. rights beginning next season and lasting through 1997.
Upon winning the rights to the N.F.C. on Dec. 17, Fox executives voiced considerable interest in bidding for the Nagano rights.
"We met with Rupert Murdoch in December," Pound said, referring to Fox's owner. "They were enthusiastic, but between Fox and the I.O.C., we concluded the best thing for them to do was to concentrate on the N.F.L. You don't go from A to Z in a single day."
Betsy Hoffman, a Fox spokeswoman, had no comment on Pound's remarks.
The next Olympic rights negotiation will be in approximately two years for the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney, Australia, Murdoch's homeland.
Pound said that once Fox was eliminated from the mix, the I.O.C. and CBS negotiated to reach the $375 million sum.
CBS executives were unavailable to explain why, without competition, it bid so much for the Nagano rights or whether it chose to overpay to make a statement about its long-term viability in sports broadcasting.
Without football, CBS's primary properties are college basketball; golf, highlighted by the Masters; auto racing, including the Daytona 500, and the United States Open tennis championships.

 
 
'It's a Good Deal'
 "Considering the agenda CBS needs for its sports division," said Jon Mandel, senior vice president of Grey Advertising, "it's a good deal, but we'll have to see what the sports economy will be in four years."
CBS said it broke even on its Albertville telecasts; Mandel said the network would "come close to profiting on Lillehammer."
According to Pound, the I.O.C. and CBS had similar ideas about what the Nagano rights were worth.
"The number we reached was within both our ranges," he said. "I have no desire to make a killing and get out of town with an unfair price."
Asked whether the price reflected CBS's urgent desire to make a post-football statement, he said: "There may have been some of that, but all I can say is that the price we agreed on was one we thought to be reasonable."

 
 
N.F.L.'s Gain Is Nagano's, Too
 Dennis Swanson, the president of ABC Sports, said: "Nagano benefits from its particular place in the negotiating phase, coming right after the N.F.L."
Bob Silberberg, executive vice president of Backer Spielvogel Bates, the advertising agency, said: "I'm amazed the price went that high, but CBS wouldn't do it it if weren't supported financially."
CBS could reduce its financial exposure by linking up with a partner. For the 1992 and 1994 Winter Olympics, TNT has paid a combined $50 million to CBS for the cable rights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (96%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%); 

COUNTRY: NORWAY (92%); JAPAN (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CHUBU JAPAN (90%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (58%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC CBS CORP (96%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (73%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (73%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORWAY (92%); JAPAN (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (69%); CHUBU JAPAN (90%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (58%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1998); TELEVISION; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS) OLYMPICS (97%); WINTER OLYMPICS (94%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); WINTER SPORTS (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); TENNIS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BASEBALL (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); AUTO RACING (61%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



498 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
California businesses disrupted by Monday's earthquake began cleaning up and assessing damage. [Page A1.]
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll showed confidence that the economy would grow. Thirty-one percent said the economy was "getting better," compared with 19 percent in November. [A1.] 
 A surprising winter in the East and Midwest has created a big demand for shovels and rock salt, causing widespread shortages in stores. Tool makers shifted their production from snow shovels to rakes, hoes and trowels several months ago, and some manufacturers are scrambling to meet the demand. [D1.]
Utilities from New Jersey to Virginia cut electrical power for up to an hour because of the cold weather. [B6.]
The Federal Reserve's "beige book" report showed the economy picking up pace as 1994 began. [D7.]

Companies
Pennzoil said the I.R.S. was preparing to demand nearly $1 billion in back taxes and interest from the company's $3 billion settlement with Texaco in 1988. [D1.]
A Federal judge heard arguments on whether Prudential Securities deceived clients in the sale of energy limited partnerships. The judge is being asked to approve a class-action settlement stemming from the partnership scandal. [D1.]
Digital Equipment reported a loss for the quarter, surprising analysts who had expected a small profit. [D1.]
Disappointing fourth-quarter earnings by Pfizer sent its shares tumbling. Stocks of other drug makers fell more modestly. [D4.]
A report on the collapse of Phar-Mor says a 1991 memo that pointed to possible irregularities at the discount drug company was soon destroyed on the orders of the company's chairman. [D4.]
A strike by American Airlines flight attendants last fall cost the carrier $190 million and led to a loss for the quarter. [D4.]
Hanwa of Japan, a fast-rising 1980's star, will report more than $1 billion in securities losses. Its flamboyant president quit. [D5.]
CBS defended its decision to buy the television rights to the 1998 Winter Olympics for $375 million. [B12.]
 
International
The value of the ruble plunged 6.5 percent, as negotiations over a new Russian Government continued in secret. [A3.]
After meeting with China's leaders, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said China must do more on human rights, arms control and trade issues to merit renewal of its favored trade status. [A4.]
In a letter to U.S. economists, Japan's Prime Minister repeated his opposition to setting targets for opening markets. [D2.]
A pledge by Japan to open its construction market has led the Administration to drop its threat to impose trade sanctions. [D2.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks advanced to a new record, while declines in technology stocks dragged down the Nasdaq market. [D8.]
The price of the Treasury's 30-year bond fell in profit taking. Short-term rates were slightly mixed. [D16.]
The dollar rallied against the yen on hopes of a breakthrough in trade talks between Japan and the United States. [D19.]
Oil prices gained, helped by record cold weather in much of the country and the news that a huge pipeline had been shut. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
Just months after narrowly avoiding bankruptcy, Northwest Airlines plans to go public again. Market Place. [D1.]
After completing major free trade agreements, President Clinton certainly looks like an advocate of free trade. So why the tough talk on Japan? Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
A New York radio station finds success in "soft rock" while it redefines it. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (54%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (54%); PHAR-MOR INC (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BONDS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); DRUG PRICES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); CLASS ACTIONS (67%); JUDGES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (65%); AIRLINES (63%); BOND MARKETS (62%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); OLYMPICS (50%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



499 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE: The Work Force;
2 Days After Quake, a Taste of Traffic to Come

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Los Angeles went back to work today, and the city's businesses concentrated on cleaning and coping. Their employees, reporting to the job in large numbers for the first time since the Monday morning earthquake, created some of the worst traffic tie-ups in recent memory.
Offices and plants close to the quake's epicenter in the San Fernando Valley sustained the worst damage, and many businesses there remained closed because they were uninhabitable or because collapsed freeways prevented employees from coming in. 
 But those people who did go to work got a taste of what life would be like for months to come.
Traffic snarled to a standstill along alternative routes to major highways, like the Santa Monica Freeway, that were damaged in the quake. Drives to work that normally took 30 minutes stretched to three hours or more.
Cars and trucks were backed up 10 miles on the northern border of the city, where the collapse of highway ramp closed both Interstate 5 and Highway 14 and forced all north-south traffic to the only alternative route, a much smaller road called Sierra Highway.
Traffic slowed even more in some areas as President Clinton and an entourage toured the San Fernando Valley. Gazing at a collapsed section of the Simi Valley Freeway, Mr. Clinton said, "There's a difference in seeing this, actually standing here and looking at it." [Page A18.]
On several major thoroughfares, like Wilshire, Pico and Santa Monica Boulevards and Sierra Highway, motorists sat bumper to bumper, swearing, honking, reading or listening to music.
When they were finally able to arrive at their place of work, they often spent the day cleaning it up, as at the badly damaged Anheuser-Busch Brewery in the Van Nuys section. Other employees arrived to discover that their businesses were still closed, and still others, who lacked water at home, took advantage of nearby health clubs to bathe.
 
Not Even Good Phone Service
 As usual, Mark C. Matlock, 32, a promotion assistant for the EMI Records Group, drove to his office on Sunset Boulevard from his home in the Rosamond section of Lancaster, 80 miles to the northeast. But what usually took 90 minutes took three hours because he had to use side streets to avoid the closed freeways.
"It was bumper to bumper all the way," Mr. Matlock said, "but the worst part of it was that the car phone didn't work because all the circuits were busy."
Asked if he was looking forward to making the trip twice a day for the next year while repairs were being made, he said, "You have no choice but to barrel in and do it." Still, he left for home early, at 2:30 P.M., hoping to beat the evening rush.
And things could get worst. David Royer, principal engineer in charge of traffic operations for the city's transportation department, said many San Fernando Valley residents did not even try to go to work today because their homes were still without electricity and water.
"We really didn't see the brunt of traffic problems today," Mr. Royer said, "but just wait a few days when everyone absolutely has to be back at work."
 
'Such a Mess'
 Congestion was made worse today, he said, because city engineers were unable to adjust the timing on traffic lights until power was restored and had to use cardboard signs for instructions on detours until the city could prepare the standard metal ones.
Many employees found their offices and businesses in disarray, with file cabinets and desks overturned and ceiling tiles littering the floor, andsome offices were flooded because the quake had activated emergency sprinkler systems. So employees at large and small businesses alike found themselves cleaning up, just like what they had been doing at home over the last 48 hours.
"It was such a mess in here, I thought someone had looted the place," said Cathy Bromley, a sales clerk at the Sky Fashion store in Santa Monica, about 10 miles west of downtown. "It took us three hours to clean up and put things back in order."
The Lockheed Corporation, a weapons contractor in Calabasas, about 10 miles north of the quake's epicenter, said that most of its 5,000 employees in Los Angeles County showed up for work today after being allowed to take Monday and Tuesday off. Keith Mordoff, a Lockheed spokesman, said it would take many days to clean up the sodden debris in the company's offices.
Twenty-seven of First Interstate Bank's 116 branches in the metropolitan area remained closed today because of broken windows, power outages and structural cracks. Employees of those branches had been reassigned, said Ken Preston, a bank spokesman.
In all, First Interstate sustained more than $1 million in structural damages, Mr. Preston estimated, but he said that most of the closed branches, if not all, should be open by the end of the week.
After closing for two days to repair minor damages, some businesses like the Century City Spectrum Club, a health club near Beverly Hills, reopened to discover that they were serving a new function. Members "were coming in to take showers before going to work because they had no water at home," said Dennis Burns, the Spectrum Club's manager.
Commuters from the Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, who were cut off from downtown by the closing of I-5, had the hardest time getting to work. Many formed carpools, took extensive detours or used public transportation like buses and trains.
Pete Harrigan, a Lockheed manager who lives in the Santa Clarita Valley, said he drove to work with several co-workers who live nearby. He said that they spent a lot of time on the phone on Tuesday trying to figure out the best route but that the drive still took about 90 minutes, twice as long as usual.
Many other Santa Clarita Valley residents shifted to the metropolitan area's fledgling light-rail commuter line, Metrolink. The line, which runs four morning trains on the 35-mile route to downtown, increased the number of cars per train to eight from three.
Local economists said it was still too early for credible estimates of how much the quake would cost businesses, but they said it represented yet another disincentive for companies to do business in Southern California along with environmental regulations and high labor costs.
In the short term, the economists said, the quake may jump-start the region's sluggish economy because of an increase in construction work.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The snarl of morning traffic on the Sierra Highway near Sylmar was even tighter yesterday as commuters bypassed State Route 14. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (53%); BUD (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (53%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; SAN FERNANDO VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL EARTHQUAKES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); BREWERIES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (69%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



500 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
NORTH KOREA BUYING SUBMARINES
North Korea has arranged to buy 40 Russian submarines through a Japanese company. The news is unsettling North Korea's neighbors, though Russia says the submarines will be used for scrap metal. A6
 

MORE PRESSURE ON CHINA
United States Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen met with Chinese officials and told them China has not resolved American concerns about human rights and that it must do more to keep trade benefits. A6
 
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT IN FLUX
Negotiations continued over the shape of the new Russian Government, causing further devaluation of the ruble. A reformer reportedly will be reappointed, but it was unclear what his job will be. A3
 
BOSNIA PEACE TALKS DEADLOCKED
Bosnian peace talks ended in a deadlock again after the Bosnian Government rejected an internationally agreed peace plan, but Serbia and Croatia signed an agreement that improved relations. A8
 
U.N. DISPUTE OVER BOSNIA
A dispute between the Secretary General and the General in charge of United Nations forces in Bosnia shows a growing rift between peacekeeping troops in the Balkans and leaders of the organization. A8
 
ITALIAN PARTY'S NEW LOOK
Italy's dominant Christian Democratic Party, embarrassed by scandals, is changing its name and its leaders, hoping to salvage some of its power. A8
 
KIDNAPPING IN COLOMBIA
Two American missionaries were kidnapped in Colombia, in what was seen as a protest against United States military aid, a point of growing discontent in Colombia. A9
 
STRIKE IN ZAIRE
Hundreds of thousands of people took part in a general strike in Zaire to protest President Mobutu's plan to dissolve Parliament and name a new Prime Minister. A7
 
Torkham Journal: Afghan gate to Pakistan swings shut. A4
 
National A12-19, B7
 
WORKERS DO POST-QUAKE TRIAGE
Businesses disrupted by Monday's earthquake began cleaning up and assessing damage, as employees reported to work in large numbers, creating some of the worst traffic tie-ups in recent memory. A1
 
CLINTON VISITS LOS ANGELES
President Clinton rode out a strong aftershock as he viewed earthquake damage he described as "amazing" and promised "unusual and unprecedented" steps to help the Los Angeles area recover. A18
 
QUAKE POSITS NEW DANGERS
In the wake of the Los Angeles earthquake, structural engineers may be shifting their focus from the dangers of unreinforced masonry buildings to those of wood-frame structures with first-floor garages. A18
 
Los Angeles officials do not know when schools will reopen. A18
 
Two days after the quake, thousands of people remain homeless. A19
 
NUNN DECLINED DEFENSE POST
The White House asked Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia last week if he would take the job of Defense Secretary, but he refused, Administration officials said. A1
 
ON ECONOMY, BULLS CATCH BEARS
For the first time since the recession began in 1990, the number of Americans confident about the economy has caught up to those with negative views, according to a poll. A1
 
RENO PICKS SPECIAL COUNSEL
Attorney General Janet Reno has settled on Robert B. Fiske Jr., a New York lawyer and a Republican, to be the special counsel to investigate the Clintons' real estate investments, an Administration official said. A12
 
THREAT RECALLED IN BOBBITT TRIAL
A woman who once worked with Lorena Bobbitt testified that three years before Mrs. Bobbitt cut off her husband's penis, she threatened such action if her husband was ever unfaithful. A12
 
RETURN TO SENDER
Persuaded that a new stamp that was supposed to depict a black rodeo star actually portrayed his brother, the Postal Service stopped its presses and recalled all stamps already shipped to post offices. A12
 
INMAN FACED TOUGH QUESTIONING
While Bobby Ray Inman's confirmation as Defense Secretary was virtually certain, he faced potentially embarrassing questions during hearings about his role as a director of a corrupt arms company. A14
 
Inman didn't relish the Pentagon's bureaucratic battles. A14
 
Metro Digest B1
 
RECORD-BREAKING COLD
The sustained cold temperatures in the Northeast caused power shortages, disrupted school days, led to frozen railroad track switches and increased traffic accidents. From New Jersey south to Virginia, the cold caused fuel shortages at electric generating plants, leading authorities to impose planned blackouts and other power reductions. A1
 
2 APPROACHES TO TAXES
Both Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey want to make their states better places to do business, but despite striking many of the same chords, they are taking two sharply different approaches. Governor Whitman is planning steep cuts in personal income taxes and Governor Cuomo is pursuing a plan to ease business taxes directly. A1
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-12
 
Here sheep count, day and
night. C1
 
Talking with Bernice King: Shaping her own dream. C1
 
Antiques Row thrives anew on East 60th. C1
 
In a rush? Help is available,
for a fee. C2
 
Currents C3
 
House Proud C10
 
Parent & Child C11
 
Review/Fashion: Classically couture. C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
Another $10 million for the Guggenheim. C15
 
Rock royalty gather at Hall of Fame ceremonies. C15
 
Theater: "The Illusion." C15
 
Music: Radu Lupu, pianist. C15
 
Spotlight on women. C18
 
Dance: Donna Uchizono. C18
 
Books: Benjamin Cheever's new novel. C18
 
Sports B9-15
 
EX-HUSBAND OF HARDING ARRESTED
Federal authorities in Portland, Ore., arrested Jeff Gillooly, the former husband of the figure skater Tonya Harding, and said they had grounds to believe he has implicated her in planning the Jan. 6 assault on her figure-skating rival, Nancy Kerrigan. A1
 
Harding could be removed from team. B9
 
Column: Berkow on Tonya Harding. B9
 
Baseball: Realignment is approved. B9
 
No new commissioner, for now. B15
 
Basketball: Knicks stop Spurs. B9
 
Football: Marcus Allen endures. B9
 
Obituaries B8
 
Manuel Gomez Guerreiro, a retired judge of the Family Court.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Mr. Cuomo's election-year budget.
 
After Admiral Inman.
 
Prevention and punishment.
 
Topics: Fur piece.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Inman out.
 
Frank Rich: Tonya trashed.
 
Carolyn See: The city shuddered.
 
Ruben Martinez: One quake, two worlds.
 
Bridge C13
 
Chronicle B5
 
Crossword C13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ITALY (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); RECESSION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); DEVALUATION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (61%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



501 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: FIGURE SKATING;
Ex-Husband of Harding Arrested in Skating Attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 19

 BODY:
Federal authorities today arrested Jeff Gillooly, the former husband of Tonya Harding, and said they had grounds to believe he has implicated her in planning the Jan. 6 assault on her figure-skating rival, Nancy Kerrigan.
Mr. Gillooly, a 26-year-old unemployed former warehouse worker, was the fourth person to be arrested in the case but not necessarily the last. Norman W. Frink, a deputy district attorney, said that the investigation was continuing and more arrests were possible. 
 Before the authorities announced the arrest, Miss Harding, who is already in danger of losing her place on the Olympic team because of the spreading investigation, said that she had separated from Mr. Gillooly. Although they were divorced five months ago after more than three years of marriage, they had reconciled and were living together during the time the authorities say the attack was being planned.
 
First Account Given
 In a statement from her lawyer today after Mr. Gillooly surrendered, Miss Harding "categorically denied" any involvement in a conspiracy, echoing statements she has made throughout the investigation. Mr. Gillooly has also maintained his innocence.
An 11-page affidavit that accompanied the arrest warrant presents the first account by officials of how they say the attack was planned and executed. In it, officials say that one of the three men previously charged in the case, Shawn E. Eckardt, told Federal agents that Mr. Gillooly had implicated his former wife. Mr. Eckardt worked briefly as a bodyguard for Miss Harding.
According to Mr. Eckardt's account in the affidavit, "in furtherance of the scheme to injure Miss Kerrigan," Mr. Gillooly said that Miss Harding had twice telephoned a skating rink on Cape Cod, where the attack was initially intended, to learn when Miss Kerrigan was practicing. Telephone company records show four calls from the Gillooly-Harding residence to the Tony Kent Arena in South Dennis, Mass., where Miss Kerrigan practiced, the affidavit said.
 
Calls Reported to Rink
 A woman who identified herself as a manager at the rink but would not give her name said that some employees had received telephone calls from a woman asking when Miss Kerrigan would practice during the time in question, but, she said, "We have no idea who they came from."
Mr. Gillooly added, according to the Eckardt account, that Miss Harding was so concerned about the calls that she said that if she were ever asked about them, she would say she was trying to get Miss Kerrigan to sign a poster.
That was the only part of the affidavit concerning any link between Miss Harding, who met with investigators for more than 10 hours on Tuesday, and the plan for the attack, which was eventually carried out at the national championships in Detroit.
The affidavit reflects evidence collected by the Federal Bureau of Investigation from the confessions of Mr. Eckardt and two other men, a statement by Mr. Eckardt's mother, bank records, money transfers, telephone logs and hotel records. It includes no information or allegations from Miss Harding, whose interview on Tuesday concluded around 11:30 P.M.
"The warrant was signed before," Mr. Frink said.
Looking somber, Mr. Gillooly surrendered to the F.B.I. at 11:25 this morning. He was arraigned this afternoon in a state district court on a charge of criminal conspiracy to commit assault, a felony offense. By the time of his surrender, he had not been interviewed by investigators. Afterward, he was interviewed briefly "but was not forthcoming," said one investigator.
Asked if Mr. Gillooly was the "mastermind" of the group, Mr. Frink said, "If they were smart, we would not have caught them."
Shane M. Stant, who the authorities say has confessed to committing the assault on Miss Kerrigan and was arrested last week in Phoenix, was also arraigned here today on the same charge as Mr. Gillooly. Mr. Eckardt and the other man charged in the case, Derrick B. Smith, were arraigned last week.
Mr. Gillooly was released on $2,000 bail after his arraignment. Mr. Stant, who could not immediately raise the money, was being held until a hearing could determine whether the court would allow him to live with a relative under a form of house arrest.
The affidavit is the first document made public that outlines the Multnomah County case against those charged in the assault, which left Miss Kerrigan unable to perform in the national championships. Miss Harding went on to win the event and earn a place on the United States Olympic team.
The affidavit presented this version of the plan and the assault:
The plan to injure Miss Kerrigan was set in motion at a late December meeting at the home of Mr. Eckardt's parents in Portland attended by the four men eventually charged. Mr. Eckardt's parents, Agnes and Ron Eckardt, were at home and were aware of the meeting but did not participate, a contention Mrs. Eckardt confirmed in her interview with a Federal agent.
At the meeting, the four men discussed attacking Miss Kerrigan's right knee. "This was decided in Oregon," the document said, "because as it was explained to Stant, by Gillooly, this was Kerrigan's landing leg, and that by injuring it, she would be unable to compete."
It was agreed at the meeting that Mr. Stant and Mr. Smith would carry out the assault for $6,500, at Miss Kerrigan's training rink on Cape Cod. But after five days in the area, spending time in two hotels, Mr. Stant was unable to find an opportunity to attack. With the national championships approaching, he left Massachusetts by bus and arrived in the Detroit area on Jan. 4, checking into a Romulus, Mich., hotel.
Money first changed hands on Dec. 27, when Mr. Gillooly gave Mr. Eckardt $2,000 in cash, and Mr. Eckardt gave the money to Mr. Smith. Mr Eckardt wired another $750 to Mr. Smith in Phoenix on Jan. 4, after which Mr. Smith flew to Detroit to meet Mr. Stant in Romulus. On Jan. 6, Mr. Gillooly gave Mr. Eckardt another $1,300, which Mr. Eckardt wired to Mr. Smith.
Once together in Detroit, Mr. Stant and Mr. Smith "did a reconnaissance mission" at Cobo Hall, where figure- skating competitors were practicing and found a suitable place for the attack.
As planned, Mr. Stant hit Miss Kerrigan on her right knee with a collapsible police baton, then ran for a Plexiglas door, which he found locked. "Stant had to break through the door using his head as a ram," the report said.
Then, running from the arena to "an awaiting rental car, which was driven by Smith," they left the area and flew back to Phoenix.
On Jan. 10, Mr. Eckardt performed his only security work for Miss Harding, meeting her plane at the airport in Portland upon her return from a triumphant competition in Detroit. He escorted her and Mr. Gillooly through a crowd of adoring fans at the Portland airport.
But later that night, the affidavit said, Mr. Eckardt and Mr. Gillooly "spent several hours together making up an alibi."
"They were concerned," it continued, "that they had left both a paper trail, in terms of wiring money and telephone calls, and had to come up with an alibi" for the presence of Mr. Stant and Mr. Smith in Detroit. They decided they would say that Mr. Eckardt and Mr. Smith, the recipient of each money transfer, were in the process of creating a security company for ice skaters. "This would also explain all the telephone calls between them," the report said.
The report, which was compiled by James McNelly, a deputy for the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office, includes wire transfer records that corroborated accounts given to investigators by Mr. Eckardt, Mr. Smith and Mr. Stant.
The report also discusses telephone logs that show calls were made from the Gillooly-Harding residence to the Massachusetts rink and a call to the same number from a hotel room in Yarmouth, Mass., that records indicate Mr. Stant had rented, and from Mr. Stant's hotel room in Romulus to the Gillooly-Harding residence.
The only apparent contradictions in the affadivit are recollections of when the initial meeting took place to plan the attack. Mr. Smith told investigators it occurred on Dec. 26. Mr. Eckardt said it was on Dec. 27. Mr. Stant remembered it as Dec. 29.
While none of the lawyers representing the defendants have spoken in any detail publicly, Ronald H. Hoevet, who is representing Mr. Gillooly, has said that he would attack the credibility of Mr. Eckardt, who is a self-described expert in counter-terrorism and espionage.
Mr. Hoevet, who appeared with his client before Judge Donald H. Londer at the arraignment, declined to speak to reporters and did not return a telephone message left for him.
Nor did Robert C. Weaver Jr., the lawyer representing Miss Harding. He had accompanied her throughout the questioning on Tuesday and spoke briefly afterward, apologizing for insisting that Miss Harding would have nothing to say for the time being.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeff Gillooly after he surrendered. (pg. A1); Jeff Gillooly, seated at right, and Shane M. Stant, standing at right, await their arraignment with their lawyers. (pg. B12) (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; ASSAULTS; FIGURE SKATING WINTER SPORTS (93%); ICE SKATING (93%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (74%); LAWYERS (73%); EVIDENCE (72%); OLYMPICS (70%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; GILLOOLY, JEFF; HARDING, TONYA; KERRIGAN, NANCY; ECKARDT, SHAWN ERIC; STANT, SHANE NANCY KERRIGAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



502 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Increasing Confidence In Economy, and in the President

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

 BODY:
For the first time since the onset of the recession in mid-1990, the number of Americans expressing confidence in the economy has caught up to those with negative views about it, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. The shift has helped restore President Clinton's public approval rating to the higher level he enjoyed when he first took office.
After one year of Mr. Clinton's Presidency, 54 percent of the public approve of the way he is handling his job, a striking rebound from last summer, when Americans were more critical of him than they had been of any new President since World War II. 
 Now Mr. Clinton's popularity compares favorably to his post-Watergate predecessors on their first anniversaries in office. Ronald Reagan had a 49 percent approval rating at this stage, while Jimmy Carter had 51 percent. George Bush was at 76 percent, but that was due in part to the public's rallying behind him after the American invasion of Panama, and the collapse of Communism.
 
Seen as Untested in Crisis
 The nationwide telephone poll was taken Saturday through Monday and was no doubt influenced by the fact that it coincided with the final days of Mr. Clinton's European trip. The President's higher marks overall are owed partly to the approval by 50 percent of the way he is handling foreign policy, up from 38 percent in November.
While 66 percent of the respondents approved of Mr. Clinton's posture toward Russia, it is clear that many Americans do not believe that he has been tested on foreign matters. Only 39 percent expressed confidence in his ability to deal wisely with a difficult international crisis, while 54 percent said they were uneasy about his approach.
More Americans are concerned about the economy at home than about international affairs, and 42 percent approve of the way Mr. Clinton is handling the economy, reflecting a slow but steady climb from 38 percent in November and 34 percent in September.
After years in which most people were downbeat about the economy, the poll found that 50 percent viewed the economy as either very good or fairly good, while 49 percent said it was either very bad or fairly bad. The one-point difference is not significant; the poll, of 1,146 adults, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
There were several other signs of the public's more positive economic mood: Fifty percent said now was a good time for most people to buy a new car, up from 37 percent just before Mr. Clinton took office. Seventy-six percent said for most people it was a good time to buy a house, up from 61 percent. There has been a marked decline in the number of Americans who say they believe someone in their family will be out of work and looking for a job in the next year; those fears have receded to 21 percent, from 40 percent a year ago.
 
Economy 'Getting Better'
 And in a particularly optimistic indicator, 31 percent said the economy was "getting better," sharply up from 19 percent in November and 14 percent in September.
While any President benefits from an improved economy or the perception of one, that may be especially true for Mr. Clinton since the central theme of his campaign was a promise to fix the economy. More than anything else, many analysts attributed President Bush's defeat in 1992 to a sour economy. If the more optimistic trend continues, it could be a significant boost not only for Mr. Clinton but also for the Democratic members of Congress who are struggling to keep their seats this year; usually the party in power suffers losses in off-year elections.
Although Mr. Clinton has climbed back eight percentage points in overall approval since November -- and is virtually even with the 55 percent approval rating he registered in March, his highest level since taking office -- he is by no means a widely popular President. He has not made great inroads beyond the 46 percent of Americans who voted for him, and those who supported Ross Perot are evenly split in their opinion of Mr. Clinton.
Frank Evanouskas, a respondent from North Brunswick, N.J., who voted for Mr. Perot, said that he averted personal economic peril himself and that Mr. Clinton deserved credit for trying. "I'm one of the people who got laid off last year and found another job in two weeks," Mr. Evanouskas, 47, a computer operator, said in a follow-up interview. "You can't blame Clinton for everything -- it's one year into his Administration. He seems to be trying to get the job done."
The questions raised about Mr. Clinton's involvement in real estate investments in the 1980's, when he was Governor of Arkansas, have not had much effect on people's views of his performance. Bowing to Congressional pressure, President Clinton last week asked Attorney General Janet Reno to appoint a special counsel to investigate accusations that money may have been improperly diverted to the Whitewater Development Company by the Clintons' partner, James B. McDougal, from an Arkansas savings and loan association he owned. The Clintons have denied doing anything wrong.
Yet the matter has the potential to harm his image. Six of 10 Americans said that in answers to recent questions about his financial dealings, Mr. Clinton was mostly telling the truth but also hiding something. Another 14 percent said he was mostly lying. Of those who saw hiding or lying, most said the matter was something the public needed to know about.
By contrast, in earlier polls dealing with the President's private life, most people who saw hiding or lying said they were matters the public did not need to know about.
The Whitewater accusations have not affected Mr. Clinton's image, with 26 percent saying Mr. Clinton has less honesty and integrity than most other President they know about. The matter may be less favorable for Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was also involved in the Whitewater deal; 39 percent of registered voters say they held a favorable opinion of her, which is down from 47 percent in November. In a sign of the uncertainty, most of the shift was to the "don't know" category rather than the "unfavorable" category.
 
High Marks on Health Care
 A majority of Americans gave Mr. Clinton high marks for his handling of health care and the economy, and gave him lower marks on issues like reducing the deficit, improving the environment, creating jobs, reducing crime and overhauling the welfare system. Forty-three percent said Mr. Clinton had made progress in getting health insurance for all Americans; 31 percent said he had made progress in significantly improving the economy.
Fifty-eight percent said Mr. Clinton cared about the needs and problems of people like them. Many Americans also had high expectations for the economy and health care for the rest of Mr. Clinton's term. Sixty-seven percent said that by the end of Mr. Clinton's four-year term, they expected the economy to be good, while 66 percent said they expected more Americans to be covered by health insurance.
Far fewer, 40 percent, said they expected the welfare system to be significantly changed in the next three years, while only 29 percent said they expected crime to be reduced. And few had faith in the Clinton campaign promise that he would cut taxes on the middle class: only 15 percent said they expected taxes on the middle class to have been reduced in the next three years.
Vice President Al Gore, who has had a higher profile in recent months, was viewed favorably by 42 percent, with 15 percent holding an unfavorable view of him. But nearly half of the public was undecided or said they did not know enough about the Vice President to respond.
Though Mr. Clinton campaigned as a "new Democrat," more Americans still view him as liberal than moderate, 44 percent to 32 percent.
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Saturday through Monday with 1,146 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, for blacks it is plus or minus nine percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey may introduce other sources of error. For instance, variations in question wording or the order of questions can lead to somewhat different results.
 
Graphs: Shows the percentage holding good and bad views of the economy. (Source: Polls by The New York Times and CBS News) (pg. A1); "The New York Times/CBS News Poll" shows poll results of expectations of Clinton, and the uncertainty over Whitewater. (Based on telephone interviews with 1,146 adults nationwide interviewed Jan. 15-17.) (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); POLITICS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



503 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Whitman and Cuomo Seek to Cut Different Taxes for Same Reasons

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
In trying to make their states better places to do business, Mario M. Cuomo, the long-time Governor of New York, and Christine Todd Whitman, the new Governor of New Jersey, may be talking the same talk but they're not walking the same walk.
While the rhetoric from both governors is remarkably similar, New York and New Jersey are emerging as tests of two strikingly different approaches to stimulating economic growth. With the Northeast just beginning to shake off a long and painful recession, Governor Whitman is placing her bets on sharp cuts in personal income taxes. By contrast, Governor Cuomo is pursuing his plan to ease business taxes directly.
 
'An Important Factor'
 "There is growing evidence that higher state and local taxes are an important factor in discouraging business," said James R. Hines, a professor of public policy at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. But the jury is still out, Mr. Hines added, on "whether personal or business taxes have a more powerful effect." 
 Many other factors besides state tax burdens, of course, will affect the future prosperity of the regional economy. Yet governors have to deal with things they can influence. And New York and New Jersey, like Connecticut and Massachusetts before them, are relying on new efforts to cut taxes and ease regulations in hopes of shedding their images as hostile to business and stemming the loss of companies and jobs to other parts of the country.
"It is a much more competitive environment," said Steven Gold, director of the Center for the Study of States in Albany. "New York and New Jersey have suffered among the most severe job losses in the nation. What you are seeing is that both states now recognize they need to make themselves appear much more friendly to business."
In appealing to business, Mr. Cuomo and Mrs. Whitman are striking many of the same chords.
"We will be competitive. No more losing our employers to job raids by low-tax states," Governor Whitman said in her inauguration speech on Tuesday. "New Jersey is open for business."
Governor Cuomo has used the same theme. "Here's the message. New York State believes in business," he said recently in his State of the State speech. "We need you; we want you."
The contrast between Governor Cuomo's proposals and Governor Whitman's plan reflects more than political differences between Democrats and Republicans. It also reflects fundamentally different premises about what it takes to generate more jobs and higher incomes.
Advocates of income tax cuts tend to believe that risk-taking by individual entrepreneurs and innovations by new businesses are the underlying sources of economic growth. Mrs. Whitman is counting on a pocketbook appeal to individuals who might be tempted to start a business. To retain existing New Jersey companies, she is also aiming at upper-income executives who may be tempted by their own tax picture when they decide where to locate their firms' operations.
"The personal income tax is the most destructive tax around," said Malcolm S. Forbes Jr., president of Forbes magazine and an informal adviser to Governor Whitman. "Just take a look at Pennsylvania, where the business tax is worse than New Jersey's and probably as bad as New York's. But companies are moving there anyway and Pennsylvania is doing better than we are. Why? Because its top income tax rate is 2.8 percent."
Michael Boskin, chief economic adviser to President George Bush, said cutting personal taxes not only "provides more income to New Jersey residents, it also makes it easier to attract employees by easing the burden of compensation."
By contrast, many other analysts see the economy as being driven more by the profit-and-loss calculations of thousands upon thousands of different companies. They consider income tax cuts a scattershot solution to the problem of lagging economic growth and contend that state governments will receive the greatest payoff by offering tax incentives to home-grown businesses.
"The impact of personal tax cuts is too dilute," said Charles Bartsch, an economic development expert at the Northeast-Midwest Institute, a Washington-based research organization sponsored by Congressional representatives from the regions. "You give people a few hundred dollars in tax savings and all they may do is buy a new VCR -- which comes from overseas anyway."
Peter Eisinger, director of the LaFollette Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, argues that cutting taxes is a very blunt instrument. "You also have to worry about the impact on public services that business values highly," he said. "It is much more sensible to send a good signal by getting rid of those taxes and regulations that are a hassle for business, without cutting very deeply into your revenue base."
Mr. Cuomo is offering a number of relatively small tax cuts for businesses together with a more generous tax credit for the working poor, which represents a more cautious approach. Mrs. Whitman is taking the larger gamble that she can reduce income taxes by 30 percent without seriously impairing state and local services.
"Whitman is much more ambitious than Cuomo in the scale of her tax-cutting," said Mr. Gold of the state study center.
In general terms, the burden of state taxation in New York and New Jersey is roughly similar. Taking all state tax collections into account, a recent study by the Washington-based Tax Foundation found that the average household in New York pays $4,750 a year compared with $4,638 in New Jersey.
But that comparison omits local income and property taxes. It also masks wide variations in the distribution of state taxes. New York, for example, collects nearly 50 percent of state revenues from the individual income tax, while New Jersey relies on individual income taxes for just 32.7 percent of state tax collections.
Some analysts warn that both New York and New Jersey, in focusing so much recent attention on competing with other states through lower taxes, may be falling into a trap.
"You can build a strategy around being a cheaper place to do business -- like Arizona, Alabama and South Carolina -- or you can design an approach to be a more productive place to do business," said Paul Brace, a professor at Florida State University and author of a recent book on the subject, "State Government and Economic Performance" (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1993). "With places like Malaysia and Mexico as your competitors, though, going the cheaper route may prove to be a dead end."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); TRENDS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



504 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Buying Old Russian Subs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Jan. 20

 BODY:
North Korea has quietly begun purchasing 40 aging attack submarines from Russia's Pacific Fleet through a small Japanese trading company, according to Japanese, South Korean and American officials tracking the movements of the subs through the North Pacific.
Military and intelligence experts have offered conflicting explanations for why North Korea would want leftover hulks of the Russian Navy. Some experts raised the possibility that North Korea could try to restore the submarines to bolster its fleet, or cannibalize them for spare parts; Russian officials insist that the vessels are being sold to the Communist Government of President Kim Il Sung solely for use as scrap metal. 
 Skeptical about the Russians' explanation, the Clinton Administration has pressed the Russian Embassy in Washington for more details.
 
Leaks in Sanctions
 The deal suggests the difficulties the Clinton Administration would face in enforcing the economic sanctions it has threatened against North Korea because of its nuclear program, when private companies are busily trading with North Korea's huge military force. Japanese officials said today that they had no legal means to block the transaction.
In an interview on Wednesday, the president of the Japanese company acting as the intermediary in the deal, Toen Trading Company, said the submarines were being towed intact from Russian naval bases in Vladivostok to the nearby North Korean port of Najin, a major naval base on the Sea of Japan.
"The reality is that we are uncertain what is happening to the submarines after they reach North Korea," a senior Japanese intelligence official said Wednesday. "Perhaps it is an unusual way to obtain scrap metal."
Most of the submarines being shipped to North Korea are 20- to 30-year-old diesel models of questionable seaworthiness. Most are part of the class known by the NATO code-name Foxtrot, which can fire up to 21 torpedoes or be used to lay mines.
 
Useful for Spare Parts
 In recent years, the Foxtrot class subs have been steadily withdrawn from front-line service in the Russian fleet. But even if they could not be restored to service, they could be used as sources for spare parts to keep other submarines operating.
Norman Polmar, an expert on naval issues in Virginia, estimates that, because of mechanical problems, only half the current North Korean submarine fleet can be operated, and says that the North Koreans are probably buying the Russian vessels to obtain spare parts.
He said the parts from the old subs could be most useful on the handful of old Russian-made subs in the North Korea arsenal. It is less clear that the parts could be used on the old Chinese-made subs that make up the bulk of the North Korean fleet, he said.
 
North Korean Submarine Force
 The North Koreans currently own 24 submarines, mostly smaller Chinese-made models. They have also built 48 "midget submarines" designed to slip undetected into South Korean ports in the event of renewed hostilities in the Korean Peninsula.
The number of submarines involved in the transaction -- four times the number first reported from Russia a week ago -- has clearly taken Japanese and South Korean officials aback.
"Obviously, we are paying a lot of attention to this," a senior South Korean official said Wednesday night. But until South Korea receives a fuller explanation from Russia, which only resumed diplomatic relations with Seoul two years ago, "we won't be unduly alarmed," he said.
In a dispatch from Moscow, Reuters said the Russian Navy press center acknowledged that a deal had been signed with a Japanese company in November to sell 12 decommissioned Russian submarines that had been built between 1961 and 1968.
"These former vessels at the present time, after being disarmed, have been brought to a state that precludes their restoration for military purposes," the navy said in a statement.
 
U.S. Monitoring Deal
 One senior United States Navy official said that American intelligence was closely monitoring the transaction and that it had no basis to dispute the Russian Government's explanation that the subs are being sold for scrap.
The Navy official said the Russians had told the United States that the subs would be "demilitarized," that is, stripped of their weapons systems, before being delivered.
But the trading company executive who handled the sale, Ariyoshi Shibata, a Japanese citizen of Korean descent, said: "Everything is left as it is. Nothing is removed."
He said his North Korean partners, whom he declined to identify, had no intention of adding the subs to the North Korean fleet, however, and were already cutting them up for scrap.
At times, it seems as if North Korea runs on leftover goods from Russia and China. Many of its commercial aircraft are former Aeroflot planes, and most of its trucks and ships are retired models of its former ally.
The revelation comes as North Korea is engaged in a tense, painfully slow dialogue with the United States and the International Atomic Energy Agency over inspection of its nuclear program.
 
A Commercial Connection
 Russia has been described as consistently helpful to the United States in its dealings with the isolated North Korean Government. But the transaction, which may be valued at upwards of $8 million, suggests that there is still a close commercial connection between the Russian and North Korean militaries, one that many in Asia believe is not regulated by Moscow.
"We think these guys in the Russian Pacific Fleet are free-lancing," an American official tracking the submarine sales said today.
The deal marks the second time in recent months that Russian deals with the North Korean military have come to light. Last August a civilian Russian company flew truck chassis for mobile Scud missile launchers from North Korea to Damascus, Syria, despite quiet protests from the Clinton Administration. There were reports last year that Russian military engineers had been hired by North Korea to improve its ballistic missile program but that they were stopped in Moscow just before their plane left for Pyongyang.
 
Role of Japanese Company
 It is unclear why a Japanese trading company played the intermediary role in the deal, but some Japanese officials suggested today that for political reasons, Russia did not want to be seen dealing directly with the North. Another official suggested that the Japanese were brought in to guarantee that the Russians would be paid even if North Korea, which has defaulted on many of its international debts, failed to come up with the money.
Mr. Shibata, speaking in Japanese, said that like many Korean-Japanese, he travels to North Korea about 10 times a year on business. For two years, he said, he has been buying old locomotives in Russia that could be cut up in North Korea for scrap metal. "Recently it has been more difficult to obtain those," he said, "so we are shifting to submarines and warships."
He said the first submarine was shipped to North Korea last October and that nine more have gone since.
He said that on one recent trip he saw at least one submarine being dismantled at Najin. "The equipment was run down," he said. "I'm not even sure the screw could turn."

GRAPHIC: Map of Korea showing location of Najin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: TOEN TRADING CO

ORGANIZATION: TOEN TRADING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; SUBMARINES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MARINE SHIPPING (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); DANCE EDUCATION (68%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



505 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE: The President;
Clinton Visits Quake Area And Feels the Earth Rumble

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 19

 BODY:
President Clinton rode out a strong aftershock here today and pronounced the damage from Monday's earthquake "amazing." He promised "unusual and unprecedented" steps to help the region recover after Gov. Pete Wilson told him the disaster might be one of the most expensive in American history.
Gazing at a collapsed section of the Simi Valley Freeway, a few miles from the epicenter of the earthquake, the President said, "There's a difference in seeing this, actually standing here and looking at it." 
 As he toured neighborhoods in the San Fernando Valley, where the earthquake was centered, the ground shook under his feet from an aftershock that registered 5.5 on the Richter scale of ground motion.
On his ninth visit to this politically crucial state since his election as President, Mr. Clinton brought millions of dollars in immediate assistance and promised more long-term aid. The Small Business Administration will release about $240 million in low-interest loans, he said, and the Department of Transportation will make $45 million available to support immediate repairs and removal of debris.
In addition, Richard Krimm, the associate director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said his department might spend as much as $500 million on earthquake recovery.
In a letter to the President that was made public today, Governor Wilson said a computer model estimated that the earthquake had caused $15 billion to $30 billion in damages. Hurricane Andrew, which destroyed a swath of South Florida and Louisiana in 1992, caused $30 billion in damage; the earthquake that struck the San Francisco area in 1989 caused about $7 billion in damage.
Most state and local agencies were still assessing the destruction caused by Monday's earthquake, and few estimates were available on actual costs. Damage continued to mount as hundreds of aftershocks shook Los Angeles.
Throughout the city today, residents removed clothing and furniture from damaged apartments and homes before building inspectors condemned their homes.
The earthquake on Monday was measured at 6.6 on the Richter scale. Damage and loss of life, which the authorities have so far placed at 46, were far less than they might have been because it struck at 4:31 A.M. on a holiday, when few people were on the roads or at work.
Although there are still few dollar assessments, officials described widespread destruction to roads and highways, aqueducts and water purification plants, homes, schools and office buildings, as well as potential economic losses in damaged businesses, tourism and the costs of a grotesquely prolonged commute.
Although many of the area's residents continued to stay home from work and school today, the commute to Los Angeles already began to take on tragicomic proportions as trips that usually take 45 minutes stretched toward three hours.
In his letter to the President, Governor Wilson noted that the earthquake was the latest in a series of calamities that had pummeled a region that continues to suffer a severe recession.
"On the heels of this economic disaster have now come three major disasters in the course of the last 20 months in the Los Angeles area alone," he wrote. "Following the civil unrest of 1992, the winter storms of 1993 and the most recent firestorms of a few months ago, it is clear that neither this area nor the state can be asked to bear the burden of recovery alone."
He asked the Federal Government to cover 100 percent of recovery costs, as it did after Hurricane Andrew and Hurricane Iniki, which caused $7.7 in damage on the Hawaiian island of Kauai in 1992.
The President said Congress would need to waive a requirement for matching financing by local governments but that "I think you have a very strong case for a waiver."
Wearing an open-necked blue shirt with the sleeves rolled up in the relentlessly balmy weather, Mr. Clinton gaped at the sight of a collapsed overpass on the Simi Valley Freeway in the San Fernando Valley.
Large, noisy wrecking machines chewed at the broken concrete and iron bars around him, carting away the rubble in the first stages of an urgent highway-repair program that officials said they hoped to complete before the end of the year at a cost of about $100 million.
The President's motorcade took him past miles of small buildings that had suffered seemingly undramatic damage that rendered many of them uninhabitable, and past residents who now camp outside their homes because of the damage or because of their fear of aftershocks.
Officials here continued to add up the effects of the earthquake, and the death toll rose to 46. Most of those added to the list were victims of heart attacks. Hospitals reported that more than 4,200 people had been injured.
The Red Cross said about 4,000 buildings were heavily damaged or destroyed, and city officials estimated that 15,000 people had lost their homes, including 4,700 who continued to stay in 24 government shelters.
Utilities had mostly been restored two days after the earthquake, but 52,000 people still had no electrical power, 40,000 homes and businesses had no water and about 35,000 customers were without natural gas.
 
Hundreds of Damaged Schools
 At least 200 public schools in Los Angeles were damaged, including 100 that were found to be unsafe for students, said Shel Erlich, a spokesman for the district. He said initial estimates of damage to the school system ranged from $500 million to $700 million. The closings affected about 600,000 elementary and high school students, he said.
With damage still being assessed, the Los Angeles area was coming to the realization that it would be living with the effects of the earthquake for months and even years to come.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, accompanied by Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles, left, and Department of Transportation workers, surveying a crater on Balboa Avenue in the San Fernando Valley. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FERNANDO VALLEY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; FEDERAL AID (US) EARTHQUAKES (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); DAMAGES (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); HURRICANES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (64%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (62%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%); HISTORY (57%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WILSON, PETE (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



506 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE: The Victims;
The Unthinkable Occurs: Homelessness

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Elizabeth Thomas has watched the homeless walk the streets of this city, carrying everything they own in a plastic bag. Never did she think she would be among them.
But before dawn on Monday the ground shook beneath the building she called home. Cracks filled the walls of her apartment in Tarzana, five miles south of the Northridge area of the San Fernando Valley, where the quake was centered. Her building slid off its foundation. And she knew that she and her four children could no longer stay there. 
 So today Ms. Thomas sat at a Red Cross shelter in Canoga Park, about five miles northeast of Tarzana, holding a plastic bag filled with everything she has left, and contemplated the tricks that life plays. How in a matter of minutes the unthinkable -- being homeless -- had happened. And how she does not know what to do, or where to turn, to make it better.
 
'I Need a Place to Live'
 "I live paycheck to paycheck," said Ms. Thomas, an insurance underwriter. "We don't have money in the bank. We are homeless. And I need a place to live."
It has been more than two days since the quake, which measured 6.6 on the Richter scale of ground motion, jolted Los Angeles, and this city is struggling to cope with the devastation. The cleanup has begun, and the President has come to survey the damage and talk to quake refugees. But still, thousands of people have no safe place they can call home.
The American Red Cross estimates that 4,700 people spent Tuesday night in the organization's shelters. City and state officials believe, however, that there may be many more who are in need of housing but do not know where to go, or are too frightened to sleep indoors.
Workers plan to distribute 100,000 fliers in parks and gathering places throughout the Los Angeles area to tell people of available shelters, said Barbara Wilks, a spokeswoman for the Red Cross.
In the meantime, hundreds of people continue to light charcoal fires and sleep in parks, saying they prefer the night sky to a roof that might collapse the next time the earth moves. Others have gone to the shelters, most of them situated in school gymnasiums, churches and recreation centers in the San Fernando Valley.
 
Relying on Strangers
 The newly homeless often have just the clothes on their backs. These are people used to taking care of themselves. Now, they say, they are forced to rely on the kindness of strangers. For many, that is difficult to do.
"I've never asked the Government for a penny," said Juanita E. Casco, who with her family spent the first two nights after the quake sleeping in her building's parking lot. "We've always worked very hard. But I'm hoping now that they can help us."
Until that happens, the Cascos and many others wait. They sleep on cots in crowded gymnasiums, dial phones that often go unanswered, and pray that they will be able to return to work soon. They share showers and sleeping space with people they do not know and eat meals when they are served, not when they want them. And they wait anxiously for word that never seems to come on how they can rebuild and get their lives back to normal.
"Nobody is helping us," said Maria Dominguez, who has been staying with her husband and two children at the Canoga Park shelter. "How are we going to support ourselves? How are we going to get food, pay the rent?"
Mrs. Dominguez said she must strike an emotional balance, reassuring her 7-year-old son that everything will be all right, when she herself is not so sure.
 
'The Earth Might Eat Me'
 "When he goes to the bathroom he says, 'Mommy, stay here, because the earth might eat me,' " Mrs. Dominguez said. "I tell him nothing is going to happen to us. I tell him good things so he can feel a little bit secure. But I feel like the world is going to end."
Her husband, Moses, a factory worker, has spent the two days trying to find out how to get financial assistance for his family. "I called the fire department," he said. "I called 911. But nobody answers."
Eileen Vasquez has also been seeking help. She and her family of five have been unable to reach the manager of the Chatsworth building where they live to find out if the structure is safe. So, until they can be reassured, they sleep at a shelter.
There is little money, Mrs. Vasquez said. The family has already paid this month's rent for an apartment they may not be able to live in. Her husband is unemployed. And Mrs. Vasquez said she needs to get to a laundromat soon to wash her children's clothes.
 
Rental Assistance Funds
 "I feel desperation because I don't know what the next step is going to be," said Mrs. Vasquez, a legal secretary. "I look in the newspapers and all the articles deal with homeowners. We're not homeowners. What do people do who live in apartments? What do we do, just stay in shelters?"
Officials in the Federal Emergency Management Agency announced today that $100 million in rental assistance would be earmarked for people left homeless by the quake. Those in need will be able to apply for assistance and receive rental vouchers. The Department of Housing and Urban Development will pay 30 percent of their rent, a FEMA official said.
The quake and its aftermath has been a humbling experience for many of the displaced, even for Jason Brooks, a 9-year-old boy who said he thought he would always have a roof over his head.
Jason said the ground rocked him to sleep Monday night as he and his mother slept in a park near their apartment in the Van Nuys section of Los Angeles, adjacent to Northridge. The next day he, his mother and grandmother checked into a shelter.
"I thought we'd always be inside, and safe," Jason said, taking a break from the cartoons he and other children watched on a borrowed television set. "My mom helps this homeless guy, and we always wanted to know what it feels like. He's always cold and asking for food. Now, we know."
 
Prayers and Crashing Crystal
 Though many people could not or would not return to their damaged homes to stay, some have tried to retrieve what they could amid the debris.
Jason's mother, Ligia Ortega-Brooks, returned to the family's apartment soon after daylight broke on the morning of the earthquake. While sifting through the debris, she said, she remembered hearing her 63-year-old mother praying in the darkness as her precious crystal crashed to the floor.
"I've worked for everything I've had, by myself, since I was 12 years old," said Ms. Ortega-Brooks. "I'm a survivor. But it made me feel bad that now I've got to start all over again."
The earthquake also shattered something far more fragile, the newly homeless said. With their homes went their peace of mind, their sense of place and peace.
"I feel desperate," Mrs. Casco said. "I feel like I have no hands or feet."
Since the quake, she said, she sleeps with her two daughters cradled in her arms. And even when the local schools reopen, Mrs. Casco said she doubts that she will let her children return. At least not until her nerves have calmed, and the ground has stopped rumbling from aftershocks.
Losing her home has put life into perspective, she said. "Sunday night I went to bed and thought about what I was going to do the next day," Mrs. Casco said. "Now I know it's not what you want to do -- it's what God decides."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man sleeping in his bed, which he moved out of his apartment on Reseda Boulevard in Northridge. (Reuters); Maria Corona-Diaz reading as she stayed in a shelter with her family at Van Nuys High School. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); A girl carried a precious commodity, fresh water, from an emergency supply distribution site in Van Nuys. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN RED CROSS AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOUISIANA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES EARTHQUAKES (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); REFUGEES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (52%); 

PERSON: JONES, CHARISSE

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



507 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

METRO DIGEST
 
BITTER COLD DISRUPTS POWER AND TRAVEL
Record-breaking cold imposed an icy disorder on New York and the rest of the East Coast, from power shortages to disrupted school days, from frozen railroad track switches to scuttled dinner plans. The temperature was 2 degrees below 0 in Central Park at 6 A.M., the lowest ever recorded for the date, and rose to 10 degrees later in the day, making it one of the coldest days in the last half-century. A1.
 
Electric companies cut service to millions of people from New Jersey to Virginia for up to an hour because the cold weather had created a high demand for power. B6. 
 
Residents of the New York region looked for ways to cope with the cold. B6.
 
The Winter of '94 is just a few weeks old, but the people of Kentucky will no doubt remember it for a long time. B7.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
SUIT IS FILED OVER SCHOOL REPAIRS
Frustrated by the telltale signs of decades of neglect in public schools, from leaky roofs to cracked walls and broken toilets, some teachers and parents did what any New Yorker might do -- they sued the landlord. B3.
 
CORTINES TALKS OF SCHOOL TAKEOVERS
Schools Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines said that in a series of recent surprise visits to some of the city's most troubled schools he has discovered stunning educational mismanagement, including teachers without teaching plans and libraries without books. B3.
 
GIULIANI GIVEN A LIST OF CONCERNS
Responding to criticism that he had not reached out sufficiently to minority officials, Mayor Giuliani met with black and Hispanic members of the City Council in discussions that the Mayor and Council members called productive. B4.
 
Defense lawyers in the World Trade Center bombing trial cross-examined a Government specialist on telephone records. B3.
 
One man was killed and two others were in stable condition after a shooting in a cab-leasing business in Manhattan, the police said. B4.
 
REGION
 
TWO APPROACHES TO TAX CUTS
In trying to make their states better places to do business, Mario M. Cuomo, the longtime Governor of New York, and Christine Todd Whitman, the new Governor of New Jersey, may be talking the same talk but they are not walking the same walk. With the Northeast just beginning to shake off a long recession, Governor Whitman is placing her bets on sharp cuts in personal income taxes. By contrast, Governor Cuomo is pursuing his plan to ease business taxes directly. A1.
 
WHITMAN SPRINGS A BOLD, RISKY SURPRISE
In her first hours in office, Governor Whitman used a surprise announcement about a retroactive tax cut and two executive orders to build a political cushion against some of the blows that landed on her during the governor's race. B5.
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
Chronicle B5

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Sales of Existing Homes" tracks sales of existing homes in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and New England, at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, during 1992 and 1993. (Source: National Association of Realtors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (87%); MAYORS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (85%); CITIES (79%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LAWYERS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (63%); BOMBINGS (62%); INCOME TAX (61%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



508 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Ruble Sinks Further in a Whirl of Political Rumors

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Negotiations over a new Russian Government continued in secret today, aggravating confusion and panic over the value of the ruble, which plunged another 6.5 percent in record trading, to a low of 1,607 to the dollar.
In a brief report this evening, Interfax news agency said Finance Minister Boris G. Fyodorov, who has come to symbolize the future of economic reform, was reappointed Finance Minister in a partial agreement between President Boris N. Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin. 
 But the report left unanswered the key question of whether Mr. Fyodorov will also be named a Deputy Prime Minister, and an aide said Mr. Fyodorov himself remains unsure about the validity of the report, which seemed intended to quiet panic over the future of Russia's reforms.
 
'How Poor We've Become!'
 Ordinary Russians waited in long lines on a bitterly cold day to try to turn their increasingly fragile rubles -- whose value has fallen more than 25 percent this month and almost 15 percent this week -- into more stable dollars. The drop has been even more extreme in private exchange booths, where dollars, when they are available, cost up to 1,950 rubles.
"It's so shameful to see how far my country has sunk," said Tatyana A. Golubentseva, 39, a teacher who had come to an exchange booth in the Izvestia building on Tverskaya Street. "Soon the rate will be 5,000, no doubt. How poor we've become!"
In most Western countries, a run on the currency is met by strong intervention by the Central Bank, to buy currency and especially to raise interest rates. Here the Central Bank chairman, Viktor V. Gerashchenko, has long resisted the idea of pushing interest rates higher than the rate of inflation.
But so far this month, the Central Bank has spent up to $1 billion of its $4.5 billion in hard-currency reserves to keep the ruble from collapsing even faster in the general anxiety.
 
Personalizing Policy
 Since the resignation on Sunday of Yegor T. Gaidar, the architect of Russia's economic reforms, the President and the Prime Minister have been negotiating the make-up of a new Government, which was supposed to have been announced on Monday.
Their main difficulty is the role of the 35-year-old Finance Minister, who has become personalized in the West as the symbol of market reforms. A combative, sometimes arrogant infighter who believes deeply in stabilization and lower inflation as the keys to progress, Mr. Fyodorov has been bargaining to stay in the Government with enough power to make a difference.
As best he can, he has been using the expectations of the West and its fiduciary agent, the International Monetary Fund, that economic reform will continue and even deepen, as Mr. Yeltsin promised President Clinton at their talks here last week.
 
'Chirpiness' May Erode
 American officials have played down Mr. Gaidar's resignation as an inevitable result of his perceived rebuff at the polls Dec. 12: even though his party won the largest number of seats in the lower house, there was a substantial vote of protest against his policies.
But the Washington attitude, described by one Western diplomat as "resolute chirpiness," is unlikely to survive a departure by Mr. Fyodorov.
The result has been a drama played out in secret, though not without a calculated insult: Mr. Fyodorov was refused admission to the Kremlin today to attend a regular meeting of the Security Council, and Mr. Fyodorov has been unable to meet with Mr. Yeltsin, who has kept himself isolated.
After first issuing impossible conditions for his participation in the Government -- which were easy for an offended Mr. Chernomyrdin to reject -- Mr. Fyodorov opened the possibility of a compromise today. As long as he could keep his status as a Deputy Prime Minister as well as Finance Minister, he suggested in an interview with Interfax, he would remain "unless policy changes so much that this would mean an end to reforms."
 
Him or Me
 Mr. Fyodorov seems to have dropped his insistence that Mr. Gerashchenko be replaced at the Central Bank, but he is still demanding that his own rank be higher than that of a Chernomyrdin ally, Aleksandr K. Zaveryukha, a Deputy Prime Minister who is in charge of agriculture.
But having presented the stark choice -- Mr. Gerashchenko or me -- and then backing down, Mr. Fyodorov will find his position weakened even if he does become Deputy Prime Minister.
The Interfax report quoted a Chernomyrdin spokesman, Valentin Sergeyev, as saying an industrialist, Oleg Soskovets, will be appointed the only First Deputy Prime Minister; this would confirm widespread expectations.
Interfax also said Aleksandr Shokhin, a mainstream reformer who broke with Mr. Gaidar, would replace Mr. Gaidar as Economics Minister. The report added that the Privatization Minister, Anatoly B. Chubais; Yuri Yarov, who is in charge of social issues, and Mr. Zaveryukha would remain Deputy Prime Ministers. But the report made clear that the list was incomplete, holding out the possibility that Mr. Fyodorov would be added.
 
Return of 'Reform Communism'
 Mr. Fyodorov's departure would likely mean a Government of Soviet bureaucrats with experience in "reform Communist" cabinets under the former President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, a period not known for its economic successes. Russian industrialists and their spokesmen, like Yuri Skokov and Arkady Volsky, would gain considerably more influence.
Mr. Chernomyrdin has made it clear that he regards the fight against inflation as less important than supporting Russian industry and stopping the slump in production. He wants to increase credits and energy subsidies considerably to healthier or more strategic state industries, and to concentrate on export products -- including arms. In fact, the Security Council agenda today was dominated by the topic of increasing arms exports.
In an extraordinary gesture, another reform economist, Grigory A. Yavlinsky, told reporters at the lower house that he was prepared to form a Government to save the nation and could do so in three weeks. Mr. Yavlinsky said he assumed Mr. Chernomyrdin would resign as the economic crisis worsened.
 
A Billion Here, a Billion There
 Given pent-up inflationary demand and an artificially supported ruble, Mr. Yavlinsky said, the collapse of the ruble is in large part a necessary correction. "What is happening now is payment for everything that has been done," he said.
It is an expensive payment, made dearer by the sense of panic. The $1 billion that the Central Bank has spent trying to defend the ruble represents two-thirds of the $1.5 billion that the I.M.F. has been unwilling to lend Russia until it shows a better economic performance, indicating how little leverage such sums have on Moscow.
For Vadim Sergeyevich, 34, a businessmen who found no dollars at the Minsk Hotel change booth, there was nothing but uncertainty. "I came to buy because the rate is falling so fast," he said. "Who the hell knows what's going to happen tomorrow?"
The Baltic nations asked themselves the same thing today, after Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev suggested Tuesday that some Russian troops should remain in the former Soviet states to prevent a "security vacuum." Ministry officials said today that Mr. Kozyrev was saying nothing new, and that in this case he meant members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, with which Russia has bilateral troop agreements.
"There is no question about any changes in Russia's approach toward the building of its relations with the Baltic states," Grigory Karasin, a ministry spokesman, said.
But Western diplomats suggested Mr. Kozyrev might be trying particularly to warn Lithuania -- from which Russian troops have already withdrawn -- about its recent statements about joining NATO.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Muscovite studied exchange rates posted on a mobile bank yesterday as an armed police guard looked on. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK OF BELIZE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICS (76%); INTEREST RATES (69%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S (PRIME MIN); FYODOROV, BORIS G (MIN) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



509 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Zairians Strike Over Plan to Close Parliament

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Hundreds of thousands of Zairians stayed away from work today to protest President Mobutu Sese Seko's decision to dissolve the Parliament and name a new prime minister.
The general strike, which local analysts called by far the most effective of several efforts in recent months to shut down this country's biggest city, was called by Mr. Mobutu's opponent, Etienne Tshisekedi, who heads a rival government that the President has refused to recognize. 
 Last Friday, in an effort to resolve Zaire's long political impasse, Mr. Mobutu announced that he was dismissing both his own Government, headed by Prime Minister Faustin Birindwa, and that of Mr. Tshisekedi's.
Belgium, the former colonial ruler of Zaire, and the country's main international donors, France and the United States, have recognized Mr. Tshisekedi's Government and called upon Mr. Mobutu to do the same. They have accused the President of clinging to the trappings of power, while ordinary and increasingly desperate citizens carry the burden of his misrule.
Instead, Mr. Mobutu announced that a meeting would be held today in order to merge the two governments and elect a new prime minister. But Mr. Tshisekedi has rejected Mr. Mobutu's proposal, saying the President has no constitutional authority to dissolve his Government, appointed by a transitional council last year.
The meeting today, which Mr. Mobutu was expected to attend, was postponed. But apparently in response to Mr. Tshisekedi's outspoken defiance, the opposition leader's house on the outskirts of the city was surrounded by troops, but by nightfall, there had been no effort to enter the house.
Kinshasa's main business thoroughfare was virtually deserted, and shops, Government offices and markets were closed. And most roads leading into the center of the city, usually congested with traffic, were empty, except for heavily armed patrols.
But while opposition leaders hailed the strike today as an unqualified success, in truth, it is impossible to know how many people stayed away in protest, and how many were intimidated, fearing a violent confrontation between Government troops and the opposition.
Indeed, early this morning shooting erupted near the city's center, and an hourlong power cut plunged many parts of the city into darkness. The reasons for the gunfire were not clear, but Kinshasa has been gripped by increasing lawlessness and economic chaos, and political turmoil since this former one-party state introduced multi-party politics in April 1990.
Kinshasa, with about 5 million people, is believed to be the only city affected by the demonstrations. Most of the country was reported to be calm and functioning as best it could, given that normal Government services were few and often nonexistent.
And paradoxically, what African and Western diplomats fear most is that the apparent success of the protests today may embolden the opposition, leading to a direct confrontation between ordinary citizens and the Mobutu Government -- a confrontation that almost certainly would lead to bloodshed.
"Maintaining the status quo right now may not be necessarily bad," said a senior Western relief official, "because as long as they're talking, they won't be shooting at one another."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (56%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAIRE; KINSHASA (ZAIRE); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (56%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STRIKES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES PRIME MINISTERS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); POWER FAILURES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); SHOOTINGS (66%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES); TSHISEKEDI, ETIENNE MOBUTU SESE SEKO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



510 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Fed Sees New Indicators of Acceleration in U.S. Economy

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
The economy showed fresh "signs of acceleration" as 1994 began, including new factory hiring and strong consumer spending, the Federal Reserve said today.
In its "beige book," which summarizes regional business conditions, the Fed said, "Economic activity continued to expand, with signs of acceleration in some sectors." 
 In the flat, unemotional language habitually used in the central bank's reports, that amounted to the most positive view of the economy since before the 1990-91 recession, said Cynthia Latta, an economist with DRI-McGraw Hill in Lexington, Mass.
The Fed said: "Consumer spending, especially on household-related items, was strong during the holidays in most districts. Manufacturing activity strengthened, and the manufacturing employment picture improved somewhat."
The only real sour note in the report was that "weak economic conditions continued in Southern California." That assessment of conditions was made before the destruction of the earthquake that hit Los Angeles on Monday.
 
Rate Increases Seen
 The report by the Fed today, compiled from interviews conducted before Jan. 10 by the Fed's 12 regional banks, was prepared for a meeting of central bank monetary policy makers on Feb. 3 and 4.
Many economists said they believed the policy makers could decide at the meeting to increase short-term interest rates sometime during the first quarter, in an effort to keep a lid on incipient inflationary pressures as the economy strengthens.
But the price rises generally have been small. And, Ms. Latta said, the strong economic growth found by the Fed as the year ended probably would fade somewhat, delaying an increase in the rates to the end of the first quarter.
"I don't think they will be inclined to tighten quite yet," she said. "Our view is this very strong fourth quarter is temporary. We may well see 5 percent growth in the fourth quarter, but we won't see that in the first half of 1994."
Despite the increased economic activity, the Fed said it had noted "little upward pressure on wages and prices." But, it said, there were widespread reports of rising lumber costs and "scattered labor shortages."
 
Activity in Manufacturing
 Regarding manufacturing, the Fed said some factories in the Cleveland and Minneapolis districts were operating near capacity. Manufacturers were busiest making construction-related products, automobiles, personal computers and capital equipment.
Military-related manufacturing was described as sluggish and clothing manufacturing as lackluster.
The central bank had mildly positive words for the long-moribund commercial real estate markets. It said conditions were still sluggish, but construction and leasing had improved in some markets.
It said, "Residential real estate sales and construction grew robustly in almost all districts."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); APPAREL MFG (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (69%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (69%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); GARMENT WORKERS (66%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (65%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (60%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



511 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
AMERITECH CORP. (N)

 BODY:
The Ameritech Corporation, the regional phone company for the Midwest, reported yesterday that its fourth-quarter earnings rose 18.7 percent from a year earlier on a 6.1 percent gain in revenues.
Ameritech's earnings of $398.2 million, or 73 cents a share, were far stronger than analysts' expectations. Daniel Reingold of Merrill Lynch had expected a quarterly profit of 67 cents a share, adjusting for a recent 2-for-1 stock split. 
 Richard W. Phelke, Ameritech vice president and treasurer, attributed the rise primarily to a recovery in the economy in the Midwest that increased demand for telephone service.
For the year, growth in the number of telephone lines was 3.3 percent, to 17.6 million lines in Illinois and the four other Midwestern states in Ameritech's service area. Growth was especially strong among residential customers who sought second lines for fax machines and computers.
"We are also working hard to be as competitive as possible," Mr. Phelke said in an interview. Lower interest costs helped and so did attrition, early retirement and other measures that reduced the work force by 4,100 employees, to 67,200 total employees.

GRAPHIC: Table: "AMERITECH CORP. (N)" 

Qtr. to Dec 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Rev.	3,016,300,000	2,843,100,000	+6.1	Net inc.	398,200,000	335,500,000	+18.7	Sh. earn	.73	.62		Sh. out.	546,270,000	539,090,000		Yr rev.	11,710,400,000	11,153,100,000	+5	Net inc.	1,512,800,000	b400,400,000		Sh. earn	2.78	(.75)		Sh. out.	544,076,000	536,560,000		 	 	 	 	b-Net loss, which was after a charge of $1,746,400,000, or $3.26 a share, from an adjustment in accounting.	 	 	 	Share earnings were restated to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split effective Dec. 31.	 	 	 	(Loss)	 	 	 		 	 	 	Yesterday's closing price:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	$78.875	 	 	 	Up $3.75	 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: T (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AMERITECH CORP AT&T INC (98%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERITECH CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MIDWEST USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); STOCK SPLITS (76%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



512 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
AMR, Citing Strike, Posts $253 Million Loss

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, said yesterday that a strike by its flight attendants last fall cost the carrier $190 million and led to a fourth-quarter net loss of $253 million.
The five-day strike in November also wiped out a profit AMR would have otherwise reported for the entire year, leading instead to a loss of $110 million in 1993. 
 The strike may give a small lift to other carriers, which have not yet reported their fourth-quarter earnings. AMR officials underscored the fact that the strike had lingering effects on the company's operations.
 
 
Lingering Effects
 "A strike is not like a rain shower, that its effects are gone when the rain stops," said Michael J. Durham, American's chief financial officer. "During the five days, all of the people that were making airline reservations for the future -- and there are hundreds of thousands of people who make reservations every day -- were making reservations on other carriers."
American said Tuesday that it would try to avert the threat of a strike this year when it negotiates with its pilots for a new contract. The carrier and the Allied Pilots Association proposed Tuesday to go to binding arbitration to settle any differences, rather go through a crippling strike again. The new strategy must be approved by the union's members.
Julius Maldutis, an airline analyst at Salomon Brothers, said that while advance bookings were strengthening and excessive capacity in the industry was on the decline, fundamental financial improvements were not occurring as quickly as many people had expected.
"The airline industry recovery appears to be lagging the recovery in the economy," he said, adding that the earthquake in Los Angeles is likely to affect the airline business more than many people might expect.
Although airports were operating shortly after the earthquake struck on Monday, many passengers and cargo shippers continue to be hobbled by its effects, he said.
 
 
After-Tax Charges
 AMR said that besides the five-day strike in November, its performance was affected by special after-tax charges of $62 million related to legal costs and previously announced layoffs.
AMR reported a loss of $3.55 a share in the quarter, compared with a $2.66 loss in the period a year earlier. AMR's operating loss was $162 million in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $145 million a year earlier. Revenues rose slightly to $3.59 billion, compared with $3.58 billion a year earlier.
For 1993, AMR said it lost $110 million, or $2.23 a share, on revenues of $15.82 billion. That compares with a loss of $935 million, or $12.49 a share, on 1992 revenues of $14.4 billion.
Although the loss was greater than analysts had expected, AMR's stock closed yesterday at $71.25, up $1.375.

GRAPHIC: Table: AMR Corp. (N) 

Qtr. to Dec 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Rev.	3,591,000,000	3,577,000,000	+0.39	Net loss	b253,000,000	c200,000,000		Sh. earn	(3.55)	(2.66)		Yr rev.	15,816,000,000	14,396,000,000	+9.86	Net loss	b110,000,000	c935,000,000		Sh. earn	(2.23)	(12.49)		Sh. out.	76,000,000	75,000,000		 	 	 	 	b-Included extraordinary losses of $7 million, or 8 cents a share, in the quarter and $14 million, or 18 cents a share, for the year, from retirement and repurchase of long-term debt. The period also included a $62 million charge for litigation and layoff costs, and for the year a $79 million charge for the retirement of 31 DC-10 aircraft.	 	 	 	c-Included $21 million in after-tax special charges for the quarter, and the year included a $109 million provision related to the suspension of a computer reservation project, and after a net charge of $460 million, or $6.14 a share, that included a charge of $595 million for the cumulative effect of an accounting change for post-retirement benefits other thanpensions, and an accounting gain of $135 million for income taxes.	 	 	 	Revenue represented operating revenues.	 	 	 	(Loss)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Yesterday's closing price	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	$71.25	 	 	 	Up $1.375	 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMR CORP (96%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (55%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (55%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; STRIKES; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); EARTHQUAKES (63%); EXECUTIVES (54%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (51%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



513 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: State of Emergency Declared in Kentucky As Bitter Cold Closes Interstate Highways

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 19

 BODY:
The Winter of '94 is just a few weeks old, but the people of Kentucky will no doubt remember it for a long time.
Today, for the third day in a row, a state of emergency was in effect for the state, hit hard by a crippling combination of freezing rain, heavy snow and subzero temperatures. 
 All four interstate highways that crisscross Kentucky, nearly 730 miles of snow- and ice-covered roadway, were closed to all but emergency vehicles and those with special state permits, allowing the drivers to risk life and limb on the roads.
"This is the absolute worst situation we've ever had to face as a result of a winter storm," said James M. Everett, executive director of the state's Disaster and Emergency Services. "It's taxing the entire disaster and emergency system."
 
Shortages of Goods
 Shortages of goods and supplies were reported across Kentucky because trucks could not make deliveries. On Tuesday, as many as 900 18-wheel trucks were stranded in the parking lot of a shopping mall in Florence, Ky., 15 miles south of Cincinnati. A short stretch of interstate was opened as a truck escape route into Ohio. For many in Kentucky, the trucks' departure must have been painful, since rural grocery stores are reporting dwindling stocks.
Gas and electric utilities were pushed to the breaking point, with at least one small rural electric utility forced to shut when consumer demand overloaded the system.
In Minnesota, where winter carnivals mock the cold, 20 percent of the public schools were closed today. Half were closed in Minneapolis and St. Paul.
 
Temperatures Turn Around
 Across the rest of the Midwestern and Eastern winter belt, the bitter cold was beginning to loosen its grip today. Temperatures throughout the region began a slow, seductive climb toward zero and beyond after several days of subzero temperatures.
Here in Chicago, the city recorded its sixth consecutive day of subzero temperatures. But by late afternoon, the temperature had climbed to 7 degrees above zero, not shirt-sleeve weather but welcome nonetheless.
By the weekend, temperatures in Chicago were expected to reach the 30's and 40's. "It's going to feel like summertime," a man said today as he hurried along a downtown street, his breath frozen in air.
Today, in Kentucky the temperature hovered near zero, and relief from the brutal weather is not expected until Friday, when the National Weather Service expects temperatures to climb into the mid-40's.
 
Asking for Federal Help
 Gov. Brereton C. Jones toured his frigid state by airplane this afternoon. Mr. Everett said an application to seek Federal disaster assistance was being readied and officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency had arrived in Frankfort, the state capital.
Travel on the 725 miles of interstate highway was restricted today, except for vehicles that obtain a state permit for delivery of medical supplies, food and fuels. As of noon today, 400 permits had been issued, Mr. Everett said, and several truckers without permits were arrested.
Bob Adelman, the owner of Roadco Transportation, which dispatches trucks nationwide from Cicero, Ill., said his drivers are either bypassing the state or are waiting out the weather in roadside motels.
"That's causing a big-time impact," Mr. Adelman said. "We have freight that goes south, but we're staying out of Kentucky. If something needs to be delivered there, it's just going to have to wait until next week."
Shipments to the East Coast have also been slowed because of the weather and a lack of road salt in New Jersey, Mr. Adelman said.
"I often say this is a time of the year where you separate the men from the boys," he said. "If you go into this season in poor financial shape, this kind of thing will put you out of business. No pun intended, but it's a cold, cold world out there."
 
A Mixed Blessing
 The wicked weather has kept people inside, a mixed blessing, say police and experts on domestic violence.
Although there are no firm statistics available, Billy Davis, the spokesman for the Chicago Police Department, said the cold weather has probably reduced the number of street robberies "because there's nobody out on the streets."
But Carol Arthur, the director of a domestic abuse prevention and treatment program in Minneapolis, said the extreme temperatures combined with cabin fever can cause the stresses that lead to violent assault.
"The man goes out, the car won't start, he comes back in and he takes it out on his partner, that's a real typical scene we see at these times," Ms. Arthur said. "Cold weather is a cause of abuse because it causes all sorts of stresses that aren't normally there: catching the flu, having to stay home from work, having to stay inside. It adds up."
The worst of the storm hit Kentucky on the weekend and early attempts to plow the interstate highways were hampered by jackknifed trucks scattered about the road like a fleet of toys.
"We couldn't get the plows through some sections," Mr. Everett said, adding that plowing is possible now but clearing the road of ice is still difficult. "Salt and other chemicals just don't work in these temperatures," he said.
The economic effect on the region will take some time to determine. Statewide, a record 943 Kentucky National Guardsmen are on duty to help deliver emergency supplies and remove snow.
 
Problems at Plants
 But already some auto assembly plants and other manufacturers, which use "just-in-time inventory" as part of their production process, "are really upset" because supplies cannot reach the plants, Mr. Everett said.
Emergency officials in each county have been asking owners of four-wheel-drive vehicles to help transport doctors to hospitals. Mr. Everett said even he is relying on a volunteer with a four-wheel-drive vehicle to take him to work.
In Kentucky and throughout much of the region, education has been one of the most visible victims of the cold. Schools throughout the region were closed today, keeping hundreds of thousands of students at home and parents scrambling for baby sitters and other day care arrangements.
In Chicago the schools were closed for the second day in a row. It was the first time in the city's history that its public school system, the third largest in the nation with 411,000 pupils, had been shut because of cold weather. The schools are expected to reopen on Thursday.
At Board of Education headquarters, officials were studying the temperature and gauging the wind-chill index like high school students cramming for a college entrance exam.
 
Ohio State Closes
 Ohio State University in Columbus was also closed because of the cold, the first time in 16 years classes had been canceled because of weather.
The weather has also snarled the trucking industry, in some cases tripling costs. Fred Serpe, director of the Illinois Transportation Association, which represents 700 trucking and other transportation companies, said fuel, maintenance and motel costs have been climbing as fast as the temperature has been plunging.
Because of the cold and swirling snow many drivers have been forced off the road and into motel rooms to wait it out. Trucking companies have been forced to keep engines running 24 hours a day, profits and fuel burning away in the bitter wind.
"You can't risk turning the trucks off," Mr. Serpe said. "They might not start up again."
A third of Amtrak's trains into and out of Union Station in Chicago were canceled today. The trains that were running were operating at reduced speeds, Deborah Hare, an Amtrak spokeswoman, said.
"One of our trains sitting in our yard awaiting maintenance was found frozen to the tracks," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sometimes you can't even give it away. One merchant in Washington tried yesterday, because, with the cold snap showing no signs of abating, it seemed the only way to move a product that normally sells itself. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY; UNITED STATES (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; ROADS AND TRAFFIC NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); WEATHER (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RETAILERS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (53%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



514 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO;
Whitman's Tax Pledge: A Bold, Risky Surprise

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
In her first hours in office, Christine Todd Whitman has used a surprise announcement about a retroactive tax cut and two executive orders to build herself a political cushion against some of the blows that landed on her during the governor's race.
The Governor, who was inaugurated Tuesday, has also bought time for many of the ambitious goals she set for herself, including her pledge to cut the income tax by 30 percent in her first three years in office. 
 "I think what she did was very smart in terms of a chief executive manipulating symbols," said Clifford Zukin, a political scientist at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University.
One signal came when Mrs. Whitman interrupted her inaugural speech to sign her first executive order, creating a New Jersey Economic Master Plan Commission to develop what she said would be a long-term strategy to make the state an "economic powerhouse."
 
A Political Shield
 With the stroke of a pen, Mrs. Whitman did more than create the commission, which does not yet have any members; she also gave herself a temporary shield against those who would clamor for her to deliver immediately on the promise to restore the state economy.
Today, Mrs. Whitman turned her attention to ethics, which had been an issue in her race last fall against Gov. Jim Florio. She signed an executive order that consolidated and extended financial disclosure requirements for state officials, as well as restoring and tightening provisions affecting blind trusts.
(She also signed an executive order driven by natural, not political events, declaring a statewide energy emergency in New Jersey brought on by a surge in utility use because of the severe winter storm.)
But it was her pledge on Tuesday that she would produce an immediate tax cut that brought a gasp and then sustained applause from the inaugural audience and commanded headlines across the state today.
 
Bold First Installment
 The announcement showed the same kind of boldness that Mrs. Whitman demonstrated late in the gubernatorial race, when she first made her tax-cut pledge.
"There are still some doubting Thomases that Mrs. Whitman would make good on her promises," said Lawrence A. Kudlow, a chief economist for Bear, Stearns & Company who was one of Mrs. Whitman's chief economic advisers during her campaign and transition. "This is symbolic that she will make good."
Mr. Kudlow and Malcolm S. Forbes Jr., president and chief executive of Forbes Inc., were the authors of Mrs. Whitman's tax-cutting plan, and Mr. Kudlow said today that they also were behind Mrs. Whitman's decision to back the retroactive tax cut.
"I sold it to her at the Republican Governors' Conference in Arizona in November," Mr. Kudlow said. "I asked Christie, would she consider a retroactive? I said I thought it made a lot of economic sense and it made some political sense, too. The last time I spoke to her was two Sundays ago at a New Jersey Devils game and I said, 'Are you still solid on the retro?' and she said, 'Yes.' I was thrilled."
 
Timed for U.S. Increase
 Mr. Kudlow said that beyond its political value, the retroactive cut was timed to coincide with the Federal tax increase that took effect on Jan. 1.
"Also, from an administrative standpoint, most tax administrators prefer to operate on a calendar year rather than the fiscal year," he said.
Mrs. Whitman's nominee for State Treasurer, Brian W. Clymer, said on Tuesday that a 5 percent cut retroactive to Jan. 1 would reduce revenues by $300 million for the calendar year 1994. The state is expected to end its 1994 fiscal year on June 30 with at least a $400 million surplus, which means there would be money at hand to pay for the cut plus a bit for the next round.
But the next round, which will begin when Mrs. Whitman unveils her first budget on March 15, will be much tougher.
 
No One-Shot Tricks
 Besides delivering Part 2 of the tax cut, her budget team will have to find ways to close a projected $1.4 billion gap between revenues and spending. Last year the state used a lot of one-shot financial tricks to balance the budget, methods that cannot be used again; also, raises and new benefits will kick in for many state employees under their union contracts.
In moving immediately to deliver on the first installment of her tax promise, Mrs. Whitman also has gambled her political life on delivering the entire amount.
"I think she is tied to the reduction; there is no way out of it," said Dr. Milton Leontiades, dean of the Rutgers University School of Business at Camden. He said that while Mr. Florio's task of raising taxes was very difficult, "Whitman is taking on an equally difficult task of reducing taxes and looking for ways to pay for it. I don't think either one will be especially popular.'
Mrs. Whitman has promised the largest tax cut in the state's history, in part by reducing the size of government and cutting a nickel out of every dollar the state spends.
 
Spending Cut Only Once
 It seems simple in its explanation, but is daunting in application.
Only once since World War II has New Jersey actually cut the total spending in a budget, said Richard C. Leone, who was State Treasurer from 1973 to 1977 during the first term of Gov. Brendan T. Byrne.
In the 1975-76 state budget year, Governor Byrne reduced the state budget by 1.8 percent over 1974-75.
"It was probably, in political terms, much more wrenching than a tax increase because the fights about who would take the hit affected everybody," said Mr. Leone, who is now president of the 20th Century Fund, a policy research foundation in Manhattan. "The budget is the place where all the factors in politics come together. It's going to be very tough."
"I went through something similar and it was no day at the beach," he said. "I made more enemies that year than the rest of my life put together. My nickname became Dr. No."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman conferring with a member of her security staff outside her State House office in Trenton. She was still receiving praise yesterday for a surprise inaugural pledge Tuesday: an immediate tax cut, retroactive to Jan. 1, that is to grow to 30 percent in three years. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (80%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (63%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); ETHICS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



515 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long Bonds Down on Profit Taking

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, with the longer maturities down on profit taking after Tuesday's price gains and a concern over when the Federal Reserve might raise short-term interest rates.
The price of the Treasury's 30-year bond dropped three-eighths of a point, to 9914/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.29 percent, from 6.26 percent on Tuesday. Short-term rates were slightly mixed, with the three-month bill rate at 2.96 percent and a six-month bill at 3.10 percent, down 1 and 2 basis points, respectively. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent. 
 A report on trade yesterday was of little interest to the market, dealers said. The Government said the merchandise trade deficit in November narrowed to $10.17 billion from an upward revised deficit of $10.9 billion in October. Market expectations called for a deficit number of $10.5 billion, unchanged from the previous month.
 
Focus on Auctions
 Traders instead remained focused on next week's Treasury auctions of new two- and five-year notes and the pace of growth in the first quarter. "We're not really going to get any new information that says if the Fed is going to maintain its present monetary stance or raise interest rates in the near term," one trader said.
Another negative working against the market was a revision of December's National Association of Purchasing Management Index, analysts said. The index was lowered to 57.1, from 57.9, but it was the price component, which was changed to 51.3 from 48.8, that caught the market's attention as a reminder that inflation fears are never far away.
Joseph V. Battapaglia, managing director of Sterling Advisers, a division of Gruntal & Company, said estimates of a fall in economic activity in the fourth quarter had been overblown. Recent numbers suggest not only final strong demand, but also some necessary inventory rebuilding, which would put gross domestic product growth in the first quarter in the neighborhood of 3 to 3.5 percent.
 
Consumer Factors Cited
 The important factors are auto sales and home sales, Mr. Battapaglia said. "Over all, the level of consumer spending continues to be healthy, with some of the keys that turned to neutral from some negatives that were expected." For instance, he said, higher gasoline taxes were more than offset by the decline in energy prices and health care changes went from a two-month project to a one-year project.
"We're going have stable interest rates, more consistent with the 50's and 60's than with recent history, which is the function of steady economic expansion without inflation," Mr. Battapaglia said.
The Federal Reserve's so-called beige book, a regional survey of economic conditions, said the economy was continuing to expand and saw little upward pressure on wages and prices, with loan demand increasing somewhat.
"All in the right direction if the Fed intends to raise rates," said Walter S. Frank, chief economist for IBC/Donoghue, an information service for institutional investors. "It's not enough yet, but if the trend continues they will."
The Treasury announced the terms of next week's two- and five-year note auctions yesterday. The amounts met almost everyone's expectations, with $17 billion in new two-year notes and $12 billion, up $1 billion, in five-year notes.
And in late trading the yield for a two-year note on a when-issued basis was 4.14 percent, while the five-year note was being offered at a price to yield 5.10 percent.
 
Family Restaurants Issue
 In the junk bond market, Family Restaurants yesterday sold $450 million of bonds in two parts through underwriters led by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
The deal is among 10 junk issues totaling about $2.2 billion that are coming to market, according to MCM Corporatewatch, a new-issue information service.
For $300 million of Family Restaurant senior notes due 2002, the price was 100 for a yield of 9.75 percent. These notes are callable in five years and rated B-1 by Moody's Investors Service and B by Standard & Poor's.
The remainder of the issue rated B-3 by Moody's and B- by S.& P., included $150 million face amount of senior subordinated discount notes due 2004, which were priced at $726.97 for a $1,000 bond to yield 10.875 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October 1993. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GRUNTAL & CO INC (64%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (64%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); GASOLINE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); FUEL TAX (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



516 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
New Publishers Selected For Fortune and Money

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY 

 BODY:
Time Inc. named new publishers for Fortune and Money yesterday to replace publishers who are retiring.
Stuart Arnold, advertising sales director of Fortune since 1991, was named publisher of Fortune, replacing James B. Hayes. And Betsy Martin, associate publisher and advertising sales director of Money, was named publisher of Money, replacing William S. Myers. 
 Mr. Hayes, who is 55, is retiring after 35 years at Time Inc. and seven years as publisher of Fortune. He is leaving to head a new organization that will deal with public education, a longtime interest. Mr. Hayes said details of the new organization would be announced next week.
Mr. Hayes's retirement comes a few months before the expected retirement of Marshall Loeb, the longtime managing editor of Fortune, who turns 65 in May.
Mr. Hayes said that after several tough years because of the recession, Fortune made a comeback in 1993 with its largest circulation growth ever. Circulation revenues in 1993 were $8 million more than in 1992, he said, making 1993 the magazine's best year in circulation profitability.
Advertising pages in 1993 were up 9.5 percent over the previous year, according to the Publishers Information Bureau.
Mr. Arnold 42, joined Fortune in 1981 as New York sales representative and has served as the magazine's Pittsburgh-based regional sales manager as well as New York manager. In 1989, he left Fortune for a year to serve as associate publisher of Aviation Week & Space Technology.
 
Money's Publisher Since 1988
 Mr. Myers, 59, who has been with Time Inc. for 32 years, has been the publisher of Money since 1988. From 1982 to 1988, he served as associate publisher and advertising sales director for People magazine. He previously worked at Sports Illustrated and Life magazines and at Home Box Office.
Money's circulation for the first six months of 1993 was 2.16 million, up 13.5 percent from 1992, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations. Its advertising pages were down 3.3 percent from 1992, according to the Publishers Information Bureau.
Ms. Martin joined Money as New York City sales representative in 1981, rising to manager of the magazine's New England sales group, based in Boston. In 1986, she became head of the sales department of Women's Sports and Fitness magazine and in 1987 was named national ad sales director of Working Woman. She returned to Money as ad sales director in 1988 and was named associate publisher last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE); TIME INC; MONEY (MAGAZINE) TIME INC (95%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (55%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE); TIME INC; MONEY (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); SALES MANAGEMENT (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (78%); WOMEN (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (68%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SPORTS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%); AUDITS (50%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, STUART; HAYES, JAMES B; MARTIN, BETSY; MYERS, WILLIAM S; CARMODY, DEIRDRE

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



517 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
BANKAMERICA CORP. (N)

 BODY:
Profits at the BankAmerica Corporation, the nation's second-largest banking company, rose by 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter, to $496 million.
The company earned $1.21 a share for the quarter, slightly less than the $1.23 a share that analysts had expected. 
 BankAmerica, based in San Francisco, earned $1.95 billion in 1993, up 31 percent from 1992.
Like other large banks, BankAmerica saw its holdings of problem assets decline sharply, especially because of improvements in the real estate market. At the end of 1993, the bank held $1.04 billion in problem assets, down 27 percent over the three months.
Suffering from the recession in California, the bank's loans declined to $124.8 billion, from $127.3 billion a year earlier. Lending increased 1.5 percent over the last three months of the year, largely from home mortgages and other consumer loans.
Despite the increase in earnings, the bank's profitability was still modest. It posted a return on equity of 12.9 percent for the year, about the same as in 1992 and far lower than the 18 percent benchmark for highly profitable banks.
But BankAmerica continued to build capital. Its Tier 1 capital -- the Government's main measure of financial strength -- rose to 7.5 percent, from 6.8 percent a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Table: BANKAMERICA CORP. (N) 

Qtr. to Dec 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Net inc.	496,000,000	473,000,000	+4.9	Per shr.	1.21	1.19		Sh. out.	359,547,000	350,794,000		Yr net	1,954,000,000	b1,492,000,000	+31.0	Per shr.	4.79	4.24		Sh. out.	357,680,000	312,218,000		 	 	 	 	b-Included nonrecurring charges and items totaling $190 million, including the accrual of restructuring expenses related to a merger and a gain on the sale of a payroll processing business. Excluding the items, net income for 1992 would have been $1,682,000,000, or $4.85 a share.	 	 	 		 	 	 	Yesterday's closing price:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	$46.50	 	 	 	Down $1.125	 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (LSE) (98%); 8648 (TSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BANKAMERICA CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKAMERICA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



518 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drops Its Threat Of Sanctions on Japan

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today dropped its threat to impose trade sanctions on Japan, citing a pledge by Tokyo to open its $20 billion construction market to foreign competition.
"The Government of Japan has addressed all the major U.S. concerns in the Japanese public works sector," the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, said at a news conference today. Retaliatory sanctions to bar Japanese builders from the American market will therefore prove unnecessary, he said. 
 But Mr. Kantor pointedly said that the resolution of the public works issue should now be used as a building block to surmount other trade problem areas.
The United States and Japan agreed in July to try to find common ground on a broad economic agenda before next month's meeting between President Clinton and Prime Morihiro Hosokawa.
 
Narrowed Trade Gap Reported
 Separately, the Commerce Department today reported a narrowing in November's overall trade gap, with the deficit with Japan falling to $5.72 billion from October's $6.09 billion.
That blip, however, failed to wipe out a dismal performance for the first 11 months of last year, when the global deficit ran at its worst level in six years, with Japan accounting for the lion's share of the $118.7 billion annual shortfall.
Tokyo disclosed its new construction plan on Tuesday, and Mr. Kantor said it demonstrated "Hosokawa's commitment to reform Japanese procurement and regulatory practices."
Mr. Kantor, after postponing a threat of sanctions last October, had given Tokyo until Thursday at the latest to act in the seven-year building dispute. The construction plan covers more than $20 billion of procurement on an annual basis and will make for a more open and competitive bidding system, he said.
Japanese officials said the plan would open up public works projects to foreign bidders by April and make the entire system of awarding jobs more fair and objective. It would also step up punishment for bid-rigging and bribery, which is endemic in the high-profit works sector.
 
Construction Executives Arrested
 Just Tuesday, another scandal broke when executives at Japan's No. 4 construction company were arrested on charges of bribing a mayor.
Japan and the United States exchanged letters agreeing to monitor access to Tokyo's works sector in annual meetings.
"I hope that this positive step sets the stage for concluding meaningful framework agreements prior to the Feb. 11 meeting between President Clinton and Prime Minister Hosokawa," Mr. Kantor said.
President Clinton has repeatedly put Tokyo on notice that it must right the lopsided flow of trade -- which translates into a $50 billion annual deficit for Americans -- or face retaliation. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen is expected to take the same message when he flies to Tokyo on Sunday to discuss the logjammed economic talks.
"At the request of the President, Secretary Bentsen is planning to meet with Prime Minister Hosokawa in Tokyo on Jan. 23 to discuss the economic framework negotiations," said a Treasury spokeswoman in Beijing, where Mr. Bentsen is traveling.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" tracks imports, exports and deficit from July 1992 through November 1993. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PUBLIC WORKS; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CARTELS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ARRESTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%); SCANDALS (61%); BRIBERY (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); 

PERSON: KANTOR, MICKEY (TRADE REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



519 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Chief Says U.S. Economists Oppose Trade Targets

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan, in a reply to an open letter from American economists, has reiterated his opposition to setting targets for opening Japan's markets.
"I was very gratified and encouraged to note in your open letter that your opposition to managed trade coincides with our views," the Prime Minister wrote in his letter, dated Dec. 27. 
 The letter was provided by a Japanese Government official who wanted to show that the top politicians in Japan, not only its bureaucrats, were opposed to the central American demand in current trade negotiations that quantitative benchmarks be set to measure progress in opening Japan's markets. Some Clinton Administration officials have been hoping that Japan's bureaucrats could be made to budge in the deadlocked trade talks by appealing to Japanese politicians.
 
Part of a Campaign
 While Mr. Hosokawa's views have been stated previously, the release of the letter is part of a campaign by Japan to resist trade targets as the Feb. 11 deadline approaches for reaching several agreements under the new negotiating framework signed by the United States and Japan last July.
Just today, an advisory committee to Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry issued a report saying that targets were undesirable and that market share of foreign products was not an indication of whether a nation's markets were open or closed.
And in a related matter, Japan's Government today resisted requests from the United States to take strong new steps to increase sales of foreign semiconductors in Japan.
The American request and Japanese demurral came during an emergency meeting here today that had been called by the Clinton Administration, which is concerned that the foreign share of Japan's computer chip market has dropped below the 20 percent goal of a semiconductor trade agreement between the two nations.
 
Loves the Letter
 Last September, about 40 economists and Japan experts, mainly from the United States, signed an open letter to President Clinton and Prime Minister Hosokawa, saying that "U.S. demands for managed trade are misguided." Japan's Government loves this letter.
In his written reply to three of the scholars -- Jagdish Bhagwati and Hugh Patrick of Columbia University and Gary Saxonhouse of the University of Michigan -- Mr. Hosokawa said Japan would take "voluntary steps" to increase imports in an effort to achieve a "highly significant" reduction in Japan's current account surplus, as called for in the framework agreement reached between Mr. Hosokawa's predecessor and President Clinton.
But he said Japan "as a matter of principle, has sedulously avoided any approach of setting numerical targets, since such an approach could not fail to lead to excessive government intervention in the market and to managed trade."
Regarding semiconductors, an American trade official said after today's meeting that he was "disappointed" that Japan seemed to show a "lack of appreciation of the seriousness of U.S. concern on this issue." Officials in Washington will now discuss what to do next.
In the 1991 semiconductor agreement, Japan recognized the expectation of the American side that foreign companies could gain 20 percent of Japan's semiconductor market by the end of 1992. The agreement also calls for a "steady and gradual improvement in market access" after 1992.
 
No Crisis, Japan Says
 While foreign share inched above 20 percent in the fourth quarter of 1992, just in time to meet the deadline, it has fallen steadily since then and reached 18.1 percent in the third quarter of 1993 using the American calculation method, and 19.7 percent using the Japanese method.
Japan does not see the situation as a crisis requiring emergency measures, a Japanese trade official said. Sales of foreign chips actually rose in the 1993 third quarter. The reason market share declined was that the size of the market grew even faster, with most of the growth being for the types of chips that Japanese companies specialize in.
The semiconductor agreement has become a key reference point for the current framework talks. The American side uses it as evidence that setting targets is effective. Japan uses it as an example of how the United States takes even a vague goal -- the chip agreement clearly states that 20 percent foreign share is not a "guarantee" -- and treats it as a commitment by Japan.
The Japanese official said the revival of controversy over the semiconductor issue could harden Japan's resolve against numerical indicators in the framework talks. "This is the kind of thing that could happen in the future in the framework if we are not careful," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); SEMICONDUCTORS (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); MARKET SHARE (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); MICROPROCESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN); POLLACK, ANDREW BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



520 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rallies Against Yen On Easing of Trade Tension

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar rebounded against the Japanese yen yesterday amid signs of a possible breakthrough in strained trade talks between Japan and the United States. It rose to 111.43 yen in late New York trading, from 110.79 late Tuesday.
Gold prices slipped. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery fell 90 cents, to $392.70 an ounce. 
 The dollar also rose against some leading European currencies. In New York, it was quoted at 1.7462 German marks, up from 1.7460 late Tuesday. The British pound closed in New York at $1.4925, down from late Tuesday's $1.4965.
Growing tension on the trade front sent the dollar to a low of 110.20 yen in early New York dealings. These tensions have caused fears that American officials would push for a weaker dollar to try to hack away at the country's nagging trade imbalance with Japan.
A weaker dollar promotes American exports by making them less expensive abroad while raising the cost of foreign imports here.
Worries about the trade situation subsided yesterday after the Clinton Administration dropped its threat to impose sanctions on Japan, citing a "historic" pledge by Tokyo to open its $20 billion-a-year construction market to foreign competition. Later, a Government spokeswoman said Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen would meet with Japan's Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, on Sunday. The dollar rallied on the news.
"It increases the chances that the U.S. and Japan will reach an amicable solution to the trade problems," said David Durst, vice president at Bear Stearns. "It suggests Japan may be willing to offer a solution to the problem by stimulating its economy via consumer demand."
Further alleviating concern over the American trade deficit with Japan, the Commerce Department reported that the nation's trade imbalance had improved during November.
"It was a slightly better number," said Jack Griffin, manager of corporate foreign exchange at Fuji Bank. He noted, however, that the gains were somewhat limited as the trade deficit remained large despite the narrowing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); BRITISH POUND (71%); GERMAN MARK (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



521 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: TALKING WITH: Bernice King;
Shaping Her Own Dream

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
A FEW days before the nation celebrated her father's life Monday, Bernice King was talking about coming to terms with his death.
"I was 16, with our church youth group in the north Georgia mountains, and we had just finished watching, 'Montgomery to Memphis,' a documentary on the civil rights movement," said Miss King, 30, now a minister and law school graduate in Atlanta, and the youngest of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s four children. "When they did the funeral portion, I broke out in tears and left the cabin and went out into the woods, crying and asking God, 'Why? Why? Why?' It was shortly after that time I decided I was through with the church and God." 
 But not long afterward, Miss King found herself drawn back to the church and began moving toward making her father's career her own in a slow, unfinished journey that takes on particular resonance each year, during the King holiday.
Being designated the spiritual heir of a figure as commanding as Dr. King would be a cruel burden for anyone to carry. But from the time she electrified the Ebenezer Baptist Church during the King Day celebration a year ago with a sermon whose every breath whispered and roared her father's vision, that burden has been thrust on Bernice King.
"It's out there, very definitely," she said of the public perception that of his children she is the one most likely to walk in his footsteps. "I don't think I resent it. I'm partly uncomfortable with it, because I know certain things are required for leadership that I have not yet evolved to. But I think people are beginning to see that Bernice knows what she wants to do and doesn't want to do, and she is not going to let you pull her in any direction where she doesn't want to go."
If young John F. Kennedy Jr.'s heartbreaking salute was perhaps the most moving image from the funeral of President Kennedy, the comparable image after Dr. King's assassination in Memphis was Bernice, then a week past her fifth birthday, lying in her mother's lap during his funeral in Atlanta.
Born just before her father left for Birmingham for his historic confrontation with T. Eugene (Bull) Connor's police dogs and fire hoses, Miss King's direct memories of her father are so slender and fleeting she holds tightly to each one. There was a kissing game he played in which each of his children had a little spot, hers on his forehead, to kiss during the all-too-rare occasions when he could be home. More powerful for her is a phantom memory she clings to.
"Strangely enough, about five years after he passed, it seemed as if it was just yesterday that I was jumping in his arms," she said. "I mean literally, I felt like, gosh, it was just two days ago. So, I hold on to that memory. It was only in that last year that I really started understanding that he was my father, and then he was taken away."
But if the direct memories are dim, her spiritual link with her father is profound: from the "call" she said she received to follow him into the ministry to the cadences, wording and rhythms in her preaching that she knows echo his.
Miss King said she considered almost every career other than the ministry. As a teen-ager, she decided to enter politics and made up her mind to become the nation's first African-American and first female President. In college, she considered being a television anchor. She graduated from Spelman College with a degree in psychology and then earned a law degree at Emory University. But a speech on apartheid she gave to the United Nations in 1980 at age 17 made her aware for the first time of her oratorical gifts. And in March 1988, she preached her first sermon at Ebenezer Baptist Church, where her father and grandfather had both been pastors. She was ordained two years later.
Miss King, who chose to be interviewed in the anonymous surroundings of a bare room in her publicist's suburban offices, has her father's round face and large eyes. They are accented by styled dark bangs that fall over her forehead and gold hoop earrings. Before flying out to give a speech at Alabama State University in Montgomery, one of six she did in three states late last week, she wore a high-necked ribbed green shirt, green jeans and brown boots with green socks, although fashion does not appear to be her biggest concern.
Asked if there is any significance to the turquoise-colored pendant around her neck she shrugged. "I just bought it," she said. "It's nothing. I don't even know what it is."
In Atlanta, the King family is treated like royalty, much as the Kennedys are in Boston, with the combination of reverence and resentment that can bring. Besides their mother, Coretta Scott King, there are Yolanda King, 38, an actress, producer and director whose work focuses on social and political issues; Martin Luther King 3d, 36, a former member of the Fulton County Commission, who lost a bid to be elected its chairman last year, and Dexter King, 32, who has an entertainment production company, briefly headed the Atlanta Center, founded in Dr. King's honor, and is active overseeing his father's estate.
All four are single. Asked what she makes of that, Miss King laughed and said: "That's a $100 million question. If I had an answer to that, I think we'd be married. It takes a very exceptional man, who's secure within himself, to have to deal with the public side."
Miss King, whose friends call her Bunny, has both public and private sides, too. From the pulpit, her voice resonates with her father's passion and strength, although she says her style is more traditional Baptist than his, her pace faster, and her concerns more personal. "I think his starting point is sociology, and mine is psychology," she said. In private, her Southern-accented voice animated and conversational, she is relaxed and self-effacing, with more the looks and manner of an eager graduate student than of an angry prophet.
Miss King is an associate minister at the Greater Rising Star Baptist Church in Atlanta, where she heads a singles ministry that the senior pastor there, Byron Broussard, says is a laboratory for the community work she would like to do on a national scale. She continues her membership at Ebenezer Baptist Church, where she sings in the Martin Luther King Sr. Choir. She also helped found AMEN (Active Ministers Engaged in Nurturing), a group that counsels juvenile offenders, and she hopes to expand it to a broader organization working with black youths.
Like her father, she reflects the conservative social roots that have often infused African-American political movements.
"I think if we're going to reclaim or recapture young people, it's going to have to be through the church or through spirituality, because we are spiritual beings whether we like it or not," she said. "People say to me all the time, 'There are a lot of young blacks that are angry,' and I say: 'You know there's nothing wrong with anger. It's what you do with it. It's whether it becomes constructive anger or destructive anger.' "
She is a student as well as a daughter of Dr. King. "There's a sermon he did on hope that I really, really love," she said. "I need to really focus on it and get it in my mind. I like his 'Where Do We Go From Here: Chaos or Community?' because it allowed me to see a side of him that I really respect, an ability to really understand positions and not become defensive, but to take people to another level in what they're doing."
In fact, if she has a problem with her father's legacy it is that it has not been taken to another level, but instead has been ossified into the King of "I have a dream" even though her father had moved past a narrow focus on civil rights toward broader issues of human rights and economic justice. It is striking to hear Dr. King's daughter enunciating a post-civil rights view of race in America.
"For a long time, we as African-Americans have gotten caught up in the victim cycle," she said. "It does not excuse the fact that we are victims, but if we stay caught up in that, then we cannot liberate ourselves, and we certainly can't help to liberate others. It's kind of like, as you grow up as a child, your parents do something to you, and you're 25, 30, 40 years old and you're still blaming your parents for what happened to you. At some point, you have to begin to direct it toward something positive that will help heal the situation."
It's not that the times now don't call for anger or struggle, but the issues that define 1994 are different from those of 1964, she said.
"To me, racism is not as hard an issue to deal with anymore," she said. "It's a challenge that we still need to deal with. But because the laws have been changed, it doesn't threaten as many people. But when you start talking about money, when you start moving to the economic level, that does something else to you."
For now, her focus is on her ministry, counseling and speaking. She said she is not interested in politics but does not rule out the possibility of a broader leadership role in the future.
"I like my privacy," she said. "I don't care for the public side, if only for the expectations and the scrutiny. But I have friends that always tell me that 'you have certain gifts, and it's almost inevitable that you will end up in some kind of leadership role that will challenge the system.' So, who knows?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bernice King, a daughter and spiritual heir of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Bernice King with her mother at the funeral for her father. (Associated Press) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); DOGS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); 

PERSON: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68); KING, BERNICE (REV); KING, BERNICE (REV); APPLEBOME, PETER MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



522 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Revlon's Chairman Donates $10 Million To the Guggenheim

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
Barely four weeks after announcing that its landmark Frank Lloyd Wright building would be named in honor of the developer Samuel J. LeFrak and his wife, Ethel, the donors of $10 million, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum said yesterday that it had received another gift of $10 million, from the financier Ronald O. Perelman.
Part of the gift from Mr. Perelman, who is the chairman of Revlon, will go to commission a sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein that will be placed on or above the sculpture terrace on the exterior of the Fifth Avenue museum's new tower building. The remainder of the gift is an unrestricted cash donation. With its announcement of the gift, the museum formally kicked off a $100 million capital campaign; about $50 million of that amount has now been raised, said Thomas Krens, the Guggenheim's director. 
 But what's left to be named after Mr. Perelman? "There's plenty left," said Mr. Krens. "All the galleries, the roof terrace, the theater, the ramps; SoHo isn't out of the question either," he added, referring to the museum's downtown branch, at 575 Broadway, which opened in mid-1992.
Mr. Krens went on to say that Mr. Perelman's gift "isn't about the naming opportunity." "Ron's been more generous than most people realize," the director said. "He doesn't want his name on things."
 
'Poised for Great Growth'
 "The Guggenheim is a fabulous institution, poised for great growth over the next decade, and I saw an opportunity to help accelerate that growth," Mr. Perelman said yesterday.
Mr. Perelman was elected to the museum's board last February. Another of his companies, the Marvel Entertainment Group, sponsored the Guggenheim's Lichtenstein retrospective, which closed on Sunday.
The Perelman gift was the third $10 million donation a New York City cultural institution had received in the last month. The first was the LeFraks' gift to the Guggenheim (which as a museum is still the Guggenheim, in spite of the fact that the Wright building is now the Samuel J. and Ethel LeFrak Building). Last week, the fashion designer Bill Blass gave $10 million to the New York Public Library, and the public catalogue room of the central research library at Fifth Avenue and 42d Street was named the Bill Blass Public Catalogue Room. Mr. Perelman's donation is crucial to the Guggenheim's capital drive, which it has named the Campaign for the Next Century.
"This gift puts us over the $50 million mark," said Mr. Krens, who added that two-thirds of the money raised from the drive would go into capital improvements and a third to the museum's endowment.
 
Expansion, in Manhattan and Out
 At a time when many museums have been cutting back, the Guggenheim has been moving aggressively to expand, and to raise the money necessary to finance its growth. In the last few years, the institution spent $58 million restoring the museum's Wright building; adding the 10-story limestone tower, designed by the Manhattan architects Gwathmey Siegel & Associates; constructing a vault beneath the museum, and purchasing and renovating a warehouse on the West Side of Manhattan.
To pay for these projects, the Guggenheim used $54.9 million in tax-exempt bonds issued through the Trust for Cultural Resources of the City of New York. At the time the bonds were issued, in August 1990, the museum's endowment stood at roughly $20 million, which led to speculation that if the museum could not find the money to pay back the bonds, its art might have to be sold to cover its debt. Museum officials have vehemently denied such a possibility. Mr. Krens estimates that after the capital campaign, the endowment will grow to somewhere between $50 million and $60 million. So far, the director said, the museum has repaid about $10 million of its bonds.
The bond issue for the Guggenheim's uptown space did not cover the cost of renovating the three floors in a building at the corner of Broadway and Prince Street that constitute the museum's SoHo branch. As a result of its increased space, the museum's overall budget has gone from about $10 million before the expansions to $25 million.
"The institution has gone through rapid and dramatic change," said Mr. Krens. "We have tried to develop a blueprint for the institution for the year 2000: to change its image from a small, family-supported institution to a public one. That's already happened."
The director plans to use some of the money for expansion outside of New York City. In March 1992, the Guggenheim signed an agreement with the Spanish city of Bilbao for a museum to be built there, run by the Guggenheim and paid for by Bilbao, with art on loan from the Guggenheim's collection. The Bilbao museum, designed by Frank Gehry and being built now, is to open in 1996. And in Venice, the museum has invested more than $7 million in capital improvements to the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, which the museum acquired in 1970.
"We've turned a leaky, drafty private house into one of the best private museums in Italy," Mr. Krens said of the Venice project. In 1989, the Guggenheim acquired a lease on adjacent property and it now has plans to move its gift shop out of the main building and into that space and to open a cafe.
 
Theater Construction
 But Mr. Krens says New York is still the Guggenheim's primary focus. He said the museum was planning to begin construction in the next month or two on a theater under the main rotunda of the Wright building; he estimated the theater would be completed in about a year.
"Raising money in this economy has been harder than I expected," Mr. Krens said. "Both Ron Perelman and Sam LeFrak are New Yorkers, both are committed to the city and this is really a New York story; that's what it's all about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald O. Perelman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MVL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511199 ALL OTHER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) MARVEL ENTERTAINMENT INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: GIFTS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); THEATER (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); LIBRARIES (71%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%); 

PERSON: PERELMAN, RONALD O; VOGEL, CAROL RONALD PERELMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



523 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Here Sheep Count, Day and Night

BYLINE: By SUZANNE SLESIN 

DATELINE: MILAN, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE cast-iron doorstop is in the shape of a ram. The hooked wool seat pads on the dining room chairs depict woolly sheep. There are fleecy sheepskins over the sofa, and a brochure on the desk touts "Herbal Moth Repellents."
The publications around the house include Sheep! Magazine and National Lamb and Wool Grower. And most of the door frames of the 18th-century farmhouse near Milan (pronounced MY-len), about 100 miles north of Manhattan in Dutchess County, New York, are decorated with an array of best-of-show ribbons. 
 It would be hard not to get the point. "Sheep is it," said Margrit Lohrer Pichler, 48, who with her husband, Albrecht, 53, is a full-time Merino sheep farmer. With its 600-head flock, Morehouse Farm, the Pichlers' homestead, is responsible for reintroducing Merino sheep to the region. Merinos are white-faced sheep that produce the finest and most valuable wool in the world.
In the last eight years, Ms. Pichler, who was once a partner in a Manhattan graphic-design firm, slowly started spending more time on the farm, and the couple's sheep mania grew into a way of life. "Now, the sheep take 150 percent of my time," Ms. Pichler said.
It would be hard to imagine a better commercial for wool than sheep that are out in 22-degree-below-zero temperatures. But there was Mr. Pichler with Sage, a border collie, enthusiastically leading his flock through snow-covered fields toward a barn that serves as a stylish shop for pillows and throws, along with sweaters, caps, mittens and scarfs, all knitted by Ms. Pichler or woven by craftsmen in the area. (Ms. Pichler also sells skeins of wool and knitting kits to shops around the country.) Mr. Pichler stopped to show off a group of ewes he called "the teen-age girls." A weekend shepherd, he is an architect who commutes by train to Manhattan, where he designs ski resorts and private homes for -- no kidding -- Robert Lamb Hart, an architectual firm.
Merino sheep have been living in Spain since the Middle Ages. In 18th-century England, George III had a royal flock. "Sheep came to America in Colonial times and have always been a large part of our history, and Merinos were very popular at one time," said Robert Padula of the American Sheep Industry Association in Englewood, Colo. (his title: the farm flock raw wool services director). And Ms. Pichler pointed out that "in 1805, a ram sold for $1,000, a fortune."
But as the demand for lamb increased at the dinner table and the price for wool declined with the introduction of synthetics, Merino sheep fell out of favor. Today, Ms. Pichler said, they are raised mainly in Australia, South Africa and South America. Because they are slow to mature, "the Merino was never the most economical sheep to raise for meat alone," she added.
Janice Grauberger, the communications director at the sheep industry group, said: "There are no more than 50 people around the United States that do what the Pichlers do. They have to do niche marketing to exist."
The Pichlers' hard-won success has come in part from their unusually sophisticated approach to sheep farming, bringing big-city marketing skills to a down-home endeavor. The Pichlers are in some ways the 90's version of back-to-the-earth hippie farmers of the 60's. But this time around, these savvy farmers have developed farm specialties: reduced-fat goat cheese, free-range chickens and organic mesclun.
The Pichlers' approach to life may be envied even by those who would never think about leaving the city. At Morehouse Farm, they have been able to intertwine business acumen and personal passion.
In 1985, they had put their five-year goals on paper: "To be the most important Merino breeder in North America" and "to have a solid reputation for the finest wool in North America."
But Merino sheep, they soon found out, had an image problem. "Whenever we went to fairs and shows," Ms. Pichler said, "we heard Merinos called greasy, dirty, small animals. The image of the Merino was never updated. People were walking around with the image of that little wrinkly dude that was a nightmare to shear."
The Pichlers have what is tantamount to a full-service operation. They breed the sheep, then shear them when they have a year's growth. The wool is sorted on the farm, then washed in Pennsylvania and sent to mills in Canada and Vermont to be spun.
When asked how their interest in sheep took over their lives, the Pichlers say in unison: "We've always loved animals."
Of course, that's the short, and romantic part of the story. The couple had met each other at a party in Manhattan in 1976, and a year later bought the 35-acre farm for country weekends. Soon, they were adding Friday afternoons, and sometimes Monday mornings.
But from the beginning, "our sheep-raising was going to be strictly business," said Ms. Pichler, who was born in Switzerland and came to the United States when she was 16 years old. Now, she and her husband, who was born in Austria and moved to the United States in the 1960's, farm a total of about 200 acres.
"If you have a meat business," Mr. Pichler explained, "you sell for a clear end, but if you raise sheep for wool, it is similar to raising cows for milk."
Who would have known that a New York City chicken would show them the way?
In early 1983, Ms. Pichler found a live chicken in the Riverside Park, across from her office. "We immediately had visions of fresh breakfasts," she said. But the chicken did not lay eggs. And before the couple figured out that the chicken was a rooster, they had bought two more chickens to keep him company at the farm. "That's when we realized we were stuck," Ms. Pichler said. "We decided we might as well get some other farm animals."
So that's how the first sheep, named Bogardus, came to Morehouse Farm. "We decided to name the sheep after all the roads that led to the Taconic," Mr. Pichler said. But after the 10th sheep, the couple ran out of road names. And after 200 sheep, they resorted to numbers.
Right from the beginning, when they bought three ewes and one ram, the couple were struck with what they described as "the big mystery." "If everyone agreed that Merino sheep grow the best wool," Ms. Pichler said, "why weren't there any around?"
"That's why we started thinking about how to market something that no one likes," Ms. Pichler said.
The couple began by buying the fanciest custom-made livestock trailer. "When we showed up at the fairs with our fancy transportation, people really started changing what they thought about the Merinos," Ms. Pichler said.
The Pichlers soon bought more sheep to expand their flock and, through sales to other farmers, to help re-establish the breed. Their sheep started winning competitions. Soon the Pichlers hired representatives to sell the wool, which now retails for $7.70 for a two-ounce skein in yarn shops, compared with more ordinary wool that costs $3 to $5 a skein. Ms. Pichler uses 8 to 12 skeins for a sweater, which will sell for $325 or more in her shop.
"As far as I'm concerned," Ms. Pichler said, "how can you not love a sheep that makes such beautiful wool?"
That seems to make up for all the hard work involved. During the lambing season, Ms. Pichler often stays up most of the night to check on the ewes. And in the next few weeks, 65 ewes are expected to produce about 120 lambs.
Life at Morehouse Farm is "enjoyable," Mr. Pichler said, "but you don't run to the bank with the money."
One sheep can produce 8 to 20 pounds of wool a year. "The rams, who don't have the stress of lambing, tend to be bigger wool producers," Mr. Pichler said. "When a sheep is under severe stress or develops a high fever, the wool stops growing."
The Pichlers, who spend vacations traveling hundreds of miles to county fairs and livestock shows, have immersed themselves in a sheep-centered life. But these days, with a house filled with dogs, cats, parrots and cockateels and with hills dotted with rams and barns crowded with ewes and lambs, the couple say they have reached their limit. Not that they are considering another career change.
Sitting in their sunny dining room last Sunday, between bottle-feeding the just-born lambs that needed a little extra help, Ms. Pichler said, "I plan to be doing this the rest of my natural life and probably during the next one."
Her husband nodded.
"A few days ago, I dreamt a sheep was talking to me," she added. "I woke up and asked myself, 'Now why would a sheep talk to me?' "
Her husband smiled.
"Well, you talk to them," he said. "So there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Albrecht and Margrit Lohrer Pichler at Morehouse Farm, where they sell Merino wool and fabrics.; The hooked rug, below, is by the Pichlers' friend Chris Howell. (pg. C1); Albrecht and Margrit Lohrer Pichler, left, in the dining room of their farmhouse near Milan, N.Y. A flock of ewes and lambs returning to the barn, top. Show ribbons decorating a door frame in the kitchen, above. (pg. C4) (Photographs by Alex McLean for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (71%); ENGLAND (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILAN (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (71%); ENGLAND (66%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; WOOL AND WOOLEN GOODS; SHEEP SHEEP FARMING (90%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (89%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (78%); MEATS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); DOGS (75%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (72%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (68%); BRITISH MONARCHS (64%); SKIING (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); RESORTS (50%); 

PERSON: SLESIN, SUZANNE; PICHLER, ALBERT; PICHLER, MARGRIT LOHRER

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



524 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Central Divisions Are Added to Baseball's Lineup

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Jan. 19

 BODY:
The major league owners, continuing their attempt to change the nature of how baseball is run, redrew another part of the game today. They reached agreement with the players association on the realignment of the leagues from two divisions to three and the addition of an extra tier of playoffs.
Although the changes are guaranteed for only the coming season, the agreement is as historic as the new revenue-sharing plan hammered out between the large- and small-market clubs the night before. For the first time, baseball, heretofore the professional sport with the narrowest, most discriminating playoff field, will allow its two leagues to increase the number of playoff teams from two to four and include baseball's first wild-card berth. 
 Those four advancing clubs will include the three division winners and the team with the best record among non-division winners. The number of playoff teams will total 8, compared with 12 for the National Football League, 16 for the National Basketball Association and 16 for the National Hockey League.
The American and National Leagues enter this season not only with East and West divisions but also with Central divisions.
The new league formats will feature balanced schedules under which each team would play two home series and two road series against each other, regardless of division. That means that in the two divisions that have four teams, the West division in each league, teams would play approximately one-fourth of their games against division opponents.
 
Winner Against Wild Card
 Once in the playoffs, the division winner with the best overall record will play the wild-card team, unless the two teams come from the same division. If they do, the wild-card team will play the division winner with the second-best overall record. The other playoff will take place between the remaining two division winners. Once the three-of-five-game series ends, the four-of-seven-game league championship series will proceed, followed by the four-of-seven-game World Series.
After months of negotiations, the new format finally came about on the final day of the annual meetings here because the owners agreed to financially compensate players using one of several formats put forth by the Major League Baseball Players Association.
"Essentially we have committed to accept the union proposal that the players will receive 80 percent of the gate of the first three games," said Richard Ravitch, the owners' chief labor negotiator, who made the announcement.
But Ravitch pointed out that any agreement on this issue beyond this coming season will have to be negotiated as a part of collective bargaining on a new labor agreement.
 
Tried Different Formats
 The agreement is not based on the union's initial demands. The players had tried various formats, including the shortening of the season as well as a complete restructuring of the entire playoff pool system. The owners adamantly refused to negotiate anything but gate receipts.
Historically, the players have received 60 percent of the gate of the minimum number of games required in the playoffs or World Series.
Though the owners did not initially give in to the players' request, in the end, Ravitch said, "The owners did not feel this was the occasion to have extensive bargaining over relatively small amounts of money. This was not an issue of principle. This is to get on to find points of agreement with the union, to work with them to try to get a more rational economic system in baseball. That's what's important."
Though the new format guarantees more playoff berths for players, Donald Fehr, the union chief, chose once again to temper his enthusiasm for this and other developments the owners announced here this week. Those developments included management's renewed quest for a salary cap.
For the second straight day, Fehr questioned the sincerity of the owners' call for partnership. And he said union officials were somewhat puzzled and surprised that they were not invited to make a joint announcement of an agreement that would not have come about without their approval.
 
'Good for the Game'
 Still, Fehr said of the new system, "We think it's good for the game or we wouldn't have agreed to it."
Whether it lives beyond 1994 remains to be seen. "Nobody's quite sure what the public response will be," Ravitch said. "We will learn a lot from this year. But this is a one-year deal. We will proceed with this without prejudice as to how we will deal with this in the future."
That in itself is a marked turnaround from the original concepts the teams put forth. Just last September, at yet another owners meeting, the 28 clubs passed a resolution calling for a new divisional alignment that would be used for a minimum of four years, or the length of the next bargaining agreement, whichever is longer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (70%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); DALLAS STARS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); DALLAS STARS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); FLORIDA, USA (70%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES; PLAYOFF GAMES; LABOR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); RANKINGS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



525 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Cuomo's Election-Year Budget

 BODY:
All government budgets are political documents, and election-year budgets even more so. Gov. Mario Cuomo's plan for the coming year in New York State was clearly -- critics say cynically -- written with an eye on the campaign. In its optimism, therefore, it is a far cry from the sharp cutbacks of recent recession years.
Inspired by a glimmer of recovery in New York's economy and his newly declared hunger for a fourth term, Mr. Cuomo has sprinkled his proposals with small tax cuts and modest hikes in spending -- a lot of things to please a lot of New Yorkers. 
 But his message is mixed. On the one hand, he shows signs of shifting to the right to woo conservative voters -- for example, by trimming Medicaid benefits. On the other, he acts as if the nascent recovery makes it O.K. to stop looking for ways to take serious cuts in the state bureaucracy; he proposes to cut only 160 jobs.
On taxes, he focuses on cuts he wants the Legislature to approve, particularly cuts in business taxes -- a good step. At last he proposes to phase out the state's 5 percent tax on hotel rooms that cost more than $100 a night. And give him credit for targeting some fees that are especially aggravating to small businesses and simply cannot be justified. One of them is the $25 charge to every employer for a permit to pay employees by check, a holdover from paydays in decades past when a lot of paychecks bounced.
On a larger issue, Mr. Cuomo says now, as he has said in earlier years, that he wants the state to assume full responsibility for Medicaid benefits. But by failing to include funds for such benefits in his budget, he has once again signaled to the Legislature that they are not a priority.
The idea of a state takeover is not new, and was Governor Cuomo's in the first place. Most other states already pay the full freight. New York should, too, as a matter of fairness to overburdened local governments.
Put in a positive light, Mr. Cuomo's omission may be a calculated political strategy to goad New York City's new Republican Mayor, Rudolph Giuliani, to bang on his fellow Republicans in the State Senate, who have blocked this important reform in the past. Clearly, Mr. Giuliani must get in and fight. But so must Mr. Cuomo; his offer to review the matter in 30 days is no substitute for forceful leadership.
Similarly, Mr. Giuliani should work on those same Republicans for further revision in the school aid formula, which is biased toward suburbs (Republican) at the expense of cities (Democratic). But where is Mr. Cuomo? He proposes more state aid for all, but fails to press for needed additional changes in the formula.
It is disappointing that the Governor does not fight harder for overdue reforms he says he supports. But on balance, this budget has some welcome innovations and should challenge the Legislature to repair its defects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial ;

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (56%); K (TSX) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KINROSS GOLD CORP (56%); MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MAYORS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); APPROVALS (67%); CITIES (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (54%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



526 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Law on Cuba Trade Starves the Babies

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I write you as president of the Cuban American Committee for Peace, which has a membership of more than 17,000 Cubans residing in the United States, South America, Spain and Canada. All of us still have family in Cuba. 
 I was appalled by Representative Robert G. Torricelli's Jan. 5 letter, in which he brags of the effects his Cuban "Democracy" Act has had on the Cuban economy. He did not address the effect the decrease of United States subsidiary trade has had in human terms. Of the $718 million in subsidiary trade eliminated by Mr. Torricelli's law, 75 percent has been for food and medicine.
I visit Cuba regularly and have seen a significant change in my family's nutritional status since this law's enactment in 1992. I recently visited my 18-year-old son in Havana, and was disturbed at how thin he and the rest of my relatives have become.
Recently a United States subsidiary based in Canada sought to sell baby food to Cuba. It could not because of the Cuban Democracy Act, which states no United States subsidiary can trade with Cuba. This is what Mr. Torricelli is proud of? We are talking about food for infants, not military weapons. This law is a policy of genocide that seeks to create a Somalia in Cuba.
Mr. Torricelli speaks of democracy's coming to Cuba any day. About a year ago he predicted the Cuban Government would fall in three months.
Average Cubans do not blame their Government for the food and medicine shortages. Rather, they blame the United States embargo. Even human rights dissidents in Cuba like Elizardo Sanchez have spoken out against the Torricelli law. In Cuba, there are 3.5 million children. They are the victims of the Torricelli law.
Mr. Torricelli and other politicians need to start hearing that the climate in the United States is changing. Cuban-Americans are beginning to state that we will no longer allow opportunistic Congressmen like Mr. Torricelli to use a small group of rich, reactionary, Cuban exiles like Jorge Mas Canosa and his Cuban American National Foundation to pursue a policy that brings suffering to our families living in Cuba.
Mr. Torricelli and Mr. Mas Canosa talk of bringing democracy to Cuba, yet the foundation and reactionary groups like Alpha 66 use political harassment and intimidation to silence those who disagree with them. I have received death threats for expressing my belief that the United States should normalize relations with Cuba.
New voices besides ours are being raised in the Cuban-American community -- for instance, Cambio Cubano and the Cuban Committee for Democracy. All of them seek a new policy of dialogue between our two countries. These are the groups to whom Mr. Torricelli should listen.
It is time for this cruel and inhumane embargo to end and for men like Mr. Torricelli to realize that laws like the Cuban Democracy Act are not something of which they should be proud.
 
RAYMUNDO DEL TORO
Linden, N.J., Jan. 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); CANADA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); CANADA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STARVATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (87%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); FAMILY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (74%); DRUG SHORTAGES (69%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (68%); GENOCIDE (65%); NUTRITION (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%); 

PERSON: TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR) ROBERT G TORRICELLI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1994



527 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
After Monday's earthquake, support is growing in Congress for a bill that would require homeowners in California and other earthquake-prone areas to buy earthquake insurance. [Page D1.] 
 Housing starts rose 7.1 percent in 1993 to the highest level in four years. A separate report showed an increase for the week in first-time claims for state unemployment benefits. [D2.]
The Federal Government is expected to announce regulations requiring the seafood industry to keep detailed records of safety procedures and to label shellfish to show where it comes from. [A1.]
 
Companies
Time Warner drew a line in the sand after the Seagram Company increased its stake in the entertainment company to 11.7 percent. The Time Warner board approved a stock plan aimed at preventing Seagram from owning more than 15 percent. [D1.]
Two experts hired by Prudential Securities testified at a Federal court hearing that losses suffered by investors in the brokerage firm's energy partnerships stemmed entirely from an unexpected decline in oil and gas prices. [D3.]
The former chief executive of Eli Lilly who was ousted by the board in June will become vice chairman of Vector Securities International, a small health care investment bank. [D3.]
Shares of AST Research rose more than 15% after the company reported higher-than-expected earnings. [D3.]
Computer Associates International posted a 55 percent gain in earnings, but investors were still disappointed. [D3.]
Apple Computer, undergoing a big transition in its computer product line, said revenue increased 23 percent for the first quarter, but earnings declined 75 percent. [D3.]
 
International
Since 1990, Japan has lost at least $6 trillion from one of the century's steepest plunges in stock and property values. But efforts by the Japanese Government to bolster markets may have caused only more damage to the country's financial system. [D1.]
Insurance has become the latest front in the war of words between the United States and Japan on trade. Japan's insurance industry denied that its market was closed, saying the United States has a more restricted market. [D1.]
The Clinton Administration is seeking to increase the number of American companies selling in Germany. [D2.],
China has agreed to allow American customs officers to inspect its prisons to insure that their factories are not making products for export to the United States. [A1.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks advanced again into record territory, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 7.59 points. [D4.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose on expectations that the Federal Reserve will not tighten credit any time soon. [D12.]
The dollar fell against European currencies after the Bundesbank said it would hold interest rates steady. Gold declined. [D11.]
As temperatures began to rise in the frost-bitten East, prices of heating oil futures fell sharply. [D11.]
Uncovered short sales on the New York Stock Exchange rose 3 percent to a record 1.28 billion shares for the month. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
A group led by Robert Nederlander hopes to use Allis-Chalmers' operating losses to shelter income from acquisitions. One thing is missing, though: first-rate purchases. Market Place. [D1.]
MCI tries to put a human face on technology in a new campaign that features an 11-year-old from New Zealand. Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (67%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (66%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SEAGRAM CO LTD (70%); CA INC (67%); VECTOR SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); HOME PRICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INSURANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); SEAFOOD (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); HEATING OIL (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); HEATING OIL PRICES (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); APPROVALS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); CURRENCIES (66%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



528 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: The $6 Trillion Hole in Japan's Pocket

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Many of the world's financial markets have recovered from a decade of excess in which problems were often measured in billions, or even hundreds of billions, of dollars. But Japan is now coping with an even more awesome debacle: the loss of at least $6 trillion from one of the steepest plunges in stock and property values of this century.
And it is not over yet: the markets are just marking the anniversary of a crash that has sent stock and real estate prices down more than 50 percent, with no clear signs yet of a recovery. 
 The decline offers both insights into the Japanese financial system and puzzles that add to the uncertainty over Japan's troubled economic future. When the markets first began their tumble in early 1990, some analysts predicted that the decline could ripple through financial systems around the globe. Yet with Wall Street and some European markets reaching new highs, those fears have proved overblown. Even in Japan there has rarely been even a hint of panic in the air.
 
 
Delayed Agony
 Nevertheless, analysts say, while the Japanese Government has taken a series of steps to dampen the effects of the crash, those efforts may have only stretched out the problems. To give a sense of the dimensions of the crash, the American savings and loan crisis may end up costing about $350 billion. The third-world debt crisis appears to have cost banks less than $150 billion.
Some economists argue that the heavy-handed means the Japanese Government has used -- such as pouring cash from Government pension funds into the market, pressuring big investors not to sell shares and concealing the full impact of the debacle on banks from the public -- may have staved off an abrupt collapse, but at a huge cost that may undermine the financial system.
Japan's huge commercial banks have been unable to lift the economy out of its recession because they have been so battered by a mounting toll of bad loans. And many companies that poured their extra cash into securities investments in the boom years are now finding it difficult to revive their core industrial businesses because of their weakened financial condition. In addition, the reputation of Japan's respected economic planners has been badly damaged.
"The Government and the Bank of Japan thought we could have a soft landing," said Mikio Wakatsuki, chairman of the Japan Research Institute's board of counselors and until recently the deputy governor for international affairs at the Bank of Japan. "We thought we could make it a painless decline. It was maybe a misjudgment."
Takaaki Wakasugi, a professor of finance at Tokyo University and the University of Michigan said: "In the late 1980's, people were living in a dream. They did not understand reality. Right now, in a sense, we're in a state of chaos because of that."
While things have been surprisingly calm on the surface, the biggest victims of the crash, commercial banks, are likely to be impaired for years, analysts say. Japanese banks have been pulling back from the foreign markets they were attacking just five years ago. And Corporate Japan's overseas shopping spree for landmark commercial buildings, golf courses, Treasury bonds and Hollywood studios, much of it fueled by bank lending, has slammed to a halt.
At home, the banks have undermined their futures by continuing to support, often with loans at nominal interest rates, dozens of companies that became badly overstretched through reckless property and stock speculation in the boom years.
Publicly, Japan's 21 largest banks have declared that they have 13.76 trillion yen, or the equivalent of $123 billion, in loans from which they have received no interest payments for six months or more. But analysts say deliberately fuzzy accounting rules conceal the fact that the banks hold at least $270 billion in bad loans and that the figure is rising.
The banks have been hit in two ways. They frequently take property as collateral for loans. The plunge in real estate prices has meant that the collateral they hold on many bad loans is often worth less than half of the loans' face value.
In addition, the banks have put a significant portion of their capital -- the foundation for their loan growth -- into the shares of their corporate customers. With stock prices having fallen, the banks' capital has tumbled, making it harder for them to lift the economy from its malaise.
As a result, banks have been forced to reconsider their basic philosophy on the sort of collateral they accept for loans. They are starting to focus more, for instance, on the ability of property to produce income, rather than just its current market value. Worried about protecting their fragile loan portfolios, banks have also cut back sharply in lending to smaller companies and to consumers.
 
 
Tending the Home Fires
 Companies, too, have had to adjust to the new reality of deflation in the financial markets. Many companies, for instance, were lured into making huge investments in stocks, property and golf courses; they have now refocused on their core businesses.
Corporate treasurers, who had spent freely -- because raising capital in the stock market was so cheap in the boom years -- are being more tight-fisted about investments in research and new operations.
The property market has been even more severely affected. Not only have commercial property prices plunged more than 50 percent in big cities like Tokyo and Osaka, but almost no transactions are taking place.
To sell land is to realize the loss, so companies are sitting on land or transferring it to affiliated companies at prices that bear little relation to real market conditions.
The result has been a sort of slow-motion crash, defying the expectations of many analysts and economists.
"I thought the stock market had gone too high and that it would adjust, but I never thought it would go this low or last this long," said Yoshihiko Miyauchi, chief executive of the Orix Corporation, Japan's largest leasing and diversified financing company. "This is deflation. We haven't had to deal with this kind of thing before."
 
 
Pushing the Yen Up
 It all began with the growth of Japan's so-called bubble economy during the 1980's. Behind the rise had principally been low interest rates and the booming economy of the United States, where Japan sends a large portion of its exports. In September 1985, the Reagan Administration and Japanese officials agreed to send the value of yen soaring against the dollar to make Japanese products more expensive for foreigners, crimping exports. Foreign-made goods became cheaper in Japan, lifting imports.
In fact, there was a temporary reduction in Japan's surpluses, but the shock was a catastrophe for Japanese exporters. They could adjust to a stronger yen, but they needed time, and they needed to make huge investments to improve their efficiency.
The solution was steep reductions in interest rates by the Bank of Japan. Companies did make productive investments -- in fact, they overinvested, building more factory capacity than either the domestic or foreign markets could absorb. And the policy also set off a speculative orgy by flooding the markets with cash.
As investors bid stock prices higher, companies raised record sums by selling new shares: 8.85 trillion yen, or $62 billion worth, in 1989 alone.
The Government finally recognized the artificial nature of the market's rise and the possibility of an uncontrolled collapse, and began trying to ratchet down the market by the second half of 1989. The Bank of Japan began to raise its discount rate, and in the first week of 1990 investors got the message.
In the first two years of the market plunge, stock and property prices lost 611.7 trillion yen in value, or nearly $4.9 trillion, according to the Economic Planning Agency.
 
Market Is Down 51%
 But prices did not drop in a chaotic fury, for the most part. They just went into a sickeningly steep slide as trading volume dried up.
 Since then, it has gradually become impossible for companies to raise fresh capital by selling new shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Even after a recent uptick, the Nikkei index of 225 leading stocks has fallen 51 percent from its peak of 38,915.87.
Publicly, Government officials pledged fidelity to the principles of free-market economics. But it soon became clear that the Finance Ministry had ordered various Government pension funds to pour money into the stock market starting in 1992. Still, the market fell.
"Officially, of course, the Ministry of Finance denies their intervention, but now they have a very big problem on their hands," said Nobuhiko Matsuno, the former head of the ministry's securities bureau and now senior executive director of the Japan Development Bank. "The financial system is very fragile."
It also became clear that the Finance Ministry had been behind another aspect of the boom, the flood of capital Japanese companies sent overseas. The ministry had informally encouraged these investments, in part to relieve concern overseas about Japan's trade surpluses.
 The huge purchases of United States Treasury securities by insurance companies were intended to earn good will by helping the Treasury finance the Federal budget deficits. Those purchases were also regarded as a form of assistance to President Bush's 1988 election campaign by helping to keep American interest rates down; President Bush was regarded by the Japanese Government as less inclined toward protectionism than his Democratic opponent, Michael S. Dukakis.
"We asked life insurance companies to continue to buy U.S. bonds, especially right before the election," said Mr. Wakatsuki, the former Bank of Japan official. "There was a lot administrative guidance. It was unfortunate."
That enormous outflow of what is known as long-term capital abruptly reversed course and turned into an inflow in the early 1990's as banks and other investors pulled back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Aug. 10, 1992, traders on the floor of the Tokyo Stock Exchange watched as the Nikkei index of 225 issues moved below 15,000. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Tokyo's Troubling Slide" shows weekly closes of the Nikkei index of 225 stocks, except latest. (sources: Datastream, Tokyo Stock Exchange)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; ; JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REAL ESTATE; CORPORATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); BANK FAILURES (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



529 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Starts of Housing Soar; Jobless Claims Also Rise

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Builders broke ground in 1993 on the largest number of new homes in four years, the Government said today, reflecting a pickup in the economy. But a separate report on first-time unemployment claims suggested that getting a job remained difficult.
Low-interest mortgages and higher consumer confidence encouraged builders to break ground on a total of 1.29 million new homes last year, an increase of 7.1 percent, the Commerce Department said. 
 In December alone, home construction jumped 6.2 percent from the previous month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.54 million new homes, suggesting that an even stronger housing market lies ahead.
"There's no question that the housing sector is in the midst of a major expansion," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities.
 
 
Decline for the Northeast
 In the Western region, which has been struggling to emerge from recession, housing starts jumped 14.7 percent in December to an annual rate of 374,000 units, compared with 326,000 units in November.
 Only the Northeast reported a decline in starts last month, falling 3.5 percent, to 138,000 units.
Last year's total housing starts were at the highest level since 1.38 million units in 1989.
Robert Davis, economist for the Savings and Community Bankers of America, said he expected the December home building pace to continue at least into the second quarter, especially since building permits were up a strong 7.4 percent last month to an annual rate of 1.48 million.
"This is going to be the best year of the recovery cycle, even if it is still a muted recovery," he said.
A robust housing market is a boon to economic growth because it spurs the manufacture of building materials, gives a lift to the home furnishings industry and provides thousands of new factory, construction and finance jobs.
 
 
Spike in Jobless Claims
 But a separate report on labor market conditions cast a pall over the rosy housing outlook.
The Labor Department said today that first-time claims for state unemployment benefits climbed 23,000 in mid-January to 380,000 -- the highest level in six months.
This pushed the average claims rate for the last four weeks up to 346,750 for the week that ended Saturday, from 334,250 the previous week.
The four-week average, which smooths out weekly volatility and is therefore considered a more reliable indicator of job trends, has been inching upward for the last month.
Economists say the jobless figures are skewed in part because the holidays late last year and early this year caused the closing of state offices where unemployed workers file for benefits. Bad weather can also make it more difficult for applicants to go to the offices.
"Between the middle of December and the end of January, these numbers are all over the place, and you can't really draw any conclusions from them," said Cynthia Latta of DRI/McGraw-Hill.
Still, the weekly claims data serve to underline how hard hit the jobs market has been by corporate restructurings, muting the pace of recovery, said Gary Ciminero, chief economist of Fleet Financial Group.
"It certainly is not going to be a normal-paced employment recovery," he said. "It hasn't been since March 1991 and it won't be now."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" shows new private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions from July 1992-Dec. 1993. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); SAVINGS & COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); SAVINGS & COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMMUNITY BANKS (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



530 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Debating Sale Of the Sports Authority

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman opened the door today to selling off the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, owner of the Byrne Arena and Giants Stadium among other things, as a way of reducing the state's liability for debt and curbing the power of one of the state's most far-reaching independent authorities.
She added that her administration had already begun preliminary talks with potential buyers. 
 "There are a number of those, who are involved with professional sports, who have indicated an interest in being part of the privatization effort," she said. Nationally, very few major professional sports stadiums or arenas are in private hands, and there is wide variation in the financial health of those that are.
As Governor, Mrs. Whitman ultimately controls the board of the Sports Authority and can veto its decisions. Selling the stadium, race tracks and arena would presumably require legislative approval for the disposal of public assets. But officials of the authority said that its $870 million in bonded debt was tightly controlled by bondholder covenants and bond trustees, making it hard to pay the bonds off before maturity.
That figure includes debt for construction of the Atlantic City Convention Center, the rebuilding and expansion of Rutgers Stadium, and funds for the Meadowlands sports complex.
A buyer of the sports complex would have to retire about $450 million in bonded debt for its arena, stadium and race track.
 
Many Overlapping Debts
 Since the authority's debt was revised in 1992, each site in its holdings no longer has its own separate bonded debt, but is covered under multiple overlapping bond issues. It would be difficult to separate an arena here, a stadium there, for separate sale at different times.
John Samerjan, the Authority's chief spokesman, said the authority would not comment directly on the question of selling the sports complex, but he added that the authority members would naturally cooperate with the Governor in her inquiries.
Mrs. Whitman's thinking on the sale, she indicated, still focuses more on questions than on answers.
"We are interested in knowing: What are the possibilities of selling the arena and selling the stadium?" she said. "What is the status of the bonds, what needs to be done in order to accomplish that, to insure that the state sees the revenues to pay off the bonds associated with the original construction costs?"
 
Toronto Sets Example
 There is only one modern example of a municipality's selling a major professional sports venue: when Toronto last year sold the Skydome, home of baseball's Blue Jays and Canadian Football League's Argonauts, to a private investment group. The sale price was nominal -- "pennies on the dollar," said Robert Baade, a Lake Forest College economist, who said Toronto was motivated less by immediate need than by a desire to avoid future liabilities.
Governor Whitman has been a critic of the authority since it refinanced its debt in 1992, partly to raise money for a new Atlantic City Convention Center. It led to a $17 million annual subsidy from the state, which is likely to increase with work on the Convention Center this year.
During her campaign for governor, Mrs. Whitman spoke of curbing the power of the state's many operating authorities, and she has specifically discussed "privatizing" New Jersey's professional sports infrastructure. Her comments this afternoon came after she announced four new appointments to the authority's 13-member board, which owns and operates the Meadowlands Race Track and the Monmouth Park Race Track in Oceanport, as well as Giants Stadium and Byrne Arena.
 
Jets and Maybe Yankees
 The agency also built the State Aquarium in Camden, and is rebuilding Rutgers Stadium in Parsippany.
The authority successfully lured the New York Jets to Giants Stadium, and there were talks involving the office of the former Governor, Jim Florio, and George Steinbrenner about moving the New York Yankees to northern New Jersey. The agency lost a vote at referendum in 1987 that would have publicly financed a baseball stadium in the Meadowlands.
"Absolutely," the Governor replied when she was asked whether her instructions to the new sports authority members included a mandate to study the sale of authority assets.
The new Governor dismissed the suggestion that she was still angry about how Mr. Florio, in his last weeks in office, overrode her objections and signed a two-year contract extension for Robert E. Mulcahy, president of the authority. He will be paid $175,000 a year.
The authority was created in 1971 to build the Meadowlands Race Track; the stadium, completed in 1976, and the arena, built in 1981. Until the mid-1980's, revenues from the race track paid the development costs of both the stadium and the arena, but the rise of casino gambling in Atlantic City drew gambling dollars away from the horses.
 
Taxpayers Brought In
 When refinancing was explored, it was found that the authority no longer had the combination of assets and cash flow to support the new bonds, and the state was brought in.
Public authorities have many critics in New York and New Jersey; conservatives in particular call them tools by governors and legislatures to incur public debt without obtaining constitutionally required ballot approvals from the public.
Although it cannot refinance its debt by itself, the agency is still in the black, according to its financial statement for 1992, the latest available. It took in $197 million that year, with expenses of $160.7 million, before taxes and debt interest. It paid $24.5 million in debt interest, and $3.8 million in payments instead of taxes to the state and municipalities.
As a public agency, the authority may not make a profit, but must distribute any money left over from expenses to retire debt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman holding a news conference yesterday in Trenton with Assemblyman Robert Shinn, her nominee as head of the Department of Environmental Protection and Energy, after they held a round-table meeting on state environmental concerns. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TSA (NYSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY SPORTS AUTHORITY INC (56%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; ; UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRIVATIZATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); BONDS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BASEBALL (73%); APPROVALS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (71%); BOND ISSUES (67%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PETERSON, IVER; SHINN, ROBERT C (ASSEMBLYMAN) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



531 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: At Center Of Storm With Cars In Tow

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Through a blur of 12-and 16-hour days this week, Dave Sandstrom has witnessed just about every variation of what arctic air and ice can do to the internal combustion engine and the human spirit.
He's seen people deliriously grateful to see him and his green-and-white tow-truck, and others so angry or cold that they'll yell even at their would-be savior. He's jump-started an array of batteries, fixed flats while the owner cowered indoors, opened and closed ice-fused door locks, and learned to diagnose a frozen fuel line with the first sputtering cough of the engine. 
 Mr. Sandstrom, a 24-year-old with a thin mustache, a shy smile, and two sweatshirts under his coat, is one of the small army of tow-truck drivers plying streets and highways as cold weather continues in the region and much of the nation. Like the demand for electricity and extra blankets, Mr. Sandstrom's overwork is yet another barometer of the cold snap's grip: cars that decline to go.
"It's the winter from hell," said Steve McNeish, the manager of automotive service at the American Automobile Association's Hartford affiliate.
 
A New Record of Misery
 At the Automobile Club of New York, the AAA affiliate that serves New York City and some of its suburbs, a 10-year-old one-day record of 9,000 calls was broken with 10,000 requests for help. A club serving central New Jersey recorded triple its normal volume.
Here in Hartford, where the AAA club dispatches 246 trucks in central Connecticut, an all-time record fell on Tuesday with 1,700 calls, then was shattered again on Wednesday, when about 2,000 motorists cried for help, half of them with dead batteries.
For Mr. Sandstrom, who moved back to his home state of Connecticut from Florida just six weeks ago, the pace has meant postponed meals, lost sleep, and -- far from the least of his troubles -- cold feet.
"Steel-toed boots," he said, sliding behind the wheel of tow-truck alpha-six and blasting the heater against the sub-zero chill just before dawn this morning. "Once the steel gets cold, they never warm up."
Like the cars themselves.
"Colder than Russia!" said an enthusiastic Ludmila Gooper, an immigrant from Ukraine who was one of Mr. Sandstrom's early-morning customers. Ms. Gooper got a flat tire on Wednesday night, she said, and damaged the wheel by driving on it because she couldn't bear the thought of getting out and finding another way home.
 
After Neglect, Cars Protest
 Christine Powers, another stranded rush-hour commuter, said she believed the cold weather was sending a message to her through her wounded Saab.
"It's telling me it wants to move to Florida," she said, looking at her silent and unstartable car, as Mr. Sandstrom attached the claw hooks to the rear wheels this morning in West Hartford. Ms. Powers said she relied on her friends for rides as her car has staggered through the last few weeks, starting, then not starting. "It's a mixture of a cold thing and car thing," she said.
Mr. Sandstrom's boss, Eddie Hohl, owner of Eddie's Evergreen Mobil, said he believes this cold snap has hit cars harder because owners aren't keeping up on maintenance the way they used to. With the recession still biting hard, people are putting off things like tuneups and winterizing, he said, and the result -- when the wind chill is at 30 below and the pressure is on -- is that more carburetors flood and more batteries give up the ghost.
 
Little Patience
 But don't tell that to Joe Parent. Mr. Parent, a 70-year-old West Hartford resident, bought a new battery just last week when the old one died of the cold. This morning, however, his sky-blue 1977 Ford Maverick was again going nowhere, and again a tow-truck was pulling to his door for a jump-start.
"You're much better than the last guy," he said to Mr. Sandstrom.
Some motorists, apparently, will have nothing to do with a car that can't take the cold. One woman, who declined to give her name, insisted that her car be towed away this morning even though it would start perfectly well and the only problem was a door that would not latch shut. She said she feared getting into an accident and flying out.
Mr. Sandstrom argued, briefly and tentatively, that her mechanic -- not at the Evergreen garage -- would probably move the car indoors and the mechanism would thaw by itself. But to no avail. Take it away, she said. Mr. Sandstrom obliged.
"The customer is always right," he said, climbing into the cab.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (83%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (92%); UKRAINE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; ; UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (92%); UKRAINE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; AUTOMOBILES; ICE; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (77%); ROADSIDE SERVICES (76%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); WEATHER (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (68%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); 

PERSON: SANDSTROM, DAVE; JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



532 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Are Up for Treasury Issues

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Prices of Government securities rose yesterday on expectations that the Federal Reserve will not move to tighten credit any time soon.
In December, investors were concerned that the Fed would increase short-term interest rates. But since the release of December employment data on Jan. 7, the market has increasingly seen near-term Fed tightening of credit as more unlikely. "Maybe by April, the market will be back on alert," said Matthew F. Alexy, a Government trading specialist at CS First Boston, referring to the swings in investors' expectations. 
 The 30-year bond rose 12/32 yesterday, to 9926/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.26 percent, from 6.29 percent on Wednesday.
 
 
Interest in Shorter Maturities
 Buying was strong in shorter maturities yesterday, traders said. Rates on bills with shorter maturities declined modestly. The three-month bill fell 3 basis points, to 2.93 percent, and the six-month bill fell 2 basis points, to 3.08 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The supply of Treasury securities and the market's ability to absorb it drew investors' attention yesterday before next week's Treasury sale of $25.2 billion in bills and $29 billion in two-year and five-year notes. The Government will also announce next week the size of its 52-week bill auction. On Feb. 2, it will disclose the size of its quarterly refunding, which some market participants believe will be about $40 billion.
In when-issued trading before next week's auctions, the two-year notes were offered at a price to yield 4.08 percent, down 6 basis points from the previous day, and the five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 5.03 percent, down 7 basis points.
The impact of a stronger-than-expected housing report was lessened by a surge in weekly jobless claims. The Commerce Department said housing starts rose 6.2 percent in December, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.54 million new home s. Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose to 380,000 in the week that ended Saturday, the highest since the week of July 24 last year, when claims were 395,000.
Some dealers were suspicious of the surge in jobless claims, citing the measure's volatility as a reason for caution. "I don't believe anyone views today's jobless claims as indicative to what is going on out there," one trader said. Some economists said the jump in first-time claims was linked to seasonal quirks and did not reveal a sudden weakening in the labor market.
Mr. Alexy of CS First Boston said, "We had a couple of elements in balance yesterday -- a strong December housing figure on one hand and on the other some signs of a bit of cooling in labor activity, either the result of year-end factors or weather conditions."
"As a result, the housing numbers neutralized the impact of the jobless claims," he said.
 
Regional Manufacturing
 Another bit of economic data released yesterday, the Philadelphia Fed index, a measure of regional manufacturing activity, showed a retreat to 34.2 in January from 42.9 in December. A surge of business activity in December took the index to its highest level since 1983, analysts say. Although the January reading was lower, it was nonetheless among the highest readings in almost 10 years, indicating continued improvement in the manufacturing sector.
Mr. Alexy said the significance of the Philadelphia Fed report is its reading of first-quarter activity rather than fourth-quarter growth. "Consequently, the data on January economic activity tend to carry a higher weight with the market than fourth-quarter activity," he said.
Mr. Alexy said investors holding significant amounts of cash would move out of shorter-term bills to invest in higher yields in the intermediate maturities, given a three-month window of opportunity before the Fed takes action.
 The nation's severe weather conditions caused the Federal Reserve Board and other Government agencies in Washington to close yesterday. The release of regularly scheduled Fed figures on the monetary and reserve aggregates was also delayed.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from Oct. 1993-Jan. 1994. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



533 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Intentions of Bundesbank Depress Value of the Dollar

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar weakened against European currencies yesterday on speculation that Germany's central bank will be slow to cut interest rates.
Gold prices declined sharply. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery fell $4.80 an ounce, to $387.90. Traders said gold was set for a correction after recent gains. 
 The dollar bounced around in jittery trading, rising and falling as the Bundesbank released new information on its short-term monetary policy for Germany.
The bank's announcement that it would hold official interest rates steady initially put pressure on the dollar. Higher German rates make assets denominated in marks more attractive than investments in dollars.
The dollar was hit with another blow when the Bundesbank said it would distribute money-market liquidity at a fixed rate of 6 percent over the next two weeks, the same rate that has held since November.
Many traders had hoped that the bank would permit variable-rate tenders, which may have allowed interest rates to fall.
Further confusing currency markets was a Bundesbank move to lower reserve requirements, which would normally increase liquidity and depress interest rates. But the bank later said it would manage rate changes with its weekly money tenders.
"The Bundesbank made a very smart move," said Joseph Cambria, foreign exchange manager at Banque Paribas. The bank's actions allow it to inject more money into the economy while keeping rates high, he said.
In late New York trading, the dollar fell to 1.7375 marks, from 1.7462 marks on Wednesday.
The dollar showed little movement against the Japanese yen, with most dealers sidelined before a meeting Sunday of Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokowa and Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii of Japan. In New York, the dollar slipped to 111.37 yen from 111.43 yen.
The British pound closed in New York at $1.4975, up from $1.4925 on Wednesday.
Other late dollar rates, compared with Wednesday's quotes, included: 1.4555 Swiss francs, down from 1.4610; 5.9110 French francs, down from 5.9340, 1.3109 Canadian dollars, down from 1.3113, and 1,696 Italian lire, down from 1,700.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK BANQUE PARIBAS (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; ; GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



534 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: FIGURE SKATING;
Prosecutors Weigh Moves After Arrest Of Gillooly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 20

 BODY:
District attorneys from Oregon and Michigan met here today to discuss where and how to proceed against four men charged in the assault on the figure skater Nancy Kerrigan as a Multnomah County grand jury met to hear evidence in the case.
The full extent of the grand jury's work was unclear. But among those who appeared were Al Harding, the father of Tonya Harding, Kerrigan's skating rival, and Diane Rawlinson, Harding's skating coach. 
 "We are continuing to look into this case," said Norman W. Frink, a deputy district attorney for the county.
The grand jury's work came on a day when prosecutors were considering how much more evidence they might be able to find. With Harding's former husband, Jeff Gillooly, among those charged, and with grounds to believe he has implicated her in the assault, the prosecutors could try to focus on him or use leverage to gain any direct evidence he might have against his former wife, who has not been charged. The couple was divorced last August but continued to live together until Harding declared on Tuesday that they were separating again.
 
No Federal Charges
 Both have denied involvement in the case, but Gillooly, who is 26 years old and unemployed, and three other men have each been charged with one count of criminal conspiracy to commit assault, a felony that under Oregon sentencing guidelines carries a maximum of three years in jail and a fine of $200,000. The United States Attorney in Portland, Jack C. Wong, said today that he did not expect any Federal charges against the men.
A conviction for anyone without a criminal record, like Gillooly, on the conspiracy charge in Oregon could often result in his serving the full term, minus up to 20 percent of the time for good behavior, said Andrejs I. Eglitis, the senior Deputy District Attorney for Oregon's Clackamas County. Eglitis, who is not involved in this case, said the fine is rarely applied.
Michael Schwartz, a criminal defense lawyer in Detroit, said that the stiffest penalty under Michigan law for such an assault for a first offense in which there was not permanent injury was most likely to be 18 to 24 months. He said offenders there often are given probation and no jail time.
Because of the attack, which happened on Jan. 6 in Detroit, Kerrigan was unable to perform in the national championships, an event Harding went on to win. Since then, all four of the men charged in the case have spoken to Federal investigators, who say that all but Gillooly have confessed.
One of the men, Shawn E. Eckardt, told authorities that Gillooly had told him Harding had twice called the skating rink on Cape Cod where Kerrigan trains to learn when she would be practicing. The authorities say their evidence shows that the times were sought so that another man charged, Shane M. Stant, could carry out the assault.
Investigators say they have telephone logs that show four calls were made to the rink from the Gillooly-Harding residence during the time in question.
When Stant could not find an opportunity, he traveled to Detroit and carried out the assault, the investigators say. They say he has admitted this in a confession.

 
 
Eckardt Implicates Harding

 
 According to Eckardt's confession, Gillooly implicated Harding. Harding's lawyer has already stated that Eckardt has a reputation for embellishing events. These two sides had even more to dispute after an interview with Eckardt appeared today in The Oregonian newspaper of Portland.
In recalling a conversation at the Clackamas Town Center Ice Rink, where Harding generally trains around midnight, Eckardt said in the interview that Gillooly told him Harding had given him permission to spend $6,500 to carry out the assault. Eckardt said Harding approached him and said she was "disappointed that these guys weren't able to do what they said they were going to do. And why hasn't it happened yet?"

 
 
Not in Statement of Evidence
 The official version of events as recounted by the authorities included no reference to such a conversation. Robert C. Weaver Jr., the lawyer representing Harding, said that he had been aware of everything Eckardt had said about his client to the authorities, including the conversation at the rink. However, he declined to characterize how the statements could affect her legal position.
Harding, 23, met with investigators on Tuesday for nearly 11 hours and emerged clinging to her denials. Weaver said she has resumed training and "is skating remarkably well."
It remained unclear whether prosecutors had any additional information about Harding. Two law-enforcement officials close to the case said they expected Gillooly's lawyer, Ronald H. Hoevet, would eventually discuss a plea bargain with the authorities. But Ellen Daniels, Hoevet's assistant, said that no conversations have been held with the Multnomah County District Attorney's office.
Weaver said the next step in the case would be the indictment of the four men, which would come next week if a grand jury is convinced enough evidence exists to proceed.
Also, prosecutors are deciding whether they have better cases against the men in Portland or Detroit.
Vote on Harding Called Off
The United States Figure Skating Association retreated Thursday from a previous statement by a top official that a vote would be taken next week by the association's 45-member international committee on whether Harding should remain on the Olympic team. Claire Ferguson, the association's president, who told of the balloting plan on Tuesday, said that no vote is scheduled at this point.
"Right now, we don't have anything to base a recall vote or a vote of confidence on," said James Disbrow, chairman of the skating association's international committee. "If something requiring us to take a vote breaks, we'll take a vote."


 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; MICHIGAN; DETROIT (MICH); ; UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; ASSAULTS ; CONSPIRACY, CRIMINAL WINTER SPORTS (92%); ICE SKATING (92%); GRAND JURY (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); FELONIES (78%); SENTENCING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); PROBATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); CRIMINAL FINES (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (65%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: HARDING, TONYA; KERRIGAN, NANCY; GILLOOLY, JEFF; HARDING, AL; RAWLINSON, DIANE; JANOFSKY, MICHAEL NANCY KERRIGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



535 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
Bourque, at 33, Is Still Mr. Defense

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
Ray Bourque will probably still be a Boston Bruin when the team leaves Boston Garden for its new arena in 1995. It only seems as if Bourque was playing when the old barn opened in 1928.
Now 33 years old and a 15-year veteran, Bourque is in Manhattan for the National Hockey League All-Star weekend. He will appear in Madison Square Garden tomorrow in his 13th midseason classic, where he is the career leader in assists with 10. 
 Today he is likely to excel once again in the puck-shooting segment of the skills competition.
"I've won it three of the last four years," said Bourque, a smile spreading across his craggy facial features under bushy eyebrows and a bristly haircut. "The pressure will be on me this year."
Over the weekend, some of Bourque's Eastern Conference teammates and Western Conference rivals probably will ask him for his autograph or for a souvenir stick.
"There's a lot of things that one exchanges," said Bourque, who might do some swapping himself. "The odd jersey. Some sticks. It's a time to get a lot of stuff autographed by a lot of the top players."
As the league takes its midwinter break, Bourque still remains one of its top stars and best ambassadors, one of the classiest members of the senior class. He leads all defensemen in points with 53 on 13 goals and 40 assists this season.
Off the ice, Bourque's resume begins with family values and ends with charity work. In a sense, Bourque's understated elegance is appropriate for this thus-far uneventful season, filled with too many games ending with score lines like Florida 3, Anaheim 2.
"Ray understands that he is a role model as a superstar and he takes pride in it," said Gord Roberts, another one of Boston's veteran defensemen. "He's the kind of a guy who leans out the bus window to sign that last autograph."
Mike Milbury, Boston's assistant general manager, said Bourque "knows right from wrong and how a player should conduct himself both on and off the ice. He has earned the respect of his teammates and of his colleagues around the league. He loves coming to the rink."
Bourque is from St. Laurent, a working-class suburb of Montreal. His mother died from cancer when he was 12 and his father struggled financially. "The family was poor as church mice," said Steve Freyer, Bourque's agent.
Lise Desmarais, Bourque's older sister, said she still lives in the old neighborhood and neighbors come to her and her husband "if they have a need to see Raymond" about their problems or requests. One such recent case was a young hockey player whose father died from cancer. His coach brought the boy to the Forum to meet Bourque.
"Ray told him 'I know how you feel,' " said James Desmarais, Bourque's brother-in-law. Lise Demarais said the Bourque family grew up in an apartment house on Crevier Street that had eight units and 54 children stacked from floor to ceiling in bunk beds.
 
A Messy Signing
 In St. Laurent, a slice of fried bologna served on Saturday night is called "Crevier Steak." It's meat for families having a good week financially.
"We weren't from a rich background," said Bourque's sister. "My mother lost a few babies and there were a few handicaps. And five of us are alive, healthy and strong."
Bourque signed a new contract last fall, but the signing was preceded by an unpleasant salary arbitration with the Bruins' general manager, Harry Sinden, the first such confrontation of Bourque's career. Bourque lost and was awarded $2.25 million, instead of the $4.25 million he requested.
"It was extremely painful and very difficult," said Freyer, Bourque's agent. "Harry Sinden was on a crusade to protect his salary structure and to make a statement to the league that someone had to draw the line in the sand. We kept our mouths shut and let Harry do his end-zone dance."
 
Might Be a Bargain
 When feelings calmed down and negotiations resumed, Sinden and Bourque settled on a five-year, $12.5 million deal that saved face for both sides. The length is flattering for an athlete older than most of his colleagues, and perhaps a wise investment for Sinden; Bourque might be a bargain in five seasons, if market prices keep increasing.
Perhaps this is why he works to keep what he has earned. Because of off-ice conditioning in the summer, Bourque remains in top shape, still playing about 30 minutes each game. He has won the Norris trophy as the league's best defenseman four times and is a top contender this season.
Roberts said Bourque has talked to him about the two Stanley Cup rings Roberts earned while playing in Pittsburgh. Bourque would like one, too, although it's not quite an obsession. Milbury, a former player and coach, has had similar conversations with Bourque.
"He knows it's a very elusive thing, and that a lot of it is fate and luck," Milbury said.
"I don't lose sleep over it," Bourque said.
"But, obviously, it's something I'd love to have," he added. "It's the one thing lacking in my career so far. I'm always optimistic that, every year we go into, I always hope and I always think that we are going to have a good shot to get there. I take care of myself. I do a lot of working out in the summer time and it pays off. I really love the game. I think that's the big thing. I really enjoy myself and I think it shows up in my play."
 
A Master at Work
 It certainly does, along with many other things. To focus on Bourque for an entire game is to witness and enjoy a blend of energy, savvy and skills of the highest order. Such a game was played Wednesday night in Montreal, a 3-3 tie. Only eight seconds after the opening faceoff, Bourque took the puck at his own blue line and suddenly fired it more than 100 feet at the Montreal net. Goalie Patrick Roy of Montreal had to react quickly to block the surprise shot.
On defense, Bourque frequently broke up Canadiens' passing combinations with interceptions and, with one economical motion, he would sweep the puck away with passes that started attacks in the other direction. Such moments drew murmurs of admiration from the hockey sophisticates in the Forum.
In Boston's attacking zone, Bourque sees the wide angles well, finding teammates like Joe Juneau with long passes and picking his spots to jump deep from the blue line toward the net. Against Montreal, he helped create Cam Neely's power-play goal with a pass to Juneau. When protecting his own goalie, Bourque has the knack of holding, hooking and shoving opposing forwards just long enough to nullify the danger but not long enough to get penalized.
Kirk Muller, one of Montreal's power forwards, was frequently frustrated by Bourque's tactics, but not bitter.
"He's very strong on his skates, you can't bump him off the puck, you've got to battle him all the time," Muller said. "He uses his strength and he's smart about it and he can hold you off without getting those penalties. He's having a great year. Sometimes he controls the game even now. Players admire his durability and his consistency."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At 33 years old, Ray Bourque remains one of the N.H.L.'s leading stars and best ambassadors. (pg. B9); Ray Bourque, who has won the puck-shooting segment of the skills competition in three of the last four years, is seeking another victory. (pg. B11) (Rick Stewart/Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); BOSTON BRUINS MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); BOSTON BRUINS (59%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); BOSTON BRUINS NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); BOSTON BRUINS (59%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; ALL-STAR GAMES WINTER SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); FAMILY (69%); CHARITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BOURQUE, RAY; LAPOINTE, JOE

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



536 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Reported to Balk at Inspection Terms

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 20

 BODY:
In a setback for Clinton Administration hopes that inspectors would soon be heading into North Korea's nuclear complex, the International Atomic Energy Agency said today that North Korea had rejected inspection procedures the agency says it must carry out to determine if nuclear weapons are being developed.
The inspections of seven sites were agreed upon in principle last month by the United States and North Korea, and several weeks ago the State Department said it expected a final agreement with the agency in just a few days. Instead, a standoff has developed over just how extensive an inspection North Korea will allow. 
 In an interview today, Michael McCurry, the State Department spokesman, said the United States fully supported the agency in its discussions with North Korea. "If the I.A.E.A. is unhappy, we are unhappy," he said.
He said that if North Korea did not agree to specific arrangements with the agency, then Washington would not agree to new high-level talks that Pyongyang wants to improve relations.
Mr. McCurry added that without an agreement, the Administration "will have to look for alternative means of resolving this dispute," specifically, asking the United Nations to impose economic sanctions.
More than a week ago the agency, an arm of the United Nations, submitted to North Korea a list of sites it would need to visit. Inspectors have been barred from some sites for a year; cameras installed to monitor activity have run out of film at many others.
North Korea has replied that "there were a significant number of measures on the list that will not be allowed," said David Kyd, the agency's spokesman in Vienna.
Mr. Kyd said Hans Blix, the director general of the agency, had made it clear to North Korea that "this is not a negotiation." He said the agency would not back down on any of the items on its inspection list.
"We told them that we will not send an inspection team unless there is full agreement," Mr. Kyd said. "We had thought there would be a crinkle or two, but this is substantial."
The United States has said that if North Korea permits the inspections to go forward and reopens its dialogue with South Korean officials, then Washington and Pyongyang could move to broader discussions about diplomatic ties and aid. But it has also said that any inspection plan would have to satisfy the atomic energy agency.
So far that has not happened.
One official said North Korea gave permission to visit all seven sites, but objected to many of the procedures the agency insisted on, especially with regard to a five-megawatt nuclear reactor and a small plant that converts fuel rods into plutonium.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Clinton Insists on Compliance
 WASHINGTON, Jan. 20 (Reuters) -- President Clinton said tonight that it was clear North Korea was trying to develop a nuclear weapon and that he would keep up pressure to make North Korea honor a nuclear treaty.
Mr. Clinton, appearing on the CNN program "Larry King Live," said Washington would remain "very firm about not wanting Korea to join the family of nuclear states."
"We're working as hard as we can to be as firm as we can" to persuade North Korea to admit inspectors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; ; UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



537 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Rebellion in Mexico Is Putting the Heat on Salinas

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Accustomed to battling inflation, not insurrection, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari and the inner circle of advisers who helped him rebuild the economy are struggling to extinguish the rebellion in Chiapas and avoid a political crisis that could imperil his party's hold on Mexico.
The fighting in southern Mexico may have stopped for now, but with 2,000 armed rebels still hidden in the rain forest, newspapers, business people, intellectuals and ordinary citizens are asking why the shooting started and how to keep it from happening again. 
 Did Mr. Salinas's almost single-minded focus on economic changes like privatizing state-owned businesses, holding down salaries to reduce inflation from more than 150 percent to single digits, and signing the North American Free Trade Agreement lead him to ignore -- or worse, cause -- social unrest of the type that exploded in Chiapas State as the year began?
Were the administration's technocrats, trained in United States universities and expert in macroeconomics, too aloof from ordinary people to hear their complaints?
 
'Things Have to Change'
 Did the governing party's unwillingness to run clean elections and share political power lead the indigenous people to take up arms in a desperate attempt to bring about change?
Uneasiness with the current system of Government existed before the uprising, but the violence seems to have intensified feelings. Sergio Aguayo, a member of the Mexican Academy of Human Rights, said the Chiapas uprising had left many Mexicans feeling a profound moral ambivalence.
"Nobody wants violence," Mr. Aguayo said, "but we all realize things have to change, and they have to change fast."
Television shots of dead rebels are a public relations nightmare for Mr. Salinas, who has spent much of the last five years building a new image of Mexico as a modern, free country. But more important is what image prevails on Aug. 21 when the governing party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, tries to retain the presidency it has controlled since 1929.
Mr. Salinas himself is prohibited by the Constitution from running again, but the party's candidate -- selected by the President -- is so closely identified with him that political analysts here believe that damage to Mr. Salinas's image and popularity will carry over. Until now, the strongest asset of the candidate, Luis Donaldo Colosio, has been the continuity he represented.
 
Opposition Is Invigorated
 Mr. Colosio is now expected to put some distance between himself and Mr. Salinas while his campaign focuses on the well-being of all Mexicans. To succeed, he will have to convince voters that current injustices will end even if his party's long rule does not.
Challenging that premise will be an invigorated opposition, led by Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, who in 1988 came closer to defeating the party candidate than anyone else in 65 years.
Mr. Cardenas's stalled campaign now has a delicate opportunity. In a recent survey by a Mexico City public opinion company, 61 percent of respondents said the conflict in Chiapas could have been avoided, and almost 40 percent said they held the Government responsible for what happened.
Mr. Cardenas's advisers say that he has worked hard to prove that he was not connected with the uprising and did not favor it. He also wants to make clear that his leftist candidacy will not result in a radicalized, violent Mexico But his main campaign theme, that Mr. Salinas's economic revolution has benefited a few at the expense of the poor, will gain resonance because of the tragedy in Chiapas.
 
Fissures Within Party
 Chiapas seems to have caused a number of fissures within the Institutional Revolutionary Party that could deepen by next August.
The party's oldest and most entrenched factions, represented by the 93-year-old union leader Fidel Velazquez, have tried to blame Mr. Cardenas's Democratic Revolution Party for inciting the Chiapas uprising. Mr. Velazquez, who fought in Mexico's 1910-1917 revolution, has also become increasingly critical of Mr. Salinas's handling of the conflict. He is against granting an amnesty, as Mr. Salinas has proposed, and has said that instead of being invited to the negotiation table, the rebel army should be "exterminated."
Mr. Salinas's selection of Manuel Camacho Solis, the popular former Mayor of Mexico City, to head the peace negotiations also has complicated Mr. Colosio's life because it puts Mr. Camacho back into the political running after he was passed over for the party's presidential nomination in November.
Mr. Colosio formally kicked off his campaign last week, but the fanfare was greatly overshadowed by events in the south. The party had to work hard to emphasize the parts of Mr. Colosio's campaign speech in which he said that "the spilling of blood is not the way" to a better future.
 
A Daunting Challenge
 The political challenge facing Mr. Salinas is daunting. He has to end the rebellion, patch up relations with the rebels and the millions of poor Mexicans who morally support them, and devise a way to put Mexico's economic reforms back on track, all before any hint of prolonged or expanded violence can scare foreign investors or endanger the election.
He started out with an iron fist, unleashing the Mexican Army. But even with bombs and 15,000 troops the army could not quash the rebellion in the few days Mr. Salinas was willing to give, and the troops were badly embarrassed.
As the guerrillas, who call themselves the Zapatista National Liberation Army, headed into the lush hills where they would be more difficult to find, Mr. Salinas shifted to a political tack, declaring a unilateral truce and offering to negotiate peace.
In this crisis, Mr. Salinas has done what few Mexican Presidents have ever done, admit that he has made mistakes. Looking haggard and stressed, he went on television on Jan. 10 to announce a Cabinet shake-up and to concede that the Government "didn't work as it should have."
Specifically, he was referring to Patrocinio Gonzalez Garrido, the minister of the interior and former Governor of Chiapas State, the site of Mexico's first significant guerrilla movement in 20 years.
Mr. Salinas replaced Mr. Gonzalez the same day.
 
Social Reform Urged
 But a columnist, Adolfo Sanchez Rebolledo, and other critics have said that the righting of errors should not end with Mr. Gonzalez.
"Mexico can and should take the opportunity to accelerate the transition to democracy, opening a clear perspective to social reform," Mr. Sanchez Rebolledo wrote in La Jornada of Mexico City. "There's no excuse not to do it."
Mexican officials will go so far as to say that Chiapas may be a symptom of what's wrong with Mexico. But in Mexico City the graffiti of rebel sympathizers proclaims, "Chiapas is Mexico."
Like Peru, Argentina and other Latin American countries with newly opened economies but disaffected poor, Mexico is being forced by civil unrest to reconsider its path.
Salinas aides say that the Chiapas uprising was an isolated incident that in no way undoes the accomplishments of the last five years. That, critics counter, will be determined in August.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico as he prepared to announce a cease-fire in Chiapas. (Reuters)
 
Maps show the location of Chiapas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; ; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDIANS, AMERICAN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); TRENDS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES); DEPALMA, ANTHONY CARLOS SALINAS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



538 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sees Double Blow to Russia Reform

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Clinton Administration officials voiced serious concern today about the announced resignation of Russia's Finance Minister, Boris G. Fyodorov, an advocate of rapid economic reform, fearing his departure could slow Moscow's move to a market economy.
American officials hesitated to express worry when another leading reformer, First Deputy Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar, resigned last Sunday. Trying to put the best face on that resignation, which came on the day President Clinton left Moscow after meeting President Boris N. Yeltsin, American officials said they were still confident that reforms would continue to move apace, in part because Mr. Fyodorov was still in place. 
 Today, however, with Mr. Fyodorov saying he would not stay in the Government, Administration officials could hide their disappointment no longer.
 
'We're Disappointed'
 Reacting to Mr. Fyodorov's announcement, a senior Administration official said: "We're disappointed. These two guys had credibility with the international community. We had worked extremely closedly with them."
Another senior official said: "This is a source of concern. The important thing is they make good on their commitments to continue with reform."
Lee Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said: "I look upon this as a serious setback. We have put a lot of confidence in these two gentleman as reformers. We have looked to them as the intellectual leaders. It almost certainly means a slowing down of reform."
Mr. Hamilton said he feared that the resignations would give more power to Russia's central bank president, Viktor V. Gerashchenko, who has not been nearly as intent on combating inflation.
 
Assurances From Yeltsin
 During his visit to Moscow, Mr. Clinton accepted Mr. Yeltsin's assurances that there would be no slackening in the pace of reform, even though it was evident then that he would have trouble delivering on his pledge. Russia's parliamentary elections on Dec. 12 produced a marked shift in power, with those supporting Mr. Yeltsin doing much less well than expected.
The parties that now dominate the parliament -- ultranationalists and former Communists -- want to slow reform, and the people around Mr. Yeltsin conceded even as he met with Mr. Clinton that he had no choice but to give those parties a stronger voice in the government.
The Gaidar and Fyodorov resignations, coming so soon after Mr. Clinton's visit, were undeniably embarrassing to the Administration, and White House officials strained to put an optimistic gloss on the changes. They suggested that Mr. Yeltsin was forced by the elections to shake up his Cabinet and that he would make sure that true reform would emerge, although at a slower pace.
 
I.M.F. to Visit Russia
 Officials at the International Monetary Fund declined to comment on the changes in the Russian Cabinet, but they have often praised Mr. Gaidar and Mr. Fyodorov because they favored speedy reforms and tough measures to clamp down on inflation.
I.M.F. officials were to visit Moscow over the next few weeks to discuss Russia's economic program. Since Mr. Fyodorov was the I.M.F.'s main interlocutor, one official said those talks would probably be delayed.
According to Administration officials, Russia has received about $6 billion of the $24 billion in aid that was promised last July in Tokyo at the summit of the Group of Seven industrial nations. The I.M.F. has lent $1.5 billion, the World Bank about $340 million and the industrial nations have issued about $4 billion in bilateral export credits. About half of the $24 billion is expected to come from the I.M.F., but is contingent on Russia's progress on economic reforms.
 
They Favored Reforms
 Mr. Gaidar and Mr. Fyodorov were known for favoring such measures as removing price controls, rapid privatization of state-owned enterprises, slashing credits that keep inefficient enterprises afloat and severely restraining growth in the money supply to hold down inflation.
They often battled with more conservative members of the cabinet who believe it is important to provide enterprises and farms with billions of rubles in subsidized credits to keep them afloat and unemployment low.
About the only thing the Administration was happy about was that Anatoly B. Chubais, a Gaidar and Fyodorov ally, was remaining as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of privatization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (50%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIANA, USA (50%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TRENDS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FYODOROV, BORIS G (MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



539 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: German Politics: A Step Forward, a Step Back

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, Jan. 20

 BODY:
At the start of an election year that will decide the fate of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's 12-year-old conservative coalition Government, German politics seems to be staggering around in circles.
Rather than dealing quickly with the larger than expected economic and social problems that followed unification in 1990, German political parties have been debating them endlessly. 
 They agree that budget cuts are necessary to reduce the country's growing deficits, then vote spending increases that require more cuts. They agree that Germany should have a seat on the United Nations Security Council, then debate inconclusively about whether German troops can take part in peacekeeping operations outside their borders.
Recently, the subject has been whether to move the capital from Bonn to Berlin, something West Germans swore for 40 years that they would do when their country was reunited. After it finally was reunited in 1990, many politicians had second thoughts.
Though the German Parliament had voted then to make Berlin the capital again, opponents -- Rhinelanders accustomed to running the country, taxpayer groups who thought that cost of $11 billion was too much and the Bonn branch of Mr. Kohl's own party -- mounted a fierce rear-guard action.
Last month, Mr. Kohl's Government said it would move, definitely, between 1998 and 2000. Last week, leaders of all the major parties in Parliament met in Mr. Kohl's offices and decided yet again to move to Berlin, between 1998 and 2000. This time they really meant it -- maybe. Another vote by the whole Parliament is scheduled for next week.
The paralysis has not been total, but it has sometimes been close to it. While millions of asylum-seekers streamed into Germany after the end of the cold war, the parties debated endlessly about changing the country's Constitution to tighten eligibility for asylum, finally lurching to a decision last summer. Mr. Kohl's Government managed a decision last year to send 1,700 German peacekeeping troops to Somalia, but it will withdraw them when American forces leave in March.
There is constant talk that the problems of dealing with far-right violence against foreigners, converting eastern Germany to a free market economy during the worst recession since the end of World War II and other unexpected consequences of the post-cold-war period may be solvable only by a "grand coalition" government.
A grand coalition would unite Mr. Kohl's Christian Democrats, Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel's Free Democrats and the opposition Social Democrats, and perhaps other groups as well. It would be necessary in any case if neither of the big parties won enough votes to form a coalition with the Free Democrats, who have played a balancing role since the 1960's.
"Nobody wants a grand coalition, but it could become unavoidable," Wolfgang Schauble, the parliamentary floor leader of the Christian Democrats, said on Wednesday, but he was confident that the next Chancellor would still be Helmut Kohl.
That will not happen if Rudolf Scharping, the 47-year-old Premier of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate, who became the Social Democrats' leader last summer, has his way. He hopes that a string of state elections beginning in Lower Saxony on March 12 will bring his party to a 40 percent share of the national vote for the first time since the 1970's and end the Kohl era.
Mr. Scharping has begun moving his party from the left-wing fringes, where it had been since its last Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, was replaced by Mr. Kohl in 1982. But so far, he has not been able to get it to agree to a larger peacekeeping role for Germany in the United Nations.
Public opinion polls show his party would win 37 to 39 percent of the national vote now, with 32 to 36 percent supporting Mr. Kohl's Christian Democrats -- down from 44.3 percent in the 1990 elections.
More alarming to many politicians in a country where well over 80 percent of the voters exercise the franchise is that public opinion surveys now show that more than a quarter of those polled are so disillusioned with politics they do not plan to vote at all this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; ; GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF POLITICS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); COLD WAR (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



540 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2694 words

HEADLINE: Almost a Nation: The Kurds in Iraq -- A special report.;
Kurds Rebuilding Shattered Land, Winning a Precarious Autonomy

BYLINE: By JOHN DARNTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ERBIL, Iraq

 BODY:
High in the treeless plateaus and snow-capped mountains of northern Iraq, Kurds are rebuilding their devastated towns and villages and drawing them together into a de facto state that stops just short of nationhood.
Almost three years after they rose up in the wake of the Persian Gulf war and were crushed by the forces of Saddam Hussein, close to four million Kurds live an autonomous -- but precarious -- existence. 
 They are dependent on $145 million in annual emergency aid through the United Nations. Their lives are shielded by United States, British and French planes that fly daily over a protected zone north of the 36th parallel to keep Iraqi troops at bay. And they are beset by internal strains and divisions, including a fundamentalist Islamic movement said to be sponsored by Iran.
 
Neighbors Feel Threatened
 Neighbors on all sides, from Syria to Turkey to Iran, feel threatened by their own Kurdish minorities, and so a strong independent Kurdish state whose borders are internationally recognized is a long way from reality.
Nonetheless, the nascent quasi-state of "Kurdistan," a dream of Kurdish people for 75 years, is inexorably taking shape.
The Iraqi Kurds have an elected parliament evenly divided between two rival parties. They have kept 24 hospitals and smaller clinics running, despite shortages of drugs and spare parts for machines. They have a court system, a police force and a 36,000-strong army formed from an uneasy merger of the two main groups of guerrilla fighters. They run nearly 1,500 primary and secondary schools and have added a second and a third university. Some instruction is in the once-forbidden Kurdish language.
"We are proud of our achievements so far, but we still live under mortal threat from the Iraqi troops," said Massoud Barzani, the 47-year-old tribal leader and head of the Kurdish Democratic Party.
Clad in the traditional garb of red-and-white checkered turban, brown jacket and baggy trousers fastened with a cummerbund, Mr. Barzani was sitting in his mountain retreat at Salahaddin. Behind him was a spectacular vista of brown plains, rounded foothills and a single road snaking for miles up to his headquarters.
He listed the Kurds' problems. There is the "double embargo" -- international sanctions imposed against Iraq and within that an internal embargo by Baghdad to undermine the Kurds' economy. There are "the terrorist campaign launched against us by Baghdad" and shelling from the Iraqi lines, where tens of thousands of troops are encamped within sight, and shelling from Iran, which is aimed at Iranian Kurds inside Iraq.
"Also," he said, "we suffer from regional tensions and a worsening economic situation and living standards, which threaten our stability."
But somehow the Kurds' quasi-state keeps on going and in some ways is getting stronger. It has already lasted longer than the only state the Kurds have ever had, the Mahabad Republic, which was founded by Mr. Barzani's father, Mustafa, in Iran after World War II and lasted 11 months.
"Two years ago there were regions with no sign of life," Mr. Barzani said. "Now, there are thriving villages."
 
The Quasi-State
Trying to Ease Fears of Neighbors
 Like everyone in an official position, Mr. Barzani goes to great lengths to insist that "Kurdistan" is not a secessionist state. The goal, at least for the moment, is to create a truly autonomous region within a federation, and to work for the overthrow of Mr. Hussein, Iraq's President, and the installation of a democracy in Baghdad. "We recognize the territorial integrity of Iraq," he said.
Accordingly, emblems of nationalist sentiment are played down. True, the huge portraits of Mr. Hussein have been taken down and replaced by murals of guerrilla martyrs. But Kurdish flags do not fly over buildings. There is no Kurdish currency or passport stamps. Many Iraqi laws are still in place. Even the insignia on some military uniforms are Iraqi.
There is a sense of play-acting to much of this. Everyone knows that the elaborate show of limited aspirations is intended to assuage the fears of surrounding countries, which have Kurdish populations of their own and fear insurrection.
The Kurds, an ancient, indigenous non-Arabic people, number about 20 million altogether and are clustered mainly in the border areas of northern Iraq, Syria, southeastern Turkey and western Iran. Their resistance to outside domination is legendary and summed up in the Kurdish saying, "Our only friends are the mountains."
For the Iraqi Kurds, Turkey is the lifeline. It has the only connection with the outside world, a road that winds through the plains and foothills of southeastern Turkey and crosses the Iraqi border at a narrow bridge at Habur. Virtually every other land route into the region is closed.
And Turkey, which has 10 million Kurds, is struggling to quash a Kurdish independence movement, the Kurdish Workers Party, which is waging a campaign of violence. Ankara is perhaps the most nervous capital of them of all.
To keep their own region alive, the Iraqi Kurds have been cooperating with Turkish forces to expel Turkish Kurds camps from the mountainous border area, a move that deeply disturbs some of them since it sets Kurd against Kurd.
"We have to be realistic," said Hoshyar Zebari, spokesman for Mr. Barzani's Kurdish Democratic Party. "We are totally dependent on one route from Turkey. We have to search out the middle ground. That's why we seek a balance between Kurdish rights and autonomy and the territorial integrity of Iraq."
But in discussions with many Kurds, that balance drops away. "What do I want for Kurdistan?" repeated Jwan Rshad, a 21-year-old student at the University of Salahaddin, clutching her books to her chest. "Simple," she said without a moment's hesitation. "Independence."
 
The People
Deprivation Is Common
 The Kurdish region in Iraq is a breathtaking juxtaposition of sharp mountains and rounded rolling hills, brown and green, thrust high into the sky. They are criss-crossed by electric pylons and huddled herds of long-haired goats tended by young boys and old men wrapped in padded jackets and turbans.
The towns and cities are bustling. Narrow streets are crowded with honking cars and carts pulled by donkeys, past open-fronted stores crammed with goods. The buildings are squat and angular, made of stone, stucco and cinder blocks. There is a confusion of minarets, telephone poles and wires overhead and puddles and piles of debris underfoot. There are boys selling cigarettes from trays around their necks, fruit stands piled high with oranges, and women draped in black carrying burdens. On the outskirts of towns stacks of canisters filled with gasoline are arranged in towering constructions.
The scars from Iraq's response to the 1991 uprising and from an earlier decade of suppression by Baghdad can be seen everywhere. More than 4,000 villages and hamlets have been destroyed.
Seven hundred thousand people in the western province of Dohuk have not had electricity for five months -- something to do with problems in a generating station, Baghdad has said. The explanation is not believed here.
In the east, the city of Sulaimaniya has swollen with refugees to 800,000, twice its pre-war size.
Most of the 1.5 million who fled to Turkey and Iran have returned, but many of their homes are gone. International relief agencies are able to supply supplemental food to 700,000 people deemed to be "at risk." While there is no overt starvation, officials say, signs of malnutrition are spreading.
It is not that the harvest was bad. Last year's crop of wheat and barley was plentiful, though harmed somewhat by disease and grasshoppers. The problem is that a program for the Kurdish government to buy up the harvest was not entirely successful, and much of it was smuggled out.
Inflation is running at 100 percent annually. Largely because of international sanctions on Iraq, supplies brought by truck through Turkey are one-fifth of what they were a year ago. With unemployment almost a meaningless statistic -- more than 85 percent of the people have no job -- tax revenues are a trickle.
"It's not that there isn't any food in the market, because there is," said Kosrat Rasoul, the Kurdish prime minister. "It's that people can't afford it. The average monthly wage is now about $6; you can't buy 20 kilos of flour for that."
The oil-rich region around Kirkuk and the city of Mosul are still in Iraqi hands and are being "Arabized," meaning that Kurdish families are being expelled. For fuel, Kurdistan depends on a thin flow of kerosene and gasoline from Baghdad, which turns it on and off like a spigot.
Among the worst areas are relocation villages outside Sulaimaniya like Said Sadiq, a squalid encampment of some 40,000 refugees. Two years ago they lived in tents, but now those have given way to more permanent structures, pathetic huts of rock walls without mortar and tin roofs held down by stones.
"It's not living like a human being; it's just surviving," said Rashid Jabar, an elderly man who was born in a small village in the Zagros Mountains. Helives with his wife and daughter in a dark, cramped hovel heated by a kerosene stove. They receive a daily ration of flour, sugar and chick peas, and fetch water from an open pipe that is often dry.
"I can barely do anything," he said. "I am weak. I have had four operations. I see no future. We are just waiting for the mercy of God."
 
The Atrocities
Poison Gas From Iraq
 The scars of Iraqi atrocities are not hard to find.
About 15 miles to the south of Erbil, is a village of crude cinderblock dwellings called Qoush Typa, once a center of anti-Iraq resistance. Today it is informally called "the village without men" -- a literal description since the day in July 1983 when Iraqi troops surrounded the town and took away all males above the age of 12. Some 8,000 disappeared and have not been seen since.
Now, when foreigners come to visit, women draped in layers of black come pleading for help in finding out what happened to their husbands and sons.
"Saddam has taken all of our men," moaned Qudrat Derwish, a woman in her 50's. "We are in need of help."
Perhaps the deepest scar is in the town of Halabja, close to the Iranian border, which had once been a hotbed of insurrection.
On March 16, 1988, Halabja became famous. It was there that the world first became aware that Iraqi forces were using chemical weapons against the Kurds.
"It was 20 minutes to 6 in the evening," recalled Shawkat Haji Mushir, who at the time was the commander of local guerrilla forces numbering about 1,200. "There had been an artillery attack at noon, so all the windows were smashed. Suddenly eight military planes came over, and they started to bombard the town. All over the place. Right near here where we are sitting.
"We noticed something peculiar. At first when the bombs exploded, they produced a low, muffling sound. And then a yellowish cloud. It didn't rise. It fell to the ground easily, covering everything.
"Most people died on the streets trying to get out of town. Some ran to the river and jumped in. Some tried to hide inside their houses, but they were trapped there, and they were killed inside. The windows, you see, were broken."
At least 4,000 people, and perhaps as many as 6,500, were killed, according to villagers and human rights groups.
In addition to mustard gas and phosgene, neurological gasses were used, scientists and experts who visited the village afterward have said. Survivors have described a hellish scene in which people acted strangely, often breaking out in peals of laughter, moments before they died.
"It was frightening, horrible," said Mohammed Faraj Ahmed, an art teacher, who said he had covered himself and his two daughters with wet towels and managed to escape. "Around the town it was mined, so we were afraid. We reached the border of Iran and got medical treatment. For three or four weeks, we couldn't see. We couldn't recognize each other by sight, only by voice."
"Thousands of children were among the dead," he said. "A colleague I know buried five of his own children."
Now, even Halabja is slowly coming back to life. Some of the buildings are ruins, but others have been reconstructed. Debris has been cleared away from the main street, riddled with muddy potholes. Shops are open. Perhaps 10,000 people live there, including 600 orphans.
 
The Politics
Tensions Rise In Rival Parties
 Erbil has the hustle of a provincial capital.
On a recent day the high court was in session. Inside a crowded blue courtroom ringed by neon lights, under a single overhead fan that did not work, a nervous 22-year-old man stood behind wooden bars, on trial for the murder of two of three members of a free-lance BBC team that disappeared in March 1991.
On the same day, parliament was in session across town. It meets in a wood-lined chamber, also lighted by neon, with six rows of curved seats for the delegates in tribal clothes and business suits.
This time, it convened to hear a speech by Lord Archer, the British novelist and a member of the House of Lords, who has taken a special interest in helping the Kurds. He was roundly applauded when he read a letter from Prime Minister John Major of Britain promising to force Iraq to comply with United Nations resolutions.
The parliament is split, with 50 seats for Mr. Barzani's Kurdish Democratic Party and 50 seats for the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, headed by Jalal Talabani. Five seats were set aside for Assyrian Christians. Islamic fundamentalists, who won 4 percent of the vote in the May 1992 elections, were offered seats but declined.
Now, tensions are growing between the main parties, especially between the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the fundamentalists. In the last week in December fighting broke out between the groups, and more than 100 people were killed. The fundamentalist leader, Sheik Osman Abdul Aziz, has been given protective shelter by Mr. Barzani.
Members of the Patriotic Union warn about the dangers of the fundamentalist movement. They say fundamentalists have been taking over mosques and, bankrolled at $2 million a month by Iran, are becoming active in the slums of the collective villages.
"These groups are working with Iran and Afghanistan," said Hero Talabani, the wife of the Patriotic Union leader. "They want to take over Kurdistan and use it as a stepping stone to take over all of Iraq."
"They have a lot of money," she said. "They distribute food and the Koran and the chador for women. Look how many women are covering their heads. One young girl I know said she was told by an Islamic teacher: 'If you don't wear a scarf, when you die they will be able to drag you to hell by grabbing your hair.' "
Always there is the sense that Iraqi troops are close at hand and that the fate of the Kurds' could be hanging by a thread. If the allied forces end their protective air cover, the Iraqis will invade, Kurdish leaders predict, and then there will be a bloodbath and a mass exodus into Turkey and Iran.
At the town of Kalak just south of here, all that separates the Kurds from the Iraqis is a rickety bridge.
Capt. Mohammed Hussein stared across it recently and estimated that there were probably 4,000 Iraqi soldiers and 40 tanks and pieces of artillery dug in the hills there. If they come, he said, he would summon all the guerrillas in the region and defend the bridge the best he could.
As he talked, several cars traveled from the Iraqi side. The Kurds inside complained about their treatment at the Iraqi checkpoint. One said the Iraqi soldiers had taken away her medicine. Another said they had carried off all their apricots. A third said they had siphoned half a tank of gas and tossed it onto the ground.
Meanwhile, a bus crossed from the Kurdish side, filled with young men. They were soccer players from Erbil, off to play a match in Mosul, the captain said. He shrugged and laughed. "The Iraqi clubs won't come over to play on our side," he said, "so we have to play all the games over there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The dream of nationhood for Kurds is coming closer to reality in northern Iraq. Despite deprivations caused by Iraq and by international sanctions against Baghdad, Kurdish cities are bustling with commercial activity, as in this market scene in Erbil, the site of the Kurdish parliament. (John Darnton/The New York Times) (pg. A8)
 
Maps show the location of the Kurdish region. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GULF STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; ; IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GULF STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: KURDS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); DESERT STORM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORISM (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (65%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%); RELIGION (54%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); DRUG SHORTAGES (51%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); DARNTON, JOHN SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



541 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: U.S. PLANS TALKS ON VIETNAM CLAIMS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Continuing to tiptoe toward ending the trade embargo on Vietnam, the Clinton Administration announced plans today to open talks with Hanoi to settle millions of dollars in financial claims arising from the Communist defeat of the South Vietnamese Government in 1975.
The Administration is leaning toward lifting the embargo, and today's move appears part of orchestrated efforts to clear the way toward ending the embargo and minimizing the political backlash to such a move. 
 The American Legion, the Disabled American Veterans, and relatives of servicemen missing in action are eager to keep the embargo and have begun a campaign to warn the President that lifting it would be unpopular and politically dangerous.
 
Political Soundings
 Administration officials reached a consensus at an interagency meeting last month to end the embargo, but officials said that before making that politically sensitive move they first wanted to make political soundings.
State Department officials said Washington and Hanoi were still discussing dates for the talks, which some experts estimate involve more than $200 million in claims for confiscated property, including claims related to the seizure of the American Embassy.
Administration officials maintained that the claims dispute was not an obstacle to lifting the 19-year-old embargo, but resolving it could reduce overall tensions. Last July President Clinton said the only factor he would weigh in determining whether to end the embargo was if Hanoi was cooperating in providing "the fullest possible accounting" for the 2,239 Americans listed as missing in Indochina.
The announcement today follows several other recent moves that the Clinton Administration has made to minimize the political backlash to ending the embargo. Last week, it announced plans to start talks with Vietnam about improving its human rights performance, and it also began the biggest excavation efforts since the war ended to search for remains of Americans. In addition, the Administration has sent Adm. Charles R. Larson, commander of the American forces in the Pacific, to Hanoi to assess Vietnam's cooperation in helping Washington learn about the missing.
 
Bentsen Is Optimistic
 Despite the vigorous campaign by veterans' groups, the Administration still appears to be leaning toward lifting the embargo. Last Tuesday in Bangkok, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said he was optimistic that the embargo would be lifted soon.
"As has been the case with other countries on other issues, a stategy of engagement with Vietnam may be the most effective way to promote our goal of accounting for P.O.W.'s and M. I. A. 's from the war," he said.
To help sell an end to the embargo, the Administration is arguing that the best way to learn more about Americans missing in Indochina would be to increase ties with Hanoi and increase the American presence in that country. But the American Legion argues that the best way to force more cooperation from Hanoi is to maintain the leverage of economic sanctions. In the Administration's view, even if it removes the embargo, it can hold diplomatic relations as another carrot.
"I think the Vietnam embargo is going to be history," said Gary L. Ackerman, a Democrat from Queens who is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific."That's pretty much a foregone conclusion. I just think it's a matter of the politically correct timing."
 
Clinton and the Draft
 Administration officials concede that the embargo decision is especially difficult for President Clinton because of his steps to avoid the military draft in the Vietnam War and because of allegations that Commerce Secretary Ron Brown received money to help push for closer ties with Vietnam.
Some officials fear that Republicans on Capitol Hill will accuse the President of selling out the M.I.A.'s if he lifts the embargo. But the Administration has taken comfort in the fact that five Republican senators have over the last month spoken out in favor of lifting the embargo.
Administration officials also acknowledge that it is taking American economic interests into account in deciding whether to end the embargo. They note that American businesses have been forced to wait on the sidelines while Vietnam links up with foreign businesses.
For instance, officials at the Boeing Company -- the company that Mr. Clinton has often trumpeted as the nation's leading exporter -- note that because of the embargo Boeing lost an order for four 737's that Hanoi had tentatively agreed to buy. Hanoi instead obtained the needed planes from Airbus, the European consortium.
 
Criticized by Veterans
 Veterans' groups criticize the Clinton Administration for even considering economic factors in the equation. In a letter to the President, the Disabled American Veterans said, "It would be deplorable and deceitful to give up our nation's quest for the fullest possible accounting of our missing servicemen just to pad the bottom lines of a few American corporations."
For the most part, businesses have refused to lobby vigorously on this issue because they do not want to give the impression that they are uncaring about the nation's M.I.A.'s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (97%); VIETNAM (93%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; ; UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (97%); VIETNAM (93%); THAILAND (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; VIETNAM WAR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (95%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TRENDS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); VETERANS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



542 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Phony Air Controller Pleads Guilty in Radio Hoax

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ROANOKE, Va., Jan. 20

 BODY:
An unemployed janitor who was dubbed the "Roanoke Phantom" after he took to secured air waves posing as an air traffic controller pleaded guilty today to giving pilots false information.
For six weeks last fall the janitor, Rodney E. Bocook, 27, instructed both commercial and general aviation pilots to break off their landings at the last minute and change altitudes and direction as they approached the Roanoke Regional Airport here. 
 Investigators said Mr. Bocook had learned what frequencies to use by following instructions found in publicly available manuals, and had used a widely available radio transmitter. Some pilots followed his instructions, investigators said.
Federal aviation officials said there had been no accidents as a result of the misinformation and directions he had given pilots.
But John Butler, an agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, testified: "The confusion over the airwaves could ultimately have created a midair collision or other aircraft disaster. During one departing flight, his directions, had they been believed and followed, would have caused the pilot to fly into the mountains surrounding the airport."
 
Signals Traced to Old Car
 Mr. Bocook's airwave piracy finally ended when investigators for the Federal Aviation Administration tracked him down by using radio receivers and directional antenna equipment. Investigators said they had traced the signals to an old Buick, from which Mr. Bocook was transmitting his false instructions to pilots while cruising on the outskirts of the airport.
Mr. Bocook, who pleaded guilty to giving pilots false information and using profane language over the airwaves, could be sentenced to 22 years in prison and fined up to $250,000. He was expected to be sentenced within 45 days.
Tony Anderson, Mr. Bocook's lawyer, said he would seek a reduced sentence because of Mr. Bocook's cooperation with the authorities. He also said his client had a diminished capacity to understand the difference between right and wrong.
"He did not have a true appreciation for the seriousness of his conduct, both factually and mentally," Mr. Anderson said. "The motivation was not malicious."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ROANOKE, VA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE (VA); ; UNITED STATES (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOAXES; AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRPORTS (91%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); INSANITY DEFENSE (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); AIRLINES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: BOCOOK, RODNEY E JOHN BUTLER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



543 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE;
Crowds Besiege U.S. Agency for Earthquake Aid

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 20

 BODY:
An angry, tearful crowd pushed against the doors of a Federal disaster-relief center today as it was opening at the epicenter of Monday's earthquake. Thousands more ringed the block on a day when an urgent need for food, water and shelter clashed with bureaucratic procedures.
The Federal Emergency Management had just opened the center in Northridge at 1 P.M. when 15 people without appointments shoved their way in for interviews. Outside, about 4,000 other applicants for assistance were growing increasingly restless. 
 "Get the kids out of there!" a police officer ordered as he called for backup to control the crowd. "They're going to suffocate."
 
Critical Housing Shortage
 Three days after the earthquake, the need for shelter and emergency relief has became the most urgent issue here, with tens of thousands of people camping in parks and playing fields and uncounted others staying with friends. Officials warned that the need for shelter could become critical this weekend, with forecasts of heavy rain and temperatures in the 40's. Some of the newly homeless said they were searching at least for sheets of plastic to protect themselves.
"The housing problem is bigger than any of us expected," said Henry G. Cisneros, the Secretary of Housing, as he surveyed the scene at the Northridge emergency office. "Houses that we thought were marginally damaged are proving to have basic foundation damage. I expected a lot of people but not this many."
He told ABC News: "When you fly over it you really can't see the problem. But then you get down on the road or in front of the house, and you see that it's fallen off its foundation and it is completely unsafe and is going to have to be demolished."
 
'We Need Money and Food'
 At the relief center in Northridge, one of 11 to open today, people who had been waiting since dawn shouted and jabbed their fingers at the face of Lourdes Pagano, a FEMA volunteer, who arrived at midday and announced that only those few hundred who had made appointments over an emergency hotline could be helped today. The others were told to get an application and return another day. Officials warned that a completed application did not guarantee aid.
"Just give us somewhere to stay, just a roof," said Jaime Narvez, 16, who has camped out in a playing field with his family since the earthquake. "We need money and food. We need a place with running water."
At the relief centers, FEMA was taking applications for grants of up to $12,200 from low-income victims. Residents could also apply for Small Business Administration loans of up to $120,000 for rebuilding businesses or homes.
Up to 10,000 vouchers for housing aid will be provided to low-income applicants, with only a two- to three-day waiting period, Mr. Cisneros said. "Steps are being taken to make the process work," he said.
He said these steps include the immediate release, announced today, of $100 million for housing, the opening of a 12th relief center in the city and the dispatching of mobile relief vans to Red Cross shelters to supplement the centers.
"It's been a rough day, but we are here five days earlier than Loma Prieta," he said, referring to the 1989 earthquake in the San Francisco area in which 63 people died.
Before the housing vouchers are released, however, the agency will send its own inspector to verify the damage to the homes of applicants, said Kate Smith, a housing specialist at HUD.
 
Death Toll Reaches 51
 Throughout the San Fernando Valley, where the earthquake caused the most damage, residents hurried to remove furniture and belongings from their cracked and shaken homes as building inspectors moved from house to house condemning buildings and pasting up yellow signs reading, "Enter at your own risk."
As they began working their way through the city, building inspectors have so far determined that 3,116 buildings had suffered some damage and that 718 buildings had been destroyed.
"I am homeless," said Connie Ortega, an unemployed film costume designer who showed up at the FEMA center in Santa Monica. "I don't have any place to live. I don't have any money. I never thought it would happen to me."
The dimensions of Monday's destruction continued to grow in other ways today. The death toll rose to 51, matching the official coroner's count of fatalities in the 1992 riots. Hospital officials said 4,604 patients had been treated and released from emergency rooms since the Monday morning quake; 716 patients had been admitted to hospitals.
As aftershocks continued to shudder through the region, nearly 200 patients were evacuated from St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica because of structural damage, and a bridge was closed in Burbank, restricting traffic to major movie studios.
Inside the FEMA center at the Winnetka Community Recreation Center in Northridge, Monique Patton, one of the lucky applicants, moved from table to table with her 8-year-old daughter, Sharrika, repeating the story of her losses: a home, a lifetime of belongings, a quiet daily routine.
At her first stop, Mrs. Patton, a receptionist at a pharmacy, was denied a Small Business Administration loan. At her second, she was given an application for the state's Individual Family Grant Program to cover her personal losses.
When she was told, at her third stop, that she would need to wait two to three days for temporary housing, she began to cry. "My main concern is housing," she said. "We need it right away." She was told to return to a Red Cross shelter.
 
Exercise in Impatience
 At other disaster relief centers the scene was calmer but no less frustrating. At the Sylmar Recreation Center in an open field, officials said about 200 people would be processed today. Hundreds of others were waiting as long as three hours to get appointments for processing on other days.
Many applicants were uncertain whether their homes would need to be demolished or could be rebuilt, and many of them were applying for assistance on insurance deductibles.
In the face of the crush, officials extended the centers' hours from 7 P.M. to midnight and provided buses to transfer applicants from Northridge to less crowded centers. As darkness fell, some people left their daylong places in line to line up for buses that would take them to join new lines elsewhere.
Even the lucky people who were processed today received no tangible relief other than crisis counseling. Their biggest accomplishment was to receive applications and control numbers, which in coming days could produce new housing or loans.
"I don't know why I'm still standing here; maybe they'll change their minds," said Jackie Fard, whose children had been waiting for her in the car for three hours.
Homeless now, and with her custom jewlry business at a standstill, Mrs. Fard said she had nowhere else to hurry to today. "I'm afraid that if I leave they'll give out more applications, and if I stay, they won't," she said. Like thousands of other victims of the earthquake, she stayed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thousands lined up yesterday at a Federal Emergency Management Agency center in Los Angeles to apply for earthquake relief. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times) (pg. A1); St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica was evacuated after it was declared unsafe. Edith Levine was among the patients taken to other hospitals. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; FEDERAL AID (US) EARTHQUAKES (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WEATHER (73%); CAMPING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



544 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11
 
RUSSIA LOSES 2D TOP REFORMER
A Finance Minister who has come to represent Russia's commitment to rapid economic reform announced he was resigning. The decision came after President Yeltsin named a new Cabinet that is expected to put higher priority on protecting industrial jobs than fighting inflation. A1
 
The United States voiced concern about Boris Fyodorov's exit. A10 

U.S. TO CHECK CHINA'S PRISONS
Visiting Beijing, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said China had agreed to reopen Chinese prisons to American customs officers so they can insure that prison factories are not making products for export to the United States. A1
 
KURDS FORGING A QUASI-STATE
Almost three years after they were crushed by the forces of Saddam Hussein, Kurds in northern Iraq are rebuilding their devastated towns and villages and drawing them together into a de facto state that stops just short of nationhood. A1
 
CROAT VS. SERB VS. SERB
News analysis: A diplomatic pact signed by Serbia and Croatia seeks not only to target Bosnia's Muslim-led Government, but a breakaway pocket of Serbs in Croatia. A3
 
MEXICANS QUESTION THE SYSTEM
Uneasiness with Mexico's system of Government existed before the uprising in southern Chiapas State, but the violence seems to have intensified feelings. With elections scheduled in August, the governing party faces the challenge of convincing voters that current injustices will end even if it stays in power. A3
 
NEW SPECTER STALKS HAITIANS
Even by the rough standards of Haitian public life, where fistfights and gunplay in Parliament no longer provoke scandal, a new rightist group has established itself as one of the most brazen elements. A4
 
KOREA SPURNS INSPECTION RULES
The International Atomic Energy Agency said the North had rejected a list of inspection procedures that the agency says it must carry out to determine if nuclear weapons are under development. A5
 
TALKS WITH HANOI ON WAR CLAIMS
Still tiptoeing toward ending the trade embargo on Vietnam, the Clinton Administration announced plans to open talks with Hanoi to settle millions of dollars in claims arising from the defeat of the South Vietnamese Government in 1975. A7
 
Japan's leader struggles to protect his vote reform package.A6
 
Greece's battle to claim the name "Macedonia" may have fizzled. A2
 
In a German election year, disarray and squabbling. A11
 
National A12-21
 
SPECIAL COUNSEL IS NAMED
Robert B. Fiske Jr., who has been named to investigate President Clinton's Arkansas land dealings, said his inquiry would almost certainly include questioning the President and Hillary Rodham Clinton under oath. A1
 
Fiske's reputation for integrity is thoroughly entrenched. A16
 
PLEADING FOR QUAKE RELIEF
An angry, tearful crowd pushed against the doors of a Federal disaster relief center that opened at the epicenter of Monday's earthquake, as desperate need for food, water and shelter clashed with bureaucratic procedures. A1
 
CHILDREN DEAL WITH DISASTER
As adults in Los Angeles turn to insurance claims and the hellish morning commute, children are trying to adjust to a world where nothing seems secure any more. A19
 
Thousands of Angelinos took their first ride on public transit. A18
 
Patience may prove to be the survival tool of Los Angeles. A18
 
NEW REGULATIONS FOR FISH
The Federal Government is expected to announce that it will for the first time require the seafood industry to keep detailed records of safety procedures and to label all shellfish to show where it came from. A1
 
FIRST FEMALE STUDENT AT CITADEL
A young South Carolina woman became the first woman to take classes with cadets at The Citadel, breaking a 151-year-old tradition at the historic military college. A12
 
ACCUSED OF ILLEGAL TESTING
A hospital has been accused of testing pregnant women for drug use without their consent, and collecting confidential information from them to turn over to the police without their knowledge. A12
 
JURY DELIBERATES IN BOBBITT TRIAL
Jury deliberations began in the trial of Lorena L. Bobbitt, who is accused of malicious wounding when she cut off her husband's penis with a kitchen knife last June. A13
 
RULING ON CHINESE REFUGEES
A Federal court ruled that victims of China's coercive population control policies were eligible for asylum in the United States, despite the Clinton Administration's efforts to expel some of them. A14
 
RUDMAN SHUNS DEFENSE POST
Warren B. Rudman, the former Republican Senator from New Hampshire who was under consideration for Defense Secretary, has asked that his name be withdrawn, White House officials said. A16
 
Law Page B18
 
Predicting jury verdicts in damage suits for settlements and profit.
 
At the Bar: A lawyer's homegrown ad bashes another kind of bar.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
HOMELESS DEFYING THE COLD
With the deep-freeze across the East making venturing outside painful, many homeless people are going into shelters, but some are shunning them and deciding instead to pit their survival instincts against the elements. They were the odd nocturnal visitors on the doorsteps of some elegant shops along Madison Avenue. A1
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-27, D17
 
In search of steak and history. C1
Bundling up for the Winter Antiques Show. C1
For Children C16
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"Holiday Heart." C3
"Irene Worth's Portrait of Edith Wharton." C3
Film: Two Ozu series. C1
Dance: Joe Goode group. C27
Restaurants C20
Art: Feminist works. C5
Old Master works in the galleries. C22
Books: "Separation," a novel. C27
Television: TV Weekend D17
Home Video D17
 
Sports B9-16
 
Baseball: White may be ready to step down. B9
Column: Vecsey on Jordan and baseball. B9
Figure Skating: Prosecutors weigh moves in Harding case. B9
Torvill and Dean recover. B10
Football: Montana's liberated receivers. B9
Hockey: Bourque remains the master at 33. B9
 
Obituaries B8
 
David Kirschenbaum, book dealer.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
The Pentagon's pterodactyl.
Finding jobs for welfare clients.
Stillness along the Potomac.
A new prosecutor.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The price of Korea.
Anthony Lewis: The royal President.
James Webb: Who can blame Inman?
Arthur Schlesinger Jr.: Who is Inman to wail?
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword C27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (93%); CROATIA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); MEXICO (92%); VIET NAM (92%); SERBIA (79%); GREECE (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (93%); CROATIA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); MEXICO (92%); VIET NAM (92%); SERBIA (79%); GREECE (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EARTHQUAKES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); WITNESSES (63%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



545 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Widen Accords On Civil Rights

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said today that China and the United States had agreed to reopen Chinese prisons to American customs officers to insure that their factories are not making products for export to the United States.
The accord gives some fresh momentum to the Administration's drive to get China to loosen up on human rights so that President Clinton can justify to Congress a renewal of China's preferential trade status in June. Chinese movement on the prison labor issue is one of the key conditions President Clinton has laid down. 
 "I'm pleased to announce today that we have made some progress on the prison labor front," Mr. Bentsen said in a speech to 200 academics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. "Our Governments have agreed on measures to insure more effective prevention of exports made with prison labor. China has also agreed to permit inspections of five prisons alleged to be producing goods for export."
An agreement with the Bush Administration in 1992 on this subject fell apart after only two inspections.
The understanding today, coupled with the agreement between Washington and Beijing earlier this week to curb Chinese textile exports to the United States and the recent release by China of a few prominent political prisoners, suggests that the Administration's new policy of aggressive engagement with Beijing may -- and American officials stress the word "may" -- be starting to pay off.
It is not known how China will respond to the other demands, which include an accounting for all its political prisoners, visits to political prisoners by the Red Cross, emigration rights for families of dissidents who have fled and protection of Tibet's cultural heritage.
Secretary Bentsen declined to characterize the importance of the recent Chinese moves, or to say whether he felt China and Washington were finally on their way to resolving enough of their differences for President Clinton to feel comfortable renewing Beijing's trade status, which allows China to export products to the United States at the lowest possible tariff rates.
"That is for the President to decide," Mr. Bentsen said, after a day that also included talks with President Jiang Zemin and the Central Bank Governor, Zhu Rongi.
 
Protection for Compact Disks
 Mr. Bentsen said Mr. Zhu promised him that Beijing would increase its efforts to enforce copyright laws, and in particular work to end the widespread practice here of pirating American compact disks. On Friday, the Secretary will preside over the reactivation of the China-United States Joint Economic Committee, a forum the countries once used to iron out economic differences but which has been shut since the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre.
Speaking of the prison labor issue, though, Mr. Bentsen said it was "one of the more significant" of the demands laid down by President Clinton in his executive order last June. That order stipulated the conditions the President wanted met before he would renew China's most-favored-nation status, as the trade designation is known.
Customs officials from the Treasury Department and diplomats at the Embassy have been negotiating the prison-labor issue for two months with a team from China's Justice Ministry, Foreign Ministry and Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economics.
 
Allowing for Inspections
 In 1992, the Bush Administration and China reached an understanding that allowed American inspectors to visit prisons suspected of producing goods for export to the United States. American law prohibits prison imports. Last spring, the Chinese did allow Customs officers to visit two prisons, after a great deal of haggling. After that experience, further access was denied.
In his executive order, Mr. Clinton stated that, among other issues, he would not renew China's trade status unless he determined "that China is complying with the 1992 bilateral agreement concerning prison labor."
Last fall, the two countries began talks to revive the memorandum. The Chinese, however, seem to have perfectly timed their concessions and the conclusion of these negotiations to coincide with Mr. Bentsen's visit.
 
Three Key Points
 The new understanding reached today calls for these terms:
*China is to give regular and timely reports when the United States asks for information about the possible use of prisoners to make products for export.
*Customs officials are to visit prisons more frequently, including five visits approved today. The United States Ambassador, J. Stapleton Roy, said one of those five sites, the Red Star tea farm, a suspected prison-labor project along the southern coast, was visited today by a Customs inspector.
*The United States is to give China regular and timely reports on any such prison visits so Beijing will know what violations, if any, are uncovered.
"We are pleased where we stand," added Ambassador Roy. "But the crux of the matter is whether we can continue this level of compliance up to the time when the President makes his decision in June."
Mr. Bentsen is to fly on a United States Air Force jet to Shanghai on Friday. According to American diplomats here, it marks the first time the Chinese have allowed a visitor other than a head of state to fly around China in his own aircraft. It is a small point, but indicative of the degree to which the Chinese seem to be going out of their way to make Mr. Bentsen's visit a success.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
ASYLUM IS GRANTED ON BIRTH POLICY
 A Federal judge ruled that victims of China's coercive population control policies are eligible for asylum in the United States. Page A14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TIBET (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TIBET (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LABOR; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (91%); PRISONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (76%); ACCOUNTING (72%); COPYRIGHT (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); COPYRIGHT LAW (68%); TEXTILES (51%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



546 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Stillness Along the Potomac

 BODY:
Make no mistake, the Big Chill is serious business. As the Times headline said yesterday, this week's record-and-bone-breaking cold has disrupted "power, travel, and life in general." Trains have been canceled, stores closed, emergency blackouts ordered. The one redeeming feature in all this misery is that we may learn to survive with a smaller Federal Government.
Actually, we may even learn to live with fewer lawyers, or at least with lawyers working fewer hours. The noted firm of Arnold & Porter sent everyone home at 4 P.M. Wednesday, causing high anxiety. "It's a major economic decision for an organization that bills by the hour," the firm's managing partner told The Washington Post. 
 Meanwhile, the Office of Personnel Management in Washington -- responding to an emergency request by the Potomac Electric Power Company -- closed government offices for all but "essential personnel" at 3:01 P.M. Wednesday and kept them closed yesterday. It told "essential staff" to dress warmly inside the office and to use the stairs instead of the elevators.
Think of the identity crises this worthy directive must have caused. People of unquestioned essentiality -- the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, for example -- could obviously go to work confident that no one would question their intrinsic importance. In fact, the Chairman could probably have done anything he wanted.
But what of those wretched souls on the very cusp of indispensability? Does one stay home and concede one's inconsequence? Or does one dress warmly, hustle to the Interior Department and climb the stairs only to hear the boss say, "You've overreached, Rutherford; go back to bed"?
Yet think of the pluses. Think of all those faxes that never needed answering, of all those lobbyists with nobody to buttonhole, of all those bad decisions that never needed taking. And -- just possibly -- of all those empty offices that never needed filling. Hillary Rodham Clinton's staff is larger than F.D.R.'s during the Depression, and Vice President Gore's is larger than F.D.R.'s during World War II. Are all those people necessary? Nature, for one brief, frozen moment, has imposed an answer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: POM (NYSE) (69%); WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: PEPCO HOLDINGS INC (69%); ARNOLD & PORTER LLP (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (56%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (56%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); ; UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; EDITORIALS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



547 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Price Of Korea

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
For Americans, the most dangerous foreign problem of the moment is neither Bosnia, the Mideast nor Russia but the one they are paying the least attention to. It is playing itself out in Washington, Vienna and a country only a handful of Americans have ever seen, or want to.
If any crisis boils over, the one guaranteed to involve American forces is North Korea's drive for nuclear weapons. The crossroads for both countries could be four or five weeks away. 
 U.S. Government experts believe North Korea already has a nuclear explosive device, or is a screwdriver away, so close that it has to be considered as nuclear-armed.
Americans remain casual because the Clinton Administration, which inherited the latest Korean problem from the Reagan and Bush Administrations, has not spoken lucidly and fully about it to the public.
Faced with the possibility of war with North Korea, the Administration has done a "lousy job" of explanation to the public -- the sum-up of one high official. After poking around, I think the reason is that Mr. Clinton is not keen on saying that if North Korea does not do as he asks his options run from risky to unacceptable.
For that, the American people can blame not Mr. Clinton but a quintessential act of appeasement and betrayal that took place a year before he was born.
In 1945, after World War II, America turned over half of Korea, a unified country brutally colonized by Japan, to Joseph Stalin.
Add the last seven years of American diddling about North Korean moves to nuclear power and here we are -- way up the creek of our mistakes, waiting for the President to produce a magic paddle.
Mr. Clinton is asking North Korea to allow unconfined scheduled and unscheduled inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency, based in Vienna.
But North Korea has delayed and defied for so long that there is no guarantee that the safeguards left behind to spot violations between on-site inspections are now credible -- that camera batteries functioned continuously, for instance.
U.S. officials say that every passing day puts another nick in the credibility. And this week North Korea stalled agency inspections again. In mid-February the agency will meet in Vienna to decide on that. If it says North Korean delays could have allowed it to push unseen toward nuclear power, what then? Mr. Clinton would have to answer in any full briefing of the public.
Economic sanctions? To make them work, China, North Korea's ally, would have to agree; it has not.
How about bombing out North Korea's nuclear plants as Israel did in Iraq in 1981? But the U.S. does not know where all North Korean facilities are. Also: the Iraqi plant was not in operation. North Korea's are hot. What would be the fallout?
And consider this, brought up by Paul Leventhal, president of the Nuclear Control Institute: North Korean retaliation to bombing could result in vastly more fallout in the South than in the North.
South Korea, he says, has nine nuclear electric-power plants within easy range of North Korean bombers. They total 7,600 megawatts. North Korea has 5 megawatts at its suspect operating reactor, and 30 megawatts in a plant under construction. North Korean retaliatory bombing could bring Chernobyls, multiplied.
With only hard military options, the Clinton people talk in cool, careful language. That can be upsetting to the appeasement-wary. But the Administration denies, flat out, that it has accepted one-shot inspection to appease the North.
The U.S. hopes that North Koreans will accept the carrots of recognition, economic ties and maybe "peaceful" nuclear technology. That last could be an invitation to more trouble.
Two things might slow Pyongyang's risk-prone Communist monarchy. One is a private written Presidential promise -- if they bring it all to war they will be hanged when captured, no Saddam deal.
And without sacrificing his human rights stand, Mr. Clinton could tell the Chinese straight: Join us in embargo of North Korea or count us gone, along with any Beijing-Washington economic and political future.
On the North-South dividing line stand some American soldiers whose parents were not even born when the betrayal of Korea took place. Appeasement has a long life. Another generation always gets stuck with looking for the magic paddle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; ; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (89%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M RONALD REAGAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



548 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Not Broken, So Don't Fix It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is ironic that the Federal Reserve System, having maintained a stable price level, should come under essentially political attacks. 
 Representative Henry Gonzalez wants the Fed to publish its Open Market Committee deliberations with speed, to allow every political jackdaw to peck at them. And Senator Paul Sarbanes urges that the presidents of the 12 regional banks should be appointed by the President of the United States. This would subject the system to the baleful political influence it was designed to avoid and has successfully flourished without.
The Administration, through Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, wants to strip the Fed of its ability to regulate the banks whose deposits the Fed is charged to control. This is like telling the police to regulate traffic without arresting offenders. Other highly placed members of the Administration (perhaps the President himself) are screaming for the Fed's head in anticipation of a rise in interest rates -- which anyone with a sense of history knows is bound to take place, and should, to defend the purchasing power of the dollar.
Meddling with the Fed's performance politically can only vitiate its effectiveness.
 
SIDNEY WERTIMER
Clinton, N.Y., Jan. 13, 1994
The writer retired as a professor of economics at Hamilton College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WERTIMER, SIDNEY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



549 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Sanctions Make West Feel Better

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Strangling Serbia's Democrats" (Op-Ed Jan. 11), Veran Matic argues that the West's economic sanctions against Serbia have undermined the educated elites in Belgrade and so strengthened, not weakened, Slobodan Milosevic's political base. He ignores three crucial facts. 
 (1) President Milosevic held onto power during the collapse of Communism by adopting the Serbian nationalist program as his own in 1989, two years before the war started. Mr. Milosevic's popularity among ordinary Serbs, and their willingness to embrace a "Greater Serbia" ideology, did not result from, but caused the Yugoslav collapse and the war.
(2) Yes, there are many liberal-minded and courageous opponents of Great Serbian nationalism in Belgrade (Vesna Pesic's Civic Alliance; the weekly magazine Vreme; Mr. Matic's own Radio B 92), but they are a tiny minority with no chance of gaining power, sanctions or no. The only popular opposition parties that might be better than Mr. Milosevic are infected with the nationalist virus and would not undo the ethnic cleansing of Bosnia, if they could.
(3) Sanctions have had little practical effect on Serbia's conduct of the war and mainly soothe the Western conscience for failing to aid Bosnia.
In the end, the reason for sanctions is moral, not practical. If we refuse to lift a finger to defend Bosnia, at least the sanctions slightly redress the moral balance.
The "despair and apathy" Mr. Matic describes as afflicting residents of Belgrade are hardly comparable to the sufferings the people of Sarajevo and the rest of Bosnia have endured for 21 months, but at least they are a tiny taste for the Serbian people of their own medicine. If they want to stop the sanctions, all they have to do is wake up from their evil dream of Greater Serbia.
 
JAMES BARHAM
Lancaster, Pa., Jan. 11, 1994
The writer, a translator, lived in Belgrade for four years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA; ; SERBIA (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); 

PERSON: BARHAM, JAMES SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



550 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: New York Vote in '90 Humiliated Governor, Not His Opponent

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I take exception to your description of my campaign against Gov. Mario M. Cuomo as resulting in a "humiliating loss" for the Republican Party in 1990 (front page, Jan. 8). More than 850,000 citizens and residents of New York State voted for me and against Mr. Cuomo in the 1990 campaign. 
 Not so bad when you realize that I was the 19th (or whatever) gubernatorial choice of the Republican Party, which never, ever, supported me in the campaign. I and my staff got those 850,000-plus votes pretty much by ourselves.
The Marist College poll predicted, as did many in the news media, that I would not receive even 10 percent of the votes cast. I received 22 percent. The same poll predicted that Herbert London, the Conservative Party candidate, would get even fewer votes than I did. He got 21 percent. Incidentally, no matter how it is put, I got enough votes to keep the second line for the Republican Party.
Mario Cuomo was depicted as the 800-pound gorilla of politics, and the figure that was tossed around was that he could get 65 percent of the votes cast. He was the one humiliated because he got only 53 percent, with all the money, the state organizations behind him and the unions.
Mr. Cuomo just gave a State of the State Message that went down the same economic and financial lines I did, only I was four years earlier.
I warned that the state would suffer enormous job losses, and I have, unfortunately, been proved right. I warned that crime was getting out of hand, and that the criminals were taking control of the cities and the neighborhoods.
I called for perpetual imprisonment of constant offenders of capital crimes, and the Governor now follows suit. I talked about the need to cut taxes and how the city and state hotel taxes were detrimental to tourism, and now the Governor wants to reduce those taxes. I called for increases in the police forces, and now the Governor is advocating the same thing.
 
PIERRE A. RINFRET
Nantucket, Mass., Jan. 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: MARIST COLLEGE (57%); MARIST COLLEGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (57%); MARIST COLLEGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX RELIEF (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); CAPITAL CRIMES (64%); POLICE FORCES (63%); TAX LAW (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE A; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



551 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
RON D. DANIELS, the former executive director of the National Rainbow Coalition and deputy manager of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's 1988 Presidential campaign, has been named executive director of the Center for Constitutional Rights. He succeeds Miriam Thompson, who resigned to work as consultant on social justice issues.
The center, which litigates cases on issues like human rights, racial inequality and governmental misconduct, has offices in New York and Greenville, Miss. It was established in 1966 by lawyers who had worked in the civil rights movement in the South. 
 Mr. Daniels, 51, the author of a syndicated column that appears in more than 100 newspapers, is a visiting associate professor of black studies at the College of Wooster, in Wooster, Ohio. He will commute between the school and the organization's New York office until May.
"It has an extraordinary record in a range of fields, from racial justice and economic rights to international human rights," Mr. Daniels said yesterday. "As the first African-American director, I want to expand our relations with constituencies in the communities of color, and think we must increase our work on women's rights, on the environmental justice movement and in economic rights, with an emphasis on full employment." NADINE BROZAN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron D. Daniels

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (91%); CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (91%); NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (84%); NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (91%); CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (91%); NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (84%); NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (74%); LAWYERS (73%); WOMEN (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); MISCONDUCT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WRITERS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE; DANIELS, RON D; THOMPSON, MIRIAM JESSE JACKSON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994



552 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Dow Soars To a Close Above 3,900

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average passed another milestone yesterday by closing above the 3,900-point level for the first time. The breakthrough came just two weeks after it punched through 3,800.
Stocks have been buoyed all year by signals of steady economic growth, low interest rates, improving corporate profits and the belief that inflation is no immediate threat. Investors hungry for better returns are also pushing prices higher. 
 Joseph V. Battapaglia, managing director of Sterling Advisers, a division of Gruntal & Company, said he thought the market could go significantly higher. "We're in an era of low inflation, relatively stable interest rates and expanding global open economics," he said. "In that situation, America's large industrial base is well positioned to enjoy a new bout of expansion."
 
Dow Up 47.28 on Week
 Dennis E. Jarrett, chief market analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Company, said he believed the market was headed toward 4,000 points and perhaps past that.
Yesterday, the Dow industrials, the most widely followed stock market indicator, rose 22.52 points on the day and was up 47.28 points for the week to finish at 3,914.48.
Unlike on Thursday, when nearly all the other market barometers set closing highs, only the Nasdaq composite index set a record, finishing at 794.28, up 1.25 points. But the other indexes are still near record highs.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 346.2 million shares, up from 310.5 million traded on Thursday. While volume was heavy, the number of advancing and declining stocks showed a split market, as losing issues outpaced winners by 1,086 to 980.
The gains made by the Dow and in other quarters of the market came on the back of strong earnings reports from well-known companies like Caterpillar and improved outlooks for companies like Apple Computer.
Investor interest in cyclical stocks, which tend to rise quickly when economic growth picks up, also helped bolster blue-chip stocks.
But a softer bond market concerned with the pace of economic growth in the first quarter, and when and how much the Federal Reserve might push short-term interest rates higher, limited yesterday's stock market gains, analysts said. As rates rise, bonds can become a more attractive alternative to stocks.
Mr. Battapaglia said other factors fueling interest in stocks included the waning of inflation and renewed competitiveness in American industry.
"You're going to see ongoing strength in the capital-goods sectors, that include industrial companies such as Caterpillar, Detroit Diesel and General Motors," he said. "The technology sector, now intertwined with the capital-goods sector, has also led the stock market's expansion, with the best examples being Motorola, Texas Instruments, Intel, and even I.B.M., which just now is becoming competitive."
 
Railroads Seen as Strong
 Strength is also likely to be found in transportation stocks, particularly railroads, Mr. Battapaglia said. "They not only benefit from the natural recovery of the business cycle; they have gone through restructuring efforts way earlier than the basic industrial," he said.
Strong sectors over the last six to nine months include consumer cyclicals, which are best represented by automobiles, technology and the recent rejuvenation of basic industries like paper and forest products.
"That tells you the ones to avoid: the consumer staples; the financial sector, which has faded, and energy, which has not been beneficial in anybody's portfolio for the last year or two," Mr. Battapaglia said.
Among individual issues, Caterpillar, the Dow's mainstay yesterday, surged 4 5/8, to 98 5/8, after the company posted better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings of $1.46 a share.
Apple Computer rose 3 1/2, or 11.7 percent, to 33 3/8. Late Thursday, the company reported that its first-quarter net income fell 75 percent, but some analysts remained bullish on the longer-term outlook. Smith Barney Shearson raised its recommendation as did Merrill Lynch and Cowen & Company.
 
Despite Higher Earnings, a Drop

 
 Pairgain Technologies dropped by 2 to finish at 11 1/2, even though its third-quarter earnings rose to 17 cents a share, compared with 10 cents a share a year earlier. The company said its 1994 revenues would not match those of 1993, and Hambrecht & Quist downgraded the stock.
Shares of Mr. Coffee, the producer of automatic drip coffee makers, rose as much as 22 percent yesterday in Nasdaq trading to close at 14, up 2 1/4, a day after it said it had received an offer to enter into merger talks with a potential buyer it did not name. Sunbeam-Oster has been mentioned as a likely buyer.
Eldec surged as much as 32 percent in Nasdaq trading on news that several companies had expressed an interest in acquiring the aircraft systems manufacturer. The stock closed up 1 1/2, or 19.4 percent, to 9 1/4.
Shares of Computer Associates dropped by 3, to 38, extending their decline for a second day on heavy volume, after the company posted slower-than-expected revenue growth for its third fiscal quarter.
Silicon Graphics shares rose 1 3/4, to 24 7/8, on the New York Stock Exchange after the company reported strong fiscal second-quarter earnings late yesterday.
In Tokyo, Japanese stocks closed slightly higher yesterday. The Nikkei index of 225 issues ended at 19,307.43, up 123.51 points, or 0.64 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); GM (NYSE) (51%); TXN (NASDAQ) (50%); MSI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3519 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NEC (51%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GRUNTAL & CO INC (71%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (71%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); INTEL CORP (53%); DETROIT DIESEL CORP (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (50%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



553 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Trade Surplus Rises

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Japan's trade surplus, a chronic sore spot in its economic relationship with the rest of the world, soared to a record $120.4 billion last year, the Government reported today.
The 12.9 percent increase over the 1992 level came despite the sharp rise in the Japanese yen's value, which tends to weaken sales of Japanese exports and increase sales of more affordable foreign goods in Japan. 
 With the United States, Japan's trade surplus registered a third straight rise in 1993, gaining 15.2 percent, to $50.19 billion from $43.56 billion, the figures released by the Japanese Finance Ministry show.
The surplus with the European Union fell for the first time in three years, to $26.32 billion, down 15.6 percent. The trade surplus with Asian countries exceeded that with the United States for the first time at $53.59 billion, up 28.8 percent.
Japan calculates trade figures on a customs-clearance basis, in which freight and insurance costs are included in imports but not in exports.
Its snowballing trade surplus has been a major source of friction with trade partners, including the United States and European and Asian nations. They contend that entrenched protectionist Japanese policies hurt their economies by restricting access to Japan's domestic markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (95%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); JAPANESE YEN (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



554 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Setting Up Tent Cities As Nerves Fray After Quake

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The National Guard began erecting tent cities for earthquake victims today as jittery public officials promised other relief efforts for angry residents waiting in long lines to apply for aid.
The tumultuous opening of the Federal relief centers on Thursday prompted officials to dispatch National Guardsmen in riot gear today to patrol the lines that snaked through parks, fields and streets outside the centers. 
 At a center in Northridge, Dong Kim waited today to apply for aid to cope with the loss of his house and damage to his dry-cleaning business in the San Fernando Valley from the earthquake on Monday.
"They don't give us any suggestions and they don't give us any attention," he said. "They only give applications."
James Lee Witt, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, conceded that officials were surprised by the scope of the disaster.
"We probably underestimated the amount of people seeking assistance," he said this afternoon. "We were trying to hurry and help the victims and put in a much quicker system."
The National Guard erected the first tents this afternoon in a park in the Canoga Park section in the San Fernando Valley, about five miles from the earthquake's epicenter in Northridge. The tents, which are like those used in Florida after Hurricane Andrew in 1992, can hold as many as 1,500 people.
Officials said the death toll from the earthquake was now 55. Maj. Gen. Bill Stewart of the California National Guard estimated that 8,000 people were staying in shelters and 6,000 others in parking lots, parks or other public places.
He said the guard would erect tent cities at six places around the city, with space for at least 6,000 people. The tents will be equipped with generators and lights, General Stewart said, and various agencies will deliver food. He said the Guard's goal was to have a place inside for everyone before rains forecast for Saturday night.
Despite the urging of disaster officials, thousands of people have refused to move to Red Cross shelters, preferring to stay near their damaged homes.
Many residents of Hollywood, where old brick buildings were severely damaged, have refused to leave the area. "They don't want to leave their belongings, so they're living on the streets," said Jackie Goldberg, who represents the Hollywood area on the Los Angeles City Council. "People are very concerned about being separated from their families and their belongings."
Henry G. Cisneros, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who is in Los Angeles to help direct relief efforts, talked to reporters at a briefing in Encino today. "It's very important that people go to the shelters where there's food, medical aid, security, warmth and dryness," he said. "You hear children with wracking coughs."
Mr. Cisneros also said the Government would suspend normal procedures and immediately issue rent vouchers for temporary housing. The agency had planned to issue vouchers only after inspectors verified that applicants' homes were uninhabitable.
"All of us are in this for the long run, for as long as it takes," Mr. Cisneros said. "No one is going anywhere."
Nineteen additional relief application centers will be opened this weekend, bringing the total to 30, he said, and Federal employees will be flown in to help reduce long lines.
June Addams, a secretary and mother of three who was in line at a center in Van Nuys, said she viewed the shelters as a last resort. "They're overcrowded, noisy and it's hard to sleep," she said. "You have to stand in line for everything, food, to go to the bathroom."
 
Fear of Shelters
 Some people in line at relief application centers said they feared that the Red Cross shelters, set up in armories and other buildings, would be unsafe if another strong earthquake or aftershock hit. A series of aftershocks hit the area again today, four of them registering 4.2 or higher on the Richter scale of ground motion.
Applicants gasped and laughed nervously as the ground rocked under their feet during an aftershock this afternoon as they stood outside the relief center in Northridge. Some who had been vigilantly guarding their places in line by the building bolted toward the open field when the ground began to tremble. An emergency official who was about to brief reporters sprinted away from the building.
City inspectors, who are trying to determine whether tens of thousands of buildings are safe to inhabit, have looked at 2,800 buildings, identifying nearly 2,400 as damaged to some degree and another 440 as unsafe. They estimated that the damage to buildings alone is at least $376.8 million.
It will be days or weeks before many homeowners and apartment dwellers learn the extent of the damage to their buildings.
The aftershocks today damaged two Los Angeles police stations, the Wilshire Division and the Pacific Division, both on the west side of the city. Both stations were still being used.
Although the subway in downtown Los Angeles sustained no visible damage from Monday's earthquake, officials said the line would be shut down over the weekend to allow technicians to evaluate the structural soundness of the 1.8-mile stretch of twin tunnels where the trains run.
Education Secretary Richard W. Riley will travel to Los Angeles this weekend to join Mr. Cisneros, and other Administration officials who have been here since Monday.
 
Schools Are Closed
 Classes at Los Angeles public schools were canceled all week, and at least 35 of the 650 schools in the nation's second-largest school system may be too unsafe to use when classes resume on Tuesday, officials said.
For those who make it to the front of the lines at application centers or who reach on the Federal Emergency Management Agency's "800" number, a variety of assistance is available. In addition to temporary rent assistance, which can last as long as 18 months, some people may be eligible for low-interest loans of up to $100,000 to cover repairs to their homes and $20,000 for loss of personal property. Loans to damaged businesses could be as much as $1.5 million.
Some families may qualify for cash grants of up to $12,200 to cover disaster-related expenses under a California program. Assistance with Social Security, tax preparation, crisis counseling and earthquake-related unemployment benefits are also available.
 
Dissatisfaction with Politicians
 As victims struggled through a fifth day of frustration, some began to look for someone to blame. Criticism was scattered and unfocused, but it was clear that politicians on all levels have much to fear if the hardships continue.
"I'm a little tired and I'm a little angry," said Eddie Robles, a 67-year-old retired postal worker who had been standing in line for hours. "There's a lot of promises and a lot of red tape. It's just the system." He blamed Gov. Pete Wilson, who, he said, "made a lot of promises he's not keeping."
Marie McCullough, an inspector at a lock factory, focused her frustration on President Clinton. "It sounded real good yesterday: we'll have you in and out, no waiting," she said. "I'm homeless and living in a tent and I'm mad."
After spending four nights in their car or in lean-tos, Alfredo Deleon and his family prepared to move into the National Guard's large canvas tents.
"The babies are getting sick; my daughter has a cough," Mr. Deleon said. "Nighttime is really cold and we all squeeze together."
Monday's earthquake destroyed Mr. Deleon's home in the valley and the pizza restaurant where he worked. His children's school is damaged and closed. When he and his wife, Graciella, and their two small daughters crawl into the musty tents with two dozen other people, they will carry with them almost everything they have left.
Like many of the thousands camped in parks, he is wary of shelter under a roof. "What will happen when there is another earthquake?" he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As tents were being erected in Canoga Park for earthquake victims, a woman arrived with her belongings. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; NATIONAL GUARD (US) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; NATIONAL GUARD (US) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); SAN FERNANDO VALLEY (CALIF); HOLLYWOOD (CALIF); UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; FEDERAL AID (US) EARTHQUAKES (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); CITIES (78%); RIOTS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FAMILY (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); HURRICANES (70%); CHILDREN (65%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (55%); 

PERSON: WITT, JAMES LEE; FRITSCH, JANE MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



555 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
JAPAN LAWMAKERS REJECT REFORM
The upper house of Japan's Parliament rejected a political reform package, a stunning defeat for the Prime Minister, who had promised to end corruption. The vote left the Government in chaos. 1
THE FALLOUT ON TOKYO'S ECONOMY
News analysis: Although Japan's vote on reform caused a political storm, its greater impact may be on the country's economy and on relations with the United States. 5
CHINA MOVING ON PRISON VISITS
China has given the most serious indications to date that it will open its prisons and jails to inspections by the Red Cross, the international relief agency said. 3
BALKAN POLICY FOUNDERS
Ten days after NATO voted to support strong action to halt Bosnian violence, the policy on the Balkans is in disarray again, with the United Nations and allies bickering over who is to blame. 1
WESTERN AIDES TO RUSSIA RESIGN
Two leading Western economists resigned as advisers to the Russian Government, saying that the policies announced by the Prime Minister fundamentally would mean the end of economic reform. 4
GLIMPSE OF SOUTH AFRICA'S FUTURE
The African National Congress published a list of people it has nominated to replace the current all-white Government. The list of wildly disparate personalities was prepared after weeks of negotiating. 3
ARABS MAY END ISRAEL BOYCOTT
The Arab League's leader said after meeting with American officials that the group would consider at a March meeting whether to drop its 43-year-old boycott of companies that do business with Israel. 2
 
The son of the Syrian President died in an automobile crash. 2
Pashchana Journal: Making do in Ukraine's countryside. 4
 
National 6-9
 
LORENA BOBBITT ACQUITTED
A jury cleared Lorena Bobbitt of all criminal charges, concluding she was temporarily insane last June when she cut off her husband's penis with a kitchen knife. 1
RELIEF FOR QUAKE VICTIMS
Public officials ordered the erection of tent cities for earthquake victims and promised other new relief efforts as long lines of angry aid applicants formed outside Federal centers for a second day. 1
A COMMUTING NIGHTMARE
Thousands who work in the Los Angeles area but live in the Antelope Valley are facing a nightmarish drive on freeways, down residential side streets, and past homes damaged by the earthquake. 8
As aftershocks rattle Los Angeles, people ask, "When will it end?" 8
CABLE TV PLANS RATINGS
The cable television industry, in an effort to stave off Federal legislation aimed at restricting violent programming, plans to create a rating system with independent monitors who would grade programmers with a regular report card. 1
COURT TO REVIEW FREE SPEECH
The Supreme Court has agreed to decide whether judicial orders that keep anti-abortion protesters away from abortion clinics violate the constitutional right to free speech. 6
Abortion foes rallied in the capital, but in smaller numbers. 6
FRONTRUNNER FOR DEFENSE POST
President Clinton has narrowed his search for a new Defense Secretary to Deputy Defense Secretary William Perry, and will weigh his decision over the weekend, White House officials said. 6
CLINTON TO FILL CIVIL RIGHTS POST
President Clinton is expected to offer the post of Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights to Deval Patrick, a lawyer with ties to the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, officials said. 6
NEGOTIATING OVER HEALTH CARE
Health care experts in Congress and the Clinton Administration have begun to identify areas of possible compromise as they prepare to redesign the nation's health care system. 9
COUNSEL LOOKS FOR STAFF
Robert Fiske Jr., the new independent counsel in the case of President Clinton's Arkansas land dealings, is looking for seasoned prosecutors and intends to open an office in Little Rock, Ark. 9
 
Beliefs: Assessing "The Moral State of the Union." 7
 
Metro Digest 23
 
WATER MAIN RUPTURES
A 135-year-old water main ruptured in the 6-degree stillness before dawn in South Brooklyn, collapsing half a block of roadway, flooding dozens of houses, cutting off utilities to scores of buildings and closing the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel for the morning rush. 1
A BUSY COMMISIONER
New York City's Police Commissioner, William J. Bratton, has personally evicted a panhandler from a subway car and made an impassioned speech about civil rights in a busy two weeks. For the next nine months, he has more ambitious plans. 1
Neediest Cases 24
Business Digest 37
Arts/Entertainment 11-17, 49
Beverly Sills may be nominated as Lincoln Center chairwoman. 11
Benjamin Luxon, with faded hearing but strong voice. 11
Cold cuts theater-ticket sales. 13
Music: Kronos Quartet. 11
Sports 29-34
Obituaries 10
Allan G. Odell; Burma Shave executive who linked beards to bards.
Editorials/Op-Ed 20-21
Editorials
Slower, but surer, arms curbs.
Violence and the Bobbitts.
To close or not to close.
Where the sun never sets.
Letters
Anna Quindlen: The $ port$ report.
Russell Baker: Of course crime pays.
Stephen Koch: The Dimitrov conspiracy.
Lynn Woolsey: Reinvent warfare, humanely.
Bridge 17 Chronicle 22 Crossword 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); UKRAINE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: CABLE TV MONTGOMERY (51%); CABLE TV ARLINGTON (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); UKRAINE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (83%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); JURY TRIALS (68%); ACQUITTAL (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); CABLE INDUSTRY (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%); ABORTION (61%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (60%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



556 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: JAPANESE PREMIER LOSES SHOWDOWN ON VOTING REFORM

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 21

 BODY:
In a stunning defeat for Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, the upper house of Parliament today voted down a political reform package that was at the center of his bid to end corruption in Japan's political system.
The surprisingly large margin by which Mr. Hosokawa lost, 130 to 118, resulted largely from the defection of some Socialists in his governing coalition who feared that the overhaul of the electoral system would eliminate many of their party's seats. 
 Tonight leaders in all parties said the six-month-old Government was in chaos, and some speculated that it could collapse within weeks without accomplishing the one goal it was elected to achieve.
 
'On the Edge of the Cliff'
 "We are standing on the edge of the cliff," Tsutomu Hata, the Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, said on Japanese television. He said he could not "deny the possibility of a dissolution" of Parliament, leading to another round of elections in which Mr. Hosokawa's coalition would battle for a stronger mandate.
The Prime Minister vowed to try to revive some form of the legislation before Parliament goes out of session in a week, but his position has been greatly weakened.
Apart from political reform, the defeat threatens to derail, at least temporarily, progress toward Mr. Hosokawa's other goals: deregulating the country, weakening the iron grip of the bureaucracy and beginning an era of political and economic openness that would benefit the Japanese as well as their trading partners.
 
No Consensus on Economy
 With weeks or months of turmoil ahead, the eight-party coalition Government seems unlikely to agree on how to jump-start an economy mired in recession or on how to conclude a critical trade agreement with the United States.
If Mr. Hosokawa remains in office and meets with President Clinton in three weeks as planned, he seems certain to plead for more time on the trade accord. [News analysis, page 5.]
One bill in the political reform package rejected today would have banned corporate and individual contributions to individual politicians, a system that bred the bribery and influence-peddling scandals that brought down Japan's long-governing Liberal Democratic Party in July. It would also have instituted public financing.
Another would have redrawn every electoral district and changed the system so that just one representative rather than five or six would serve each district.
Though the Socialist Party leadership endorsed the four bills that made up the political reform program, some legislators saw it as their own political death warrant. A number feared that if Japan's cautious voters were choosing only one candidate per district, they would select a conservative.
In the end, 17 of the 73 Socialists in the upper house defected and voted no, and 3 did not show up. Only 5 Liberal Democrats joined Mr. Hosokawa's forces and voted yes.
 
Three Options, None Attractive
 While confusion reigned tonight over how Mr. Hosokawa would extract himself from his problems, he seems to face three main options, none of them very attractive.
The first is to take the bills back to the lower house, where the governing coalition is much stronger, and seek to override the upper house vote. That requires a two-thirds majority, though, and he stands almost no chance of winning. Even if the bills were approved, the coalition would still be in tatters, and a new one might have to be formed.
The second option is to form a committee of both houses that would race to come up with a compromise piece of political reform legislation before Jan. 29, when the parliamentary session ends. But any such plan would be greatly diluted and then would have to pass both houses by majority vote. Mr. Hosokawa might even be required to adopt wholesale a weak proposal made last year by the Liberal Democrats, which would in turn probably prompt more Socialists to bolt.
"There is a possibility that this strategy could succeed," said Minoru Mo rita, a prominent political commentator. "But it is not a high probability." Most Liberal Democrats privately advocate maintaining the status quo in which they thrived for decades. The Liberal Democrats have been looking for a way to kill the political reform effort without appearing to oppose it; now they have their chance.
The third option is for Mr. Hosokawa to resign or dissolve Parliament and call new elections in the hope of ridding the coalition of the Socialists and replacing them with candidates advocating broad changes in the electoral and financing system.
But Mr. Hosokawa made clear today that he desperately wanted to avoid a national vote. With the Japanese economy stuck in one of its worst downturns since the end of World War II, partners in the Government coalition fear that the public would see an election as an irresponsible move that would delay economic stimulus packages and tax cuts for months.
Asked at a news conference tonight about dissolving Parliament, Mr. Hosokawa said, "I am not considering such a course."
"We have to do something to allay the public's fears about the economy," he added.
Mr. Hosokawa's only real chance for survival is to prompt another rebellion within the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, which like his coalition has been slowly unraveling.
His Government was formed last year when dozens of Liberal Democrats left the party because it stalled on political reform. Since then a half-dozen more have left. But to survive, the Prime Minister would need many more, enough to allow him to oust many Socialists without losing his coalition's bare majority in Parliament.
The Liberal Democrats, who have steadily avoided addressing the issues that caused their party to spin apart, have vowed to try to return to power by forming a coalition of their own.
 
Liberal Democrats Are Split
 With the winds blowing so much in favor of overhauling Japan's system, the Liberal Democrats feel they have no choice but to publicly back reform, though the party is deeply split about what kind to favor. Many, for example, were alarmed by Mr. Hosokawa's plan to make it illegal for companies or individuals to donate money directly to politicians, because they cannot imagine life without that financing.
During the vote in the upper house today, the Liberal Democrats broke out in cheers as the 17 defecting Socialists marched up to the podium that dominates the chamber and cast green markers than indicated "no."
The drama of the vote and the confusion it touched off amounted to a remarkable spectacle for most Japanese, who for decades have been accustomed to one of the world's most stable governments and for whom the outcome of parliamentary votes has almost never been in doubt. It was a measure of the unpredictability that has suddenly gripped Japan that every major newspaper in the country failed to forecast the outcome of today's vote.
Since 1989 four Japanese Prime Ministers have lost their jobs, two because they were caught in scandals and two because of their failure to pass political reform legislation. Ultimately that failure touched off Japan's miniature political revolution last summer.
 
Done In by His Allies
 In the end, Mr. Hosokawa was sabotaged not by the Liberal Democrats but by the Socialists, his political allies.
For months strains have been building between the Socialists and the rest of the largely conservative coalition over issues ranging from Mr. Hosokawa's move to open Japan's rice market to plans to revive the economy. But the differences were papered over. The Socialists swallowed hard and voted with the coalition, knowing it was the only way to keep the Liberal Democrats out of power.
Some Socialists who broke ranks today argued that the proposed reforms in the electoral system would ultimately squeeze out smaller political organizations and eliminate dissenting views from national politics altogether.
"Since the characteristic of this country is conformity rather than diversity, Japan could end up being more autocratic, more monolithic," Masao Kunihiro, a leader of the Socialists who bolted, said in an interview the other day. "It is a pretty horrifying thought."
Of roughly 500 seats in the lower house, about 270 would be directly elected from districts under the reform bill. The rest would be at-large representatives drawn from party lists according to the proportion of votes each party received.
"I regret the vote, but we will still keep trying," Mr. Hosokawa said tonight of the reform package. "We still have time."
No one seems to know why Mr. Hosokawa let the bills come to a vote, eight days before the end of the session, without having all of his votes lined up. Some saw it as a sign of a lack of savvy about the backroom dealings of Tokyo.
One of Mr. Hosokawa's biggest problems is that he has been unable to articulate clearly how the reform bills would really change Japan -- make the system less corrupt and more responsive to voters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opposition lawmakers cheering yesterday as the upper house of the Japanese Parliament voted down the Prime Minister's political reform bills. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 5)
 
Chart: "Hosokawa's Choices" shows Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's three main options after his political reform legislation was defeated (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS PRIME MINISTERS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BRIBERY (77%); ETHICS (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



557 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Plan Isn't Cast in Stone

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Health care experts in Congress and the Clinton Administration have begun to identify areas of possible compromise as they prepare for negotiations over President Clinton's plan to redesign the nation's health care system.
In informal discussions with Congress and in interviews, Administration officials have expressed a willingness to compromise on important details of Mr. Clinton's plan, including cost controls and the structure of purchasing groups through which most Americans would obtain health insurance. 
 From the time he sent a bill to Congress in October, Mr. Clinton has voiced a general willingness to negotiate on nearly all elements of his proposal except the guarantee of universal health insurance coverage. Congress, which reconvenes on Tuesday, is already pressing the White House to translate that open-ended commitment into compromises on specific issues.
 
'Open to Discussions'
 Lawmakers and Administration officials say it is too early to start making deals or to begin formal negotiations. But through informal discussions they have identified several areas of potential compromise: Federal limits on private health insurance premiums, the structure of insurance purchasing cooperatives, known as alliances, and proposed cuts in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid.
"We are open to discussions in all three areas," Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, said in an interview. "We are well aware that they are likely to be the subject of negotiations."
Similarly, Ira C. Magaziner, the health policy coordinator at the White House, said: "We want to achieve the President's fundamental goals. We are certainly willing to listen to other people's ideas about how to accomplish those goals. There is no perfect solution."
Ms. Shalala said she and the President believed that "we ought to have open minds as we move through discussions with Congress," so long as the final legislation provides a comprehensive package of health benefits for all Americans and curbs medical costs.
The Administration's flexibility is in part a concession to political reality. The White House is responding to criticism that the proposal is too large and unwieldy and vests too much power in the Government. The critics include Democrats like Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee as well as many Republicans.
The Administration is also trying to rebut the idea that there is no health care crisis and that the need for change is less urgent now because medical inflation sank last year to the lowest level in two decades.
A big reason for the slowing increases in health care prices, economists in and out of the Government say, is the expectation that Congress will pass a bill to increase competition, control costs and promote the use of managed care.
 
'It's Premature'
 There is broad bipartisan support for the President's goal of guaranteeing health benefits for all Americans. But many lawmakers have expressed skepticism about details of his plan, particularly in the areas identified as ripe for negotiation.
Jeffrey L. Eller, a White House spokesman, said "it would not be prudent -- in fact, it's premature" -- to talk publicly now about possible compromises. Robert O. Boorstin, another White House spokesman, said, "It's not in the interest of the American people for Congress and the Administration to negotiate through the press."
In the first area of negotiation and possible compromise, premium limits, Mr. Clinton has proposed an elaborate scheme for Government regulation of health insurance premiums, under which a Federal agency would set enforceable "premium targets." If spending exceeded the target in one year, payments to doctors and hospitals could be reduced the next year to make up the difference.
A Democratic Congressional aide said: "Premium caps have a serious problem. They are hated by left and right." Conservatives see them as excessive Government interference with the market; some liberals favor more direct regulation of doctors' fees, hospital charges and drug prices.
Some members of Congress say the premium limits proposed by Mr. Clinton are too tight and must be loosened if Congress retains them at all. Under the Clinton proposal, the growth in per capita premiums would be limited to the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, starting in 1999.
Under Mr. Clinton's proposal, most people would obtain coverage through the regional health alliances. All companies with 5,000 or fewer employees would have to participate in these purchasing groups. Each state would be carved up into one or more alliances. No alliance could cross state borders. Each alliance would have exclusive authority to buy care for people living in its territory.
Mr. Magaziner said the purchasing pools needed to be big enough that insurance risks could be spread across a large number of consumers, all paying roughly the same premiums, regardless of whether they had a history of illness or disability. But a Federal health official said there was no magic in the number 5,000, and Mr. Magaziner said, "We are certainly willing to hear other people's ideas" on this and other questions.
Many members of Congress say they want to reduce the size of the alliances proposed by Mr. Clinton, and some Administration officials say they are willing to consider such changes.
 
Medicare and Medicaid Plans
 Another major question is whether the alliances should be mandatory, as Mr. Clinton wants, or voluntary, as some members of Congress prefer. These lawmakers say they intend to remodel the alliances so that they have less regulatory power than Mr. Clinton wants.
The President proposed dozens of changes in Medicare and Medicaid, the programs for the elderly and the poor, to slow the growth of those programs and to help finance other benefits. Most proposals would limit payments to doctors and hospitals, while some would require beneficiaries to pay more. Some would also provide new benefits to the elderly.
Members of Congress say they are unlikely to accept all the cutbacks proposed by Mr. Clinton. Influential lawmakers from New York and Chicago are resisting proposals to curtail Medicare payments to medical schools and teaching hospitals. Democrats from big cities are balking at Mr. Clinton's proposal to reduce payments to hospitals that serve disproportionate numbers of poor people, saying many such hospitals will need assistance even if their patients have insurance.
Administration officials say they are willing to consider alternatives that produce more modest savings in Medicare.
Mr. Clinton's proposal to require employers to buy health insurance for their workers appears to have substantial support in the House of Representatives. Members of the House Ways and Means Committee predict that their panel will recommend such an employer mandate. In the Senate, by contrast, Administration officials say they worry that supporters of the requirement for employers to pay for health insurance may be outnumbered by Republicans and conservative Democrats who oppose it.
Another vulnerable spot in Mr. Clinton's bill is his proposal for the Government to pay 80 percent of the cost of health insurance for early retirees who would otherwise be covered by their former employers in private industry. Representative Pete Stark, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said that would "give away tens of billions of dollars to major corporations for unfunded retiree liabilities."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH CARE PLAN (75%); MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MEDICAID (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHALALA, DONNA E (SEC); MAGAZINER, IRA C; PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (92%); JIM COOPER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



558 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Arab League May End Its Boycott Of Businesses Dealing With Israel

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The Arab League will consider scrapping its 43-year-old boycott of companies that do business with Israel at a meeting of its Foreign Ministers in March, the League's Secretary General said today.
The Secretary General, Esmat Abdel-Meguid, said after a meeting with the American Commerce Secretary, Ronald H. Brown, that the 22-member body would decide collectively whether to end the so-called secondary and tertiary boycotts of Israel. 
 Mr. Brown, who described the decision as a "significant breakthrough," said the United States' "preference would be for the entire boycott to be eliminated."
Mr. Abdel-Meguid said, however, the primary boycott was not discussed in his talks with Mr. Brown and that it would be maintained because Israel is still occupying Arab land. But the Arab League secretary went on to say he hoped the reasons for continuing the boycott "will fall away as quickly as possible."
 
10,000 Companies Blacklisted
 The secondary boycott blacklists some 10,000 companies that conduct business with Israel. The tertiary ban is directed at companies that deal with those on the blacklist. Arab states imposed them along with a primary boycott of all direct commercial and trade activities with Israel in 1951. As recently as last May, the Boycott Office added 13 companies to the list of those who conduct business with Israel.
The boycott has cost Israel $20 billion in export opportunities and $16 to $32 billion in lost investment, according to estimates prepared by the Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce.
A lifting of the boycott would theoretically allow Israel to tap into a huge Arab market of 250 million people and stimulate economic growth in the Arab world.
Israeli and American officials were hoping that the signing of the peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization in Washington in September would encourage Arab countries to ease the sanctions. But Arab officials have said that will not be possible before a comprehensive settlement.
Arab states have also said they intend to maintain their economic weapon until Israel eliminates its nuclear arsenal and reaches an agreement on water sharing.
But an Arab League official said the lifting of the secondary and tertiary boycotts is more likely since President Hafez al-Assad of Syria made a commitment to peace with Israel during his meeting with President Clinton in Geneva on Sunday.
"The Geneva summit strengthened the hand of the Arab parties that want to eliminate the sanctions," said the official. "We hope to remove the boycotts and eventually to lift the primary boycott in the framework of a comprehensive settlement."
Mr. Brown, on a weeklong tour of the region that has included visits to Saudi Arabia, Israel, Jordan and the West Bank, said Arab government officials and private businessmen are adopting a "pragmatic view" of the Middle East's economic future.
"I would argue that the boycott is crumbling of its own weight," he said. "Companies that have been placed on the so-called blacklist are in fact doing business in many Arab countries. It is clear that there is a significant erosion of the boycott in practice."
Last week, he said, a major Israeli business delegation was received by the King of Morocco.
Kuwait, once one of the strictest enforcers of the embargo, has dropped its blacklist of companies with business interests in Israel but said it would stick to the primary boycott. And other countries, Mr. Brown said, no longer enforce the secondary sanctions.
But the Arab League official said a continued stalemate between Israel and the P.L.O. could threaten the chances for lifting the boycott. The two sides have failed to resolve disputes, delaying the Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank town of Jericho and the Gaza Strip.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (72%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: ARAB LEAGUE H BROWN LTD (72%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARAB LEAGUE LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOYCOTTS; BLACKLISTING BOYCOTTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: ABDEL-MEGUID, ESMAT; BROWN, RONALD H (SEC) BILL CLINTON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



559 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: A Setback for Economy and U.S. Trade

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's devastating loss in Parliament today set off an upheaval in Japan's politics, but in practical terms, it seems likely to have an even greater impact on the country's faltering economy and its frayed relations with the United States.
Mr. Hosokawa had hoped that the legislation to clean up Japan's scandal-ridden electoral system would be the crowning achievement of his reform-minded Government, but in recent months the effort had become a bottleneck. 
 Because the governing coalition had decided that everything had to wait until the political reform bills were approved, there has been no significant progress on the urgent issues of pulling the world's second-biggest economy out of deep recession or concluding a deal with Washington on reducing Japan's towering trade surpluses.
 
New Problems for U.S.
 In both areas, the prospects have suddenly grown even more uncertain, creating some unpleasant new difficulties for the Clinton Administration.
Late last year, American officials began to relax some of the trade pressure on Mr. Hosokawa and expressed patience with his goal of passing the reform bills in the belief that he represented the best hope for a major opening of Japan's economy.
As was the case with Russia, where the United States threw its support behind President Boris N. Yeltsin, the Clinton Administration has been relying more on an individual in Japan than on a society or a political process.
With Mr. Hosokawa's future suddenly in jeopardy and another realignment possible among Japan's parties, American officials are being forced to reconsider the approach. Their political support for Mr. Hosokawa did not help him noticeably, and economic problems were not addressed.
 
Cloud Over Economic Package
 The Government had been expected to present a package of emergency measures to stimulate the economy next week, including an increase of perhaps $100 billion in public works spending and a big tax cut. Prices on the Tokyo stock market soared recently in anticipation of approval of the long-delayed measures.
Now Mr. Hosokawa is so preoccupied and so weakened politically that nobody expects the recession to be tackled right away, a development that is sending a shiver of apprehension through the business sector.
Even if a compromise package of electoral reform is hastily cobbled together and passed next week, as some are predicting, the divisions in what remains of Mr. Hosokawa's Government run so deep that the politicians are unlikely to override critics of its economic plan. The Finance Ministry, for example, is fighting large-scale reductions in income taxes on the ground they will create huge budget deficits.
The problems with the United States could be even trickier, and more frustrating for both sides.
Mr. Hosokawa is to meet with President Clinton in Washington in three weeks, in part to conclude a trade agreement that Mr. Clinton has said will be one of the cornerstones of future relations with Japan.
The Clinton Administration had vowed that it would succeed where previous administrations have failed by obtaining guarantees from Tokyo of tangible increases in American exports to Japan and reductions in Japan's surpluses. Japan's overall trade surplus came to more than $120 billion last year, and the surplus with the United States alone came to more than $50 billion.
The summit meeting on Feb. 11 was going to produce Japan's first down payment on that policy, with agreements to open the markets for autos, auto parts, medical equipment, insurance and telecommunications.
The Clinton Administration was also anxious to extract a promise that Japan would take strong measures to re-energize the economy.
 
A Breakthrough Is Unlikely
 But even if his Government survives until then, Mr. Hosokawa is expected to remain so weak that it is unlikely he will be able to face down the Government bureaucracy and produce the breakthrough that some in the Clinton Administration had been hoping for.
Over the last two weeks, the trade negotiations have grown unusually bitter, with American negotiators suggesting that the Japanese have been acting in bad faith, and the Japanese accusing the United States of trying to brutishly interfere in their markets.
The slow pace presents a stark choice to President Clinton. He can criticize Mr. Hosokawa for failing to satisfy American demands, and thus possibly weaken further a leader he clearly regards as an agent of change, or he can ease the pressure and give the Government time to rebuild, and risk fierce criticism in Congress from those who feel the United States has been manipulated.
"The meeting was already bound for failure," said Yukio Okamoto, a former senior Foreign Ministry official. "The American expectations were too inflated from the start. This is going to be unfortunate for the U.S.-Japan relationship."
Haruo Shimada, an economics professor at Keio University, said the Prime Minister "will go on the trip just waiting to be victimized. Clinton is likely to be unsatisfied. It could be a very destructive kind of summit."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ETHICS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); ELECTION LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); ETHICS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); INCOME TAX (61%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



560 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 The cable television industry, in an effort to stave off Federal legislation aimed at restricting violent programming, plans to create a rating system with independent monitors who would grade programmers. The plan also endorses the introduction of a device that would allow cable subscribers to automatically block out programs that are rated violent. The broadcast networks appear likely to accept at least part of the plan. [Page 1.]
 The Los Angeles earthquake and brutal winter weather in the East and Midwest have severely tested the nation's retailers. New technology has helped distribution systems respond to some of the logistical nightmares such disruptions can cause. [37.]
 
Companies
A Federal judge in New Orleans approved the largest class-action settlement stemming from the limited-partnership fraud scandal at Prudential Securities. The ruling means that more than $90 million will be returned to about 115,000 investors. [37.]
In another switch, the board of Paramount Communications terminated its merger agreement with QVC Network and urged shareholders to back the latest bid from Viacom Inc. QVC's investment bankers contended that the board was misled. [37.]
Boeing, seeing a small pickup in the airline industry, has scaled back the jobs reduction it had planned for 1994 by 14 percent. And the company said it would add employees at a plant in Kansas. [39.]
Departing from Japan's tradition of lifetime employment, Toyota Motor is planning to hire some automobile designers for high salaries under one-year contracts. The auto maker hopes to revitalize its design department by attracting talented people who do not want to spend their entire careers at one company. [39.]
After two years of losses, Caterpillar posted a strong gain for 1993. Its shares jumped in heavy trading on the Big Board. [39.]
Westinghouse Electric reported a steep loss of $478 million for the quarter, as a result of a $750 million charge to cover the cost of layoffs and a streamlining of the company. [39.]
Immunex, a biotechnology company that merged with Lederle Laboratories' oncology business in June, named Lederle's president as its new chairman and chief executive. [39.]
 
International
 China agreed to give greater access to American and other foreign banks. The announcement by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and the Beijing Government said China would also allow foreign banks to do business in local currency. Mr. Bentsen also said the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, would visit Beijing to consult on monetary policy.[37.]
The Arab League will consider ending its 43-year-old boycott of companies that do business with Israel at a meeting of its foreign ministers in March. About 10,000 companies are blacklisted. [2.]
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's defeat in the Japanese Parliament is expected to further delay efforts to lift the economy and to reach trade accords with the United States. [5.]
 
Markets
 The Dow Jones industrial average broke through the 3,900-point mark for the first time. The advance by the blue chips was propelled by several strong earnings reports. [37.]
The price of the Treasury's 30-year bond slipped in light trading amid some worries that political uncertainty in Japan could lead Japanese investors to sell their Treasury holdings. [46.]
Gold prices fell sharply for the second day as investors sold off in frustration over the market's failure to reach $400 an ounce. [48.]
The dollar recovered against the yen and European currencies. A political defeat for Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan prompted an early selloff in the dollar. But bargain hunters later drove the currency back up. [48.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (69%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); TYT (LSE) (54%); TM (NYSE) (54%); 7203 (TSE) (54%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (67%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (83%); VIACOM INC (69%); BOEING CO (55%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (54%); PFIZER INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); MERGERS (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (68%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ONCOLOGY (61%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); SCANDALS (54%); AIRLINES (51%); BOYCOTTS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



561 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: 2 Western Economists Quit Russia Posts

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Two leading Western economists resigned today as advisers to the Russian Government, saying the "aims and policies" announced by Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin mean the end of fundamental economic reform.
In response, Mr. Chernomyrdin's spokesman quoted him as saying the new course of reforms "of course contains elements of Western market economics, but mainly takes into account the special characteristics of our state, people and Russian traditions." 
 Mr. Chernomyrdin had never used the services of the Western economists, Jeffrey Sachs and Anders Aslund, in any event, the spokesman, Valentin Sergeyev, told the Itar-Tass news agency. He quoted the Prime Minister as saying, "The mechanical transfer of Western economic methods to Russian soil has done more harm than good."
Mr. Chernomyrdin's remarks may simply be the result of wounded patriotism. But combined with his statement Thursday that "the period of market romanticism is over" and his instructions to a first meeting of the new Cabinet today to help industrial enterprises increase production, his new comments will fuel Western concern that the Russian economy may spin into hyperinflation as efforts to control the money supply are abandoned.
 
Slower Approach Favored
 Mr. Chernomyrdin favors a slower, softer transition to a market economy, with more state support for Russia's huge inherited enterprises and their extensive work forces. He encouraged the new Cabinet -- minus the reformist Yegor T. Gaidar and Boris G. Fyodorov as Economics Minister and Finance Minister respectively -- to try to avoid confrontation with the newly elected Parliament, where Communists and ultranationalists outnumber reformers in the lower house.
While Mr. Chernomyrdin probably represents the political consensus of Russians just now, Western diplomats and economists fear that his stress on state support for industry and agriculture, without the presence of a strict Finance Minister, will result in spiraling inflation by April, a collapsing ruble and reduced living standards.
As Mr. Sachs and Mr. Aslund prepared to move their staff out of Government offices and find private foundation support for their Russian economists, aides to an otherwise silent President Boris N. Yeltsin stressed his continuing devotion to "economic reform" and his need to compromise with political reality in forming the new Cabinet, dominated by Soviet-era bureaucrats and managers.
And a debate began to swirl around the culpability of Western nations and institutions in the perceived collapse of Western-style and Western-endorsed economic reforms.
 
'Stabbed Us in the Back'
 Mr. Fyodorov was particularly bitter about post-election comments by Strobe Talbott, the American Ambassador at Large to the former Soviet Union who has been chosen to be the new No. 2 official at the State Department.
"He actually stabbed us in the back," Mr. Fyodorov, who is 35 and can be outspoken and brash, said of Mr. Talbott late Thursday night. After the strong showing of anti-reform parties in the elections, Mr. Talbott said in Washington that the lesson for Russia might be "less shock and more therapy," a quip that was interpreted as new policy and that received enormous play in Russia.
As stated, it implied that "shock therapy" had been applied by the reformers in Russia and had created significant popular hardship, though Mr. Talbott stresses that his statement in context was a call for broader reform, not slower reform, with more attention to social protections.
 
Used by Opposition
 Mr. Talbott, after unhappy reactions from Moscow and other Administration officials, especially in the Treasury Department, retracted the essence of the remarks. But by then, Mr. Fyodorov said, "they were publicized very much by the opposition." Without meaning to, he said, Mr. Talbott "helped the opposition, and he helped certain forces to influence the decision-making process here."
Mr. Gaidar and Mr. Fyodorov have argued that they have never been able to apply real "shock therapy," at least not after the spring of 1992, and that the biggest pain in Russia has resulted from too little radical economic reform, not too much.
"When Strobe Talbott says less shock and more therapy," Mr. Fyodorov said bitterly, "I'd like to ask him what kind of shock therapy is it when inflation is 20 percent a month, where there have been only five bankruptcies up until now, when official unemployment is only 1 percent? Or is he not familiar with shock therapy in other countries?"
In an interview, Mr. Talbott responded to Mr. Fyodorov's remarks by saying: "Our position has always been -- and is now -- that Russian reform should go forward full speed. That is in the interest of the Russian people, and it will also enable the international community to support the reform process."
Dee Dee Myers, the White House spokesman, also defended Mr. Talbott, saying his comments about "less shock, more therapy," had been taken out of context from a news briefing where he called for broad and rapid reform and a stronger safety net.
At the daily White House briefing, she said, "Strobe's position and the position of others in the Administration, including the President, starting with the President, are that the Russian economy needs continued reform and help in cushioning the impacts of reform on the Russian people."
 
Gaidar Doesn't Blame Yeltsin
 Mr. Gaidar said today that he did not blame Mr. Yeltsin, who wants to continue reforms, but that he must adapt to reality. "If the democrats had been united and had run the election campaign better, the President would be in a better position now," he told the Interfax news agency.
His comments were echoed by a Yeltsin aide, Pyotr Filippov, who told Itar-Tass that Mr. Yeltsin "has to keep balance between various forces" and might support a Fydorov deputy, Sergei Dubinin, for Finance Minister.
Russian officials said Mr. Chernomyrdin was looking at another experienced Soviet-era official as Finance Minister, Vladimir I. Shcherbakov, 45. He had worked for huge Soviet automobile plants and became Minister in 1991 of what had been Gosplan, the state planning committee, as it tried to shift toward economic forecasting under Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
In separate telephone interviews, Mr. Sachs and Mr. Aslund said that no official had asked them to resign, and that they would continue to work outside the Government with a group of Russian economists they had gathered in a Finance Ministry working group for economic reforms.
Mr. Sachs said the Talbott remarks were unfortunately seen in Moscow by the reformers "as an abandonment of these people, and it felt that way in the political fight under way." But he said the largest responsibility for the collapse of this effort at classic reform lay with the International Monetary Fund, which had been charged with carrying out Western efforts to help economic change in Russia.
Mr. Aslund said the new Government marked an end to fundamental economic reform. "After vacillating back and forth on reform, Russia has now really abandoned the course of fundamental reforms," he said. "The new policies will be destabilizing, with big social costs. But there is no going back to the command economy."
He said he was not optimistic that the country would again turn to the reformers. "They are extremely poorly organized now," he said.
The Gorbachev-era reform economist Pavel S. Bunich was more optimistic in comments to Delovoy Mir. Corrections to reform were needed, he said, but no more than 15 degrees. "But I'm convinced that nobody will dare go further, not Chernomyrdin or anyone else," he said. "And this means that nothing terrible or tragic will happen."
Pravda had its own view on this 70th anniversary of Lenin's death, predicting, "The democratic crusade against Lenin is close to its inglorious end."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Clinton Cites Inflation

WASHINGTON, Jan. 21 (Reuters) -- President Clinton said today that he did not think reform was over in Russia, but that his Administration was worried about whether Russia will be able to cope with its inflation.
"What we're concerned about obviously is whether they'll be able to manage their inflation problem," Mr. Clinton said. He spoke at the start of an Oval Office meeting with King Hussein of Jordan.
Mr. Clinton said how much economic help Russia gets from the international community "will be directly related to what kind of reforms they decide to undertake," adding that "they'll have to make those decisions for themselves."
"We're prepared to help and do what we can," he said. The United States was prepared to help set up job training, unemployment assistance and other "support systems" that a market economy needs, he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INFLATION (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); MONEY SUPPLY (66%); FOUNDATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SACHS, JEFFREY D (PROF); ASLUND, ANDERS; ERLANGER, STEVEN; CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



562 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar in Recovery vs. Yen And Rises in Other Trading

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar gained ground in the foreign exchange market yesterday, staging a strong recovery against the Japanese yen that carried it higher against European currencies as well.
The dollar had crumbled against the yen overnight on fears that Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan would have little ability to deal with urgent economic problems or frayed United States trade ties after suffering a crushing political blow. 
 Mr. Hosokawa, who was swept into office as the head of a coalition government chosen by an electorate tired of political scandals, had staked much on passage of an economic reform package. But Parliament rejected the package yesterday.
 
U.S. Action Foreseen
 The White House has repeatedly put pressure on Japan to stimulate its economy and relax restrictive trade barriers to allow the United States to sell more goods there. Barring progress on those fronts, dealers suspect the United States may press for a stronger yen as a way to trim Japan's trade surplus. Yesterday, Japan reported that its trade surplus with the rest of the world soared to a record $120.4 billion last year.
 But the dollar's selloff was short-lived, as bargain hunters, convinced that a robust American economy argued for a stronger currency, scooped up dollars.
"A lot of people were looking to buy at the lower levels," said Ken Nixon, corporate sales officer of Harris Trust and Savings Bank in New York. "When the dollar fell through 110 yen, they jumped on board and the rally snowballed."
The outcome of tomorrow's meeting of Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, Mr. Hosokawa and the Japanese Finance Minister, Hirohisa Fujii, could determine the dollar's direction, dealers said.
The dollar rose to 111.55 Japanese yen in late New York trading, from 111.37 yen on Thursday.
Earlier, the dollar touched a low of 109.70 yen in European trading overnight before rebounding as dealers bought back some dollars sold earlier this week. The dollar fell Thursday against most currencies after Germany's central bank failed to cut interest rates.
The dollar rose to 1.7524 marks in late New York trading from 1.7375 marks on Thursday.
Meanwhile, the British pound closed in New York at $1.4917, down from $1.4975 on Thursday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Thursday's quotes, included: 1.4674 Swiss francs, up from 1.4555; 5.9470 French francs, up from 5.9110; 1.3113 Canadian dollars, up from 1.3109, and 1,706 Italian lire, up from 1,696.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (61%); 

PERSON: MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



563 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Bank Rules Are Eased By China

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 21

 BODY:
China's Finance Minister agreed today to allow some American and foreign banks to expand into some cities of China now closed to them and to accept deposits in Chinese currency.
American and other foreign banks have been pressing the Beijing Government to open more areas of the country to foreign financial service companies, which hope to play a lucrative role as a bridge between China's tremendous appetite for investment capital and the huge interest abroad in investing in the development boom here. Infrastructure investment in China alone between now and the end of the century is expected to top $500 billion.
 
Joint Effort Is Revived
 Finance Minister Liu Zhongli's announcement of wider access in financial services came as part of a joint statement from himself and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, after a meeting of the two nations' Joint Economic Committee. The committee, founded in 1979, had been a forum in which China and the United States worked out economic problems, but it had not met since the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre. It was revived today by Mr. Bentsen and Mr. Liu. 
 They agreed to start meeting again annually and to establish sub-Cabinet groups that would deal with monetary and banking policy, exchange-rate reform and investment and economic cooperation.
 
Planning a Visit
 Mr. Bentsen also announced that the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, planned to visit Beijing to consult with the Chinese authorities on monetary policy. The Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Bentsen also said, is discussing an agreement to help China establish and regulate "an effective securities market." And, he said, the Treasury's Customs Service will provide China with assistance in monitoring trade.
All of this reflects the Clinton Administration's effort to step up engagement with China along a broad front. The idea is to give the Beijing authorities a greater incentive to meet American human rights demands that are the condition for renewing China's preferential trade benefits in June.
The most important initiative from the Chinese side was the Finance Minister's commitment to expand the range of opportunities in China for American banks and financial service companies, particularly the right of foreign banks to do business in local currency -- the renminbi.
American officials said that what this commitment meant was that some American and other foreign banks would be allowed to expand the number of cities in which they could open branches. Also, a few of them would be allowed for the first time to accept accounts in Chinese currency. This would also give foreign banks the opportunity to expand beyond the relatively limited area of financing trade, to providing small-business loans, mortgages, car loans and inventory loans -- all in local currency.
Most of the world's largest banks are doing business in China in a limited way now, including some of the largest financial institutions in Japan, Western Europe and the United States. Among the American banks are Citibank, Bank of America, Chemical and Chase Manhattan. Generally, these banks have representatives in Beijing and Shanghai or other cities in China to offer trade financing and other services. But they cannot accept deposits under existing regulations.
Like so many other Asian nations, China has been reluctant to open domestic banking markets to foreign financial institutions for fear of losing some control over the money supply. At a time when inflation in China is running at 20 percent annually and the Government is trying to better control credit, this is an important issue.
Chinese officials refrained, for now, from specifying which new cities will be open to foreign bank branches, or which foreign banks will be involved in the experiment with local currency deposits.
Secretary Bentsen said this experimental move was important, but he added that he had strongly urged his Chinese counterpart to liberalize the financial services market quickly to benefit "both China and the United States."
Before leaving Beijing for Shanghai, Mr. Bentsen summed up his talks with Chinese leaders by saying that "there has been progress but more remains to be done," if the Chinese hope to have their most-favored-nation trade benefits renewed in June.
While Mr. Bentsen expressed the Administration's satisfaction with Thursday's agreement allowing more inspections of Chinese prisons to insure that their factories are not producing goods for export to the United States, he stressed that this was only part of what President Clinton was demanding as a condition for renewing the trade benefits, which allow China to export its products to the United States at the lowest possible tariff rates.
An accounting of China's political prisoners and visits to them by the International Committee of the Red Cross were two other important American demands, which China is considering but has not yet met.
"I hope sufficient progress can be made so we can put this issue behind us and there will not be an annual review" of the most-favored issue any longer, Mr. Bentsen said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



564 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bonds Dip in Light Session

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury bonds slipped in a light, uneventful session yesterday as traders treaded cautiously ahead of financial uncertainty over the weekend.
The price of the Treasury's main 30-year bond dropped 3/16yesterday to 9920/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.28 percent, from 6.26 percent on Thursday. 
 There was little fresh economic news to push Treasury bond prices outside the narrow range of buying and selling that has dominated trading so far this year.
"The market has been stuck in a range since the beginning of November and nobody seems to want to do much to get out of it," said John Canavan, an analyst with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates Inc. in Princeton, N.J.
 
Traders Cite Japan's Ills
 Traders were cautious after Japan's Parliament rejected an economic reform package yesterday. The vote came after the Tokyo stock market closed. Traders said they were worried that the Nikkei index of 225 leading issues could plunge when trading renews on Monday. This could force Japanese investors to sell their holdings of United States Treasury securities -- taking profits in bonds to minimize their stock losses.
At the same time, traders are concerned about the market's ability to digest a coming flood of fresh securities. The Treasury is scheduled to sell $17 billion in two-year notes on Tuesday and $12 billion in five-year notes on Wednesday, the first of several auctions over the next month.
The Banco Nacional de Comercia Exterior of Mexico priced $1 billion in bonds in a global offering that analysts said met mixed demand from investors worried about political violence in Mexico. The deal was viewed as meeting weaker demand than the only other global note offering from a Latin American issuer, Argentina's $1 billion sale in December.
Underwriters originally hoped to sell the 10-year notes at a yield of 1.50 to 1.55 percentage points above the comparable Treasury note, but ended up selling them at 1.60 to 1.65 percentage points above, said John Atkins, a corporate bond analyst for Technical Data.
That reflected caution among investors who wanted to earn a higher return to be compensated for uncertainty in Mexico, including recent turmoil in the southern Mexican state of Chiapas, he said.
"Something like this military uprising goes a long way to dampen sentiment for a country's closely held credits," Mr. Atkins said.
Prices of short-term Treasury securities were unchanged to 1/16 lower, and intermediate maturities fell 1/8 to 5/32 , the Telerate Inc. financial information service reported.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, reflecting price movements on bonds with maturities of a year or longer, fell 1.05, to 1,310.74.
Yields on three-month Treasury bills rose to 3.01 percent as the discount rose one-hundredth of a percentage point, to 2.95 percent. Six-month yields rose to 3.19 percent as the discount rose two-hundredths of a point, to 3.11 percent. One-year yields held at 3.47 percent as the discount held at 3.35 percent.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 10325/32 , up 3/32 from Thursday. The average yield to maturity was 5.51 percent, down from 5.52 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (60%); TRI (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (60%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (76%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (76%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (97%); TREASURY SECURITIES (95%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



565 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs;
Index of Good Deeds: Down 25. Index of Good Thoughts: Up 4. Index of Prejudice: Unchanged.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
President Clinton will deliver his State of the Union Message this Tuesday from the Speaker's rostrum of the House of Representatives. But symbolically he will also be occupying the Presidency's bully pulpit. It will be surprising if the President does not seek to assess the moral and spiritual state of the nation as well as its political and economic condition.
Others, however, have been beating him to the punch. Recently, a group of social scientists, including the polltakers Daniel Yankelovich and Everett C. Ladd, the political scientist Norman Ornstein and the sociologist Seymour Martin Lipset, answered a call to assess "The Moral State of the Union." 
 The invitation came from The Responsive Community, the quarterly journal of communitarianism. That is the movement, mainly of maverick liberals, that tries to marry typically liberal concerns for civil rights and economic welfare with traditionally conservative concerns about the ability of families, neighborhoods and schools to build character and foster personal responsibility.
The resulting articles turned out to be more of a debate than an assessment. It was a Ping-Pong match between familiar cries of alarm over rising rates of violent crime, family disintegration and teen-age suicide and equally familiar reminders that Americans have always bemoaned the moral excesses of the moment and contrasted them with the good old days.
Even if this go-round was inconclusive, the very idea of measuring "the moral state of the union" remains intriguing.
What the communitarians had in mind, of course, was something more systematic, more comprehensive, than the opinions preachers volunteer on Sundays and taxi drivers dispense any day of the week. As it turns out, others have had the same idea.
William J. Bennett, a former Secretary of Education and anti-drug czar, is about to publish a slim paperback volume titled "The Index of Leading Cultural Indicators" (Touchstone, Simon & Schuster). It claims to be "a comprehensive statistical portrait of our moral, social and cultural condition."
Then there is the even slimmer "Index of Social Health" that appeared last October. Published annually since 1987 by Fordham University's Institute for Innovation in Social Policy, which is in Tarrytown, N.Y., the index is meant to provide "a method of monitoring the social well-being of American society."
Both reports are inspired by the hope of doing for the nation's social, cultural and even spiritual life what measuring sticks like the Index of Leading Economic Indicators, the Consumer-Price Index, the Gross Domestic Product or the Dow Jones Average do for the economy.
Is that a doomed attempt to measure the unmeasurable? Is American society just too big and too riddled with contradictory tendencies to be squeezed into any set of numbers?
How do you register the kindness of neighbors and the generosity of strangers during floods, fires and earthquakes? Can you balance them against riots or drive-by shootings or the silent plaintiveness of "no radio" signs in parked cars to reach some bottom line about the moral state of the union?
Those constructing social indexes would agree that generosity or fear cannot be quantified. But they would argue that figures on charitable contributions or the number of citizens who feel they cannot go out at night provide a reliable substitute.
The differences among these three reports deserve to be noted, however. Mr. Bennett is perfectly clear about what his statistics mean to him. "Exploding social pathologies," he writes, are leading "to the decline and perhaps even to the fall of the American republic."
This decline-and-fall outlook may have influenced Mr. Bennett's choice of cultural indicators and the way he presents them. Crime, juvenile homicides, school dropouts, teen-age pregnancies and out-of-wedlock births are there, as they are in the other reports. He adds abortion, time spent watching displays of violence and sex on television and a host of other bleak details.
He does not deal with the kind of data cited by Mr. Ladd and Mr. Lipset, indicating, for example, that many social norms about lying, stealing and marital fidelity remain intact in American society; that Americans are much more likely to believe in absolute moral standards than Europeans and Canadians; that cheating in schools, while still widespread, has actually decreased since 1959. (Of course, Mr. Bennett might reply that the problem of cheating has been eclipsed by problems like drugs and guns in the corridors.)
Not content to let the statistics speak for themselves, Mr. Bennett adds interpretive quotations from Plato, George Washington, Hillary Rodham Clinton and a host of others, including communitarian academics. The book carries a blurb from Rush Limbaugh, who some people feel is a leading cultural indicator all by himself.
The brief "Index of Social Health" is a very different kind of document. It sticks to the neutrality of numbers. It puts a heavy emphasis on economic conditions like unemployment, poverty among children and the elderly and the gap between the rich and the poor.
Finally, on the premise that the nation's social health is not so much shaped "by any one social problem, but by the combined effect of all of them," the report combines its findings on 16 separate social problems into a single index of social health.
Unlike Mr. Bennett and the communitarians, the Fordham index does not try to sort out moral factors from economic ones. The convergence occurs in its somber conclusions: the nation's social health has declined by more than half since 1970, from a level of 74 on the index to one of 36.
Two weeks ago some of the contributors to The Responsive Community's issue on "The Moral State of the Union" discussed their views at a public meeting in Manhattan. Amitai Etzioni, the journal's editor, said the cautions against alarmism were well taken.
Nonetheless, he added, "The time to rebuild your home is when the first major cracks appear, not when the foundations have crumbled."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY; COMMUNITARIAN NETWORK (ORGN) SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (59%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY; COMMUNITARIAN NETWORK (ORGN) FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (59%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; ETHICS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CULTURE LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ETHICS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); FAMILY (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); SUICIDE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); TRENDS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (68%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); VIOLENT CRIME (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (62%); RIOTS (60%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; YANKELOVICH, DANIEL; LADD, EVERETT C; BENNETT, WILLIAM J BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



566 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Concedes Chance Of Higher Property Taxes

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman said today that her plan to cut income taxes should not force New Jersey municipalities to raise property taxes to make up for reductions in state aid. But she warned that she would not hold herself responsible if local spending decisions prompted higher taxes.
"I can't guarantee anything over areas over which I have no control," Mrs. Whitman told reporters here after a speech to the winter meeting of the Republican National Committee. She said she should not be blamed if, for example, localities made wage settlements exceeding the amount of state aid they receive. 
 "There's going to have to be a level of discipline imposed at all levels of government, but my responsibility is to insure that the cuts that we talk about in order to meet the tax cut are not so Draconian as to require that local taxes go up," the Governor said.
 
A Call for Discipline
 Throughout her campaign, Mrs. Whitman said she saw no reason why her proposed 30 percent income tax cut over three years should force property tax increases, while Gov. Jim Florio warned repeatedly that it would. Her remarks today acknowledged that possibility, but she took pains to say it would not be her fault.
On Thursday, the Governor's Treasurer-designate, Brian W. Clymer, said in his confirmation hearings before two state Senate committees that localities would have to become more efficient or risk service cuts and that the state would send in auditors to help find local savings. He insisted that not every dollar in state cuts need translate into an added dollar in local taxes.
At another point today, Mrs. Whitman said: "What I have indicated to my Treasurer that I want to see stay the same is current levels of municipal aid, but if the municipalities are going to go into their own negotiations, and not institute discipline on themselves, or counties are going to do the same thing and to continue to give contracts that are far above the rate of inflation or what they can anticipate in seeing in new revenues from the state, then they're going to have a problem."
William G. Dressel, executive vice president of the New Jersey League of Municipalities, said that he took the Governor at her word and that he hoped the state would reduce waste and avoid cutting aid to localities.
 
Binding Arbitration Criticized
 But he warned that even maintaining the current levels of state aid would amount to cutting it, since local costs are rising markedly.
And he noted that municipalities sometimes have relatively little control over their labor settlements with the most costly workers -- uniformed emergency service workers. That is because state law imposes binding arbitration in disputes, with the settlements based on past practice and pattern with little regard for a municipality's ability to pay.
He said Mrs. Whitman might wish to propose changes in the law to require arbitrators to consider ability to pay.
"Will taxes go up?" Mr. Dressel said. "Well, taxes will go up if we're talking about maintaining the same level of funding and the same level of services, because the costs of operating local governments have gone up. I can absolutely assure you that for every dollar cut in state aid there will be a dollar increase in local taxes."
 
A Focus on New Jersey
 In her luncheon speech to state and national Republican Party leaders, Mrs. Whitman drew warm laughter when she noted the persistent skepticism that had greeted her pledge to cut the income tax.
"I think the only time that I got 10 days much less two weeks off of not having to answer 'Are you really going to cut taxes and how do you think you can possibly do it and isn't this crazy?' was when Ed Rollins chose to talk to the entire press corps of Washington, D.C., at breakfast," she said. In a boast later denied and discredited, Mr. Rollins, her campaign aide, said that the Whitman campaign had paid groups to suppress black votes.
"And I know he was really only doing it for my best interests and distracting the press, but I could have thought of better ways," the Governor said.
Asked later if the eyes of Republicans around the country would be judging her success or failure in carrying out the cut, she flashed a smile and quickly replied: "New Jersey is all I care about, and it's going to make a real difference to New Jersey, so that's what I'm focusing on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Republican National Committee's meeting in Washington yesterday, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman was greeted by Mary Daubman, a delegate from Colorado, as Haley Barbour, party chairman, looked on. Governor Whitman said her tax cuts would require discipline at all levels of government.(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; PROPERTY TAXES; LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); TAX LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INFLATION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PURDUM, TODD S HALEY BARBOUR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



567 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP

 BODY:
The Pacific Telesis Group said yesterday that it lost $391 million in the fourth quarter, mostly as a result of a reorganization, but its profits from operations were also below expectations.
The Baby Bell based in San Francisco said earnings were reduced by $670 million because of special charges for a revamping that is expected to eliminate 10,000 jobs by the end of 1997. Pacific Telesis reported a profit of $287 million for the quarter a year earlier. 
 Without the special charges, the company said its operating profits were $279 million, or 66 cents a share, down 3 percent from $287 million, or 71 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier.
William N. Deatherage, a telecommunications analyst for S. G. Warburg, said the poor California economy had served to depress earnings, noting that the company's Pacific Bell phone unit had just 3.6 percent growth in new business lines compared with a 6 percent increase for Ameritech, which serves markets in the Midwest. He predicted that Pacific Telesis, which is expected to complete the spinoff of its cellular and paging units by May, would have flat operating earnings of $2.60 a share in 1994.

GRAPHIC: Table: "PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP (N)"

Qtr. to Dec 31	1993	1992	%Ch	Rev.	2,297,000,000	2,271,000,000	+1.15	Net loss	b391,000,000	c287,000,000	+36.2	Sh. earn	(.92)	.71		Sh. out.	422,241,000	404,721,000		Yr rev.	9,244,000,000	9,108,000,000	+1.5	Net loss	b1,504,000,000	c1,142,000,000	+31.7	Sh. earn	(3.63)	2.83		Sh. out.	414,171,000	402,977,000	 	
 
b-Included $14 million, or 4 cents a share, in income for the quarter and $29 million, or 7 cents a share, in income for the year, from spinoff operations. The quarter also included pretax restructuring charges of $1,018,000,000. The charges reduced the fourth quarter's net income by $670 million, or $1.58 a share. Excluding the charges, fourth-quarter earnings would have been $279 million, or 66 cents a share.
The latest year also included $2.66 billion in restructuring and other charges. Excluding the charges, net income for 1993 would have been $1.16 billion, or $2.80 a share.
The year was also after a charge of $1,724,000,000, or $4.16 a share, from changes in accounting.
c-Net income, which included $1 million in income for the quarter and a charge of $31 million, or 8 cents a share, for the year, were from spinoff operations.
Revenue represented total operating revenues.
(Loss)
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$57
Unchanged

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (51%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP AT&T INC (92%); PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



568 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Layoff Plan Scaled Back 14% at Boeing

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Seeing a glimmer of hope on the economic horizon, the Boeing Company today scaled back the work force reduction it had planned for 1994. With a go-ahead from the airlines for its new 737-700 aircraft, Boeing said it would begin adding employees at its plant in Wichita, Kan.
Nearly a year ago, facing canceled orders and an airline industry in worldwide recession, Boeing cut production and said it would have to trim its work force by 28,000. Today's projected reduction, coupled with the 17,000 jobs eliminated last year, would result in a total cut of 24,000 jobs, or about 14 percent fewer. Analysts said a modest recovery in the airline industry, together with the successful introduction of its new plane, had made Boeing management more optimistic.
 
Adding 1,000 Jobs in Wichita
 Boeing, the largest producer of commercial aircraft, said it would cut 7,000 jobs this year in Washington State and 1,000 more at other locations; this reduction includes 1,451 jobs eliminated this month. The Seattle company plans to add 1,000 jobs to its work force in Wichita, for a net job loss of 7,000. As of Jan. 1, Boeing employed about 116,155. 
 "The 7,000 layoffs they are projecting now is better than I thought," said William B. Whitlow, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities in Seattle, who added that he had been anticipating 10,000 jobs would be cut in the Puget Sound area alone. "This is an indication the company is feeling a little bit better about the outlook," he said.
Shares of Boeing rose 62.5 cents today, to $45.125, on the New York Stock Exchange. Analysts were cautiously optimistic about the company's outlook for 1994.
"The encouraging aspect is the aggregate loss is smaller than previously expected," said Wolfgang Demisch, an analyst with BT Securities. "That's partially because of a little bit of incremental business they didn't bargain for at this time last year. But there are also some signs of improvement in the airline picture."
 
New Noise Rules Help
 The outlook at Boeing has been brightened by new noise rules that go into effect this year, mandating that airlines either retire 25 percent of their older, noisier aircraft, or have a fleet made up 55 percent of craft that meet the so-called stage 3 requirement for the quietest planes. While larger carriers like American and Delta are already in compliance, many smaller operators will have to accelerate purchase of new planes.
And while domestic air travel was down last year, global air travel increased by 7 percent. Airlines are also benefiting from lower fuel costs, and expect more business if the economy continues to improve.
Frank Shrontz, Boeing's chairman and chief executive, said the company's business plans would require some hiring to obtain necessary skills. "We will hire only if we cannot fill jobs from inside the company, recall laid-off employees or retrain existing employees to meet our needs," he said.
Boeing has in the last few years put into effect new manufacturing processes based on shorter cycle times and continuous work flow rather than the completion of jobs in batches. While these are considered more efficient, any production error can have more serious and costly ramifications than in the old method, Mr. Demisch said. This makes the company more reluctant to lay off experienced workers, he said.
"For Boeing, there has to be some real incentive to start thinking about what do we do if business improves," Mr. Demisch said. "You don't want to pay to lay people off, only to have to pay to put them back on the work force. The cost of laying people off has risen."
Boeing said its job reduction would be accomplished through a combination of attrition and layoffs. Mr. Shrontz said he expected the majority of the reduction would occur during the first half of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (94%); WICHITA, KS, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOEING 737-700 AIRPLANE; HIRING AND PROMOTION LAYOFFS (95%); AIRLINES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



569 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Skids $6.10 as Assault On $400 Mark Fails Again

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Gold prices skidded to a six-and-a-half-week low yesterday as investment funds bailed out after the market's repeated failure to reach $400 an ounce.
Gold for February delivery dropped $6.10 on the Commodity Exchange in New York to $381.40 an ounce, the futures contract's lowest daily settlement since Dec. 7. 
 Other precious metal prices also fell sharply. March silver plunged 15.3 cents, to $5.122 an ounce on the Comex. April platinum deliveries sank $8.60 on the New York Mercantile Exchange to $380.90 an ounce.
The selloff followed a $4.80 drop in the gold market Thursday after its latest failure to reach $400 became the last straw for investment funds and other speculators. Gold last traded above $400 in early August. It peaked on Thursday at $394.20.
 
Reminiscent of August
 The funds "do battle as they approach $400," said a metals analyst, Bette Raptopoulos of Prudential Securities Inc. "When the market can't break above that, it sells off."
She said the action was reminiscent of August, when repeated failures to push the market to $410 set off a plunge to less than $350 by mid-September. But a similar crash does not seem likely this time unless the February contract drops below $380, she said.
George Milling-Stanley, precious metals analyst with Lehman Brothers Inc., said he had not expected gold to reach $400 because fundamental supply-and-demand factors did not justify such a price. If it does not find support at $380, the market could fall to $375 or lower before demand picks up in the spring, he said.
He noted that Chinese demand had been weaker this year than last, and Japan, mired in recession, had reduced its consumption of gold, silver and platinum.
On other commodity markets, oil prices finished little changed after a week of ups and downs in reaction to bitter cold in parts of the country, followed by forecasts for higher-than-normal temperatures. Light sweet crude oil for March delivery fell 2 cents, to $14.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
February heating oil rose 0.07 cent, to 48.03 cents a gallon, and February unleaded gasoline rose 0.10 cent, to 42.04 cents a gallon. February natural gas climbed 5.5 cents, to $2.305 for 1,000 cubic feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (69%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES GOLD MARKETS (93%); METALS MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



570 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: LAW;
Dividing Pension Funds In Divorce Settlements

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen 

 BODY:
WHEN couples in their 50's and 60's divorce, retirement benefits can be an important part of the financial arrangement.
Although money in tax-favored retirement plans generally cannot be assigned to another person, the Internal Revenue Code provides for an exception, a qualified domestic relations order, known by the initials Q.D.R.O. and pronounced quadro. 
 This type of court order allows a specified amount to be paid to a spouse or former spouse from a pension or profit-sharing plan or any other tax-favored retirement plan.
"It's a vehicle that can satisfy both parties," said Milt Pickman, senior tax partner in Anchin Block & Anchin, a New York firm of certified public accountants.
In a recent case described by Mr. Pickman, a company president who divorced his wife to remarry had $1 million in a profit-sharing plan. Under a Q.D.R.O., the plan's administrator paid $500,000 into an individual retirement account set up for the ex-wife. She was 56, so the financial settlement was structured for her to receive alimony until she was 59 1/2, when she could begin withdrawals from the I.R.A. without penalty.
"The basic advantage for the wife is that she got control of the money," Mr. Pickman said. "She can withdraw it as she needs without worrying about whether he'll send a check every month, and she can leave money in the account to her children. For the husband, the advantage is that it is pretax money, like alimony."
In this case, there is another advantage for the husband. Under the 1986 tax law, people may generally set aside up to $750,000 in tax-favored retirement plans, but people whose accrued benefits exceeded $562,500 on Aug. 1, 1986, were allowed to make "a grandfather election."
Now, because of strong market performance in recent years, many who made that election may find they have what the I.R.S. considers to be excess accumulations and eventually will face excess distribution penalties. The Q.D.R.O. reduces the accumulation without affecting the amount protected by the grandfather election.
Samuel J. Friedman, senior tax partner in the New York law firm of Hall, Dickler, Kent & Friedman, which has a large matrimonial practice, said middle-aged divorces were increasing. Some people wait until their children are grown to separate, and "economic stress is leading to marital stress," he said. People who are laid off or forced into early retirement sit about the house depressed, he explained, and then their marriages fall apart.
Frequently, money in pension funds "is the dominant asset" for such couples, he said. Many executives aged 50 to 55 have accumulated substantial pensions, but have squandered everything else, he said.
How pension money is divided may depend in part on the type of plan. The administrator of a defined-benefit plan, which pays a set amount each month to retirees, may pay a specified portion of those regular benefits to the former spouse. In the case of defined-contribution plans, including I.R.A., Keogh and 401(k) plans, a lump sum can go to the former spouse. If the payment is paid directly into an I.R.A., taxes are deferred.
Seldom is a Q.D.R.O. the entire financial settlement in divorce, Mr. Friedman said. Usually the order is combined with a division of property -- in accordance with state law and the couple's agreement or the court's dictate -- and sometimes with alimony or child support.
"It is a cash asset and readily predictable," Mr. Friedman said. People find paying alimony so distasteful that they often stop after a short time, and collection for the former spouse becomes difficult. Pension plan administrators are far more reliable.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: REED SMITH LLP (84%); ANCHIN BLOCK & ANCHIN LLP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MARITAL PROPERTY (90%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); ACCOUNTING (54%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



571 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
Of Course Crime Pays

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER

 BODY:
Every politician in the United States obviously intends to run against crime as soon as possible. It is a noble strategy with a fatal flaw; to wit, it leaves a dearth of pro-crime candidates for crime-hating statesmen to run against.
Many politicians, saying they fear that a complete absence of crime-loving candidates will end their dreams of serving the public, have asked my help. And so, seizing the chance to mix business and patriotism, I announce formation of a company called the Pro-Crime Party Inc. 
 For crime-hating politicians the Pro-Crime Party Inc. will provide candidates ready to stump in favor of such acts as armed robbery, auto theft, burglary, running a disorderly house and swindling the greedy with the old dropped-pocketbook scam.
Every one of our pro-crime candidates comes equipped with a standard speech for delivery at a public rally. If television news shows fail to use sound bites from the speech, our pro-crime candidate will deliver it in a paid political telecast, or in 10-, 20- or 30-second commercials, provided his opponent will pay for the television time.
Sample line from speech: "God forbid that this great country ever see the day when the voters choose to be governed by a man who would imprison his fellow citizens for committing those historic American felonies known to our forefathers as . . ."
Here the anti-crime politician using our services can insert in our pro-crime speech two crimes of his own choosing. There may be an additional charge for the basic speech if customers want our candidates to endorse the more distasteful crimes.
For instance, customers who want our pro-crime candidate to wage a gloves-off, no-holds-barred campaign in favor of murder and arson will naturally be charged considerably more than those who are content with a campaign on behalf of more driving with suspended licenses and decriminalizing the act of impersonating a policeman.
The basic fee entitles anti-crime politicians to choose one of the following three bumper stickers for our pro-crime candidates' cars: (1) "Criminals Don't Bother People, People Do"; (2) "Support Your Local Drug Pusher"; (3) "John Gotti Said It, I Believe It, And That Settles It."
Please note that our candidates are honest working people. They are not criminals, nor even politicians, and will not engage in criminal acts to assure victory for anti-crime politicians.
For a supplemental charge, however, they will participate in staged "Moments of Illegality," illustrating what they hope to accomplish for the advancement of crime if elected.
In a typical "Moment," our candidate, visiting Washington, is accosted on the Capitol steps by a lobbyist wearing tasseled loafers and offering an illegal campaign contribution. Turning to the camera, he says:
"Can you believe, my fellow Americans, that under our present criminal-hating law I am forbidden to let decent citizens like this lobbyist give me so much money that even after buying the election I'd have enough left over to buy a 30-room house plus a little island in the Aegean for a summer place?"
Production costs of these "Moments" must, of course, be borne by the customer. (These include the cost of supplying tasseled loafers.) We supply free of charge, however, two videotapes of the "Moment," suitable for showing at lodge luncheons and League of Women Voters meetings.
Now what about debating? What is a campaign without a debate these days? Since our pro-crime candidates are honest working people rather than politicians, most are neither capable of nor interested in political argument.
For this reason we train each one to memorize an argument in praise of criminal drug activity. Its burden: Drug crime provides a living income for many thousands of poor, uneducated and unemployable young men. Moreover, since it flourishes in poor neighborhoods, its victims are mostly the poor.
If the crime did not exist, all those unemployable young men desperate for money would inevitably be forced to turn to other crimes, which might bring them down on unpoor neighborhoods where the victims would be the unpoor. In short, the illegal drug business is a blessing to the unpoor, and we ought to leave it alone.
We have designed this argument to cue the authentic anti-crime candidate to his explanation why practically everybody should be in prison, in most cases, forever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLE FOR PEOPLE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FELONIES (78%); MURDER (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (78%); BURGLARY (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (74%); IMPERSONATION (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); ARSON (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); ROBBERY (69%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (67%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



572 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Slower, but Surer, Arms Curbs

 BODY:
The U.S. has traditionally tried to stop the spread of nuclear arms by talking nations out of wanting the weapons in the first place or by denying them the technology to make arms. But now that proliferation ranks high among the dangers to U.S. security, the Clinton Administration faces pressure to pursue a third course, military action.
Nonproliferation hawks, impatient with the traditional tactics of diplomacy and denial, cite the gulf war and the subsequent disarming of Iraq as proof that force works. President Clinton has wisely resisted. While keeping the military option in reserve, he has focused on diplomacy and on curbing trafficking in nuclear components to keep countries like North Korea and Iran from building bombs. 
 What currently has the hawks in full cry is North Korea's delay in resuming international inspections. At a minimum, they want to impose economic sanctions, backed by a naval blockade, but some also advocate air strikes.
The hawks routinely cite Iraq as evidence that air power yields results, But their argument is unconvincing. The 1981 Israeli attack on Iraq's Osirak reactor did not destroy Saddam Hussein's nuclear program but only drove it underground. Nor did allied bombing during the gulf war succeed. It took persistent international inspectors to root out Iraq's bomb-making infrastructure.
Economic sanctions are less risky than air strikes, which could provoke a violent reaction from a volatile country like North Korea. But there's no assurance that an economically strangled North Korea would welcome inspectors or shut down its nuclear program, and it might turn belligerent. The North's record of double-dealing makes Congress and the bureaucracy understandably skeptical about diplomacy. And South Korea is uneasy about having the U.S. deal directly with the North. That's why it takes courage for President Clinton to try diplomacy first.
The President is on equally sound footing in trying to make it harder for countries to ship arms-producing technology to nations that covet their own nuclear arsenal. He needs to persuade countries that possess such technology to impose tighter export controls on their manufacturers.
The U.S. has traditionally granted allies access to American dual-use technology that could be employed both for weapons and for peaceful purposes like nuclear power plants. But it has denied such technology to foes. Now it must deny dual-use technology to states that export it to renegades like Iran and persuade others to do likewise.
The Administration can also improve the climate for nonproliferation by accelerating negotiations to ban all nuclear testing by 1995.
Mr. Clinton's approach has had some success in South Africa, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. Yet the Pentagon is prudent to hedge against failure by preparing now for a war against a nuclear-armed foe. Developing smart bombs to penetrate underground weapons factories and improving intelligence make sense so long as military countermeasures do not shift the focus from the first line of defense -- the strategy of diplomacy and denial.
That strategy may not be as sensational as air strikes. But it runs less of a risk, and slowly but surely, it is showing results.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UKRAINE (77%); BELARUS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UKRAINE (77%); BELARUS (72%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD; NUCLEAR TESTS; EDITORIALS MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); DISARMAMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



573 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: When Does Reform Toward Indian Peoples of the U.S. Begin?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Other Mexico" (editorial, Jan. 4) contrasts the "free market" of northern Mexico with the subsistence agriculture and native peoples OF Chiapas in southern Mexico, and calls for land, economic and government reforms to respect the rights of Indians. Then, ignoring United States political and economic realities, you make a shockingly naive statement: "If Mexico is to take its place among the democracies of North America, the gap between economics and politics -- and between the two Mexicos -- urgently needs to be bridged." 
 Do you not know there is another United States, of land theft, poverty and Government repression, the United States of native Americans?
For example, consider the great Sioux nation. In the treaty of 1868, the United States pledged to preserve western South Dakota as our permanent home, yet when gold was discovered in 1876, the United States made war on us and stole the Black Hills -- our sacred lands. Today, 1.5 million acres (of 7 million taken) are "Black Hills National Forest." When we petition for their return and are put off, it is clear that the national forest is a higher priority than national honor.
The theft of our most valuable resources has left the Sioux nation poor, the poorest of the poor. For example, Shannon County on the Oglala Sioux reservation is, according to the 1990 census, the poorest county in America. Ziebach County on our Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation, is the seventh poorest county in America. With this terrible poverty comes disease and early death for our people. Infant mortality, diabetes, heart disease and alcoholism are at third world levels.
At the same time, our inherent right to self-government has been shackled by the heavy hand of state and Federal governments. Most recently, the Supreme Court undermined the Constitution's principle of freedom of religion in its refusal to protect peyote as the sacrament of the Native American Church. Americans have a tendency to disregard all this, while pointing self-righteous fingers at other nations.
So, if Mexico must undertake land, economic and government reform toward Indian people "to take its place among the democracies of North America," then the United States must undertake land, economic and government reform to heal lingering wounds and finally fulfill the wonderful aspirations set forth in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution.
 
MARK C. VAN NORMAN
Tribal Attorney
Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe
Eagle Butte, S.D., Jan. 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: VAN NORMAN EQUIPMENT (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEX); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); RELIGION (67%); PETITIONS (66%); HEART DISEASE (64%); INFANT MORTALITY (64%); DIABETES (64%); CENSUS (52%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: VAN NORMAN, MARK C

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994



574 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Florida Hopes Fears Will Fade From Memory

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
FLORIDA'S $31 billion a year tourist industry began 1994 hoping that the memory of violent attacks on visitors to the state, including the murders of 10 foreigners, might finally be receding. The results for 1993 were "clearly mixed," said Mayco Villafana of the Greater Miami Convention and Visitor's Bureau. The state estimates that the number of visitors to Florida increased by 1.9 percent, to about 41.3 million, but acknowledges that the bulk of that growth came before September, when the killing of first a German and then a British tourist produced a wave of canceled trips in markets around the world.
Europeans in particular still appear to be nervous about vacationing in Florida, especially Miami. Robert Todak, general manager of Art Deco Hotels, a group of four hotels in the chic South Beach area of Miami Beach, said there "has been a definite decrease in European travel into South Beach" in the last quarter of 1993. "Primarily we deal with European tour operators, and they are down." Tourism officials suggest that not just violence, but unfavorable changes in exchange rates and an economic slowdown in Europe have also contributed to the drop. 
 That, of course, is bad news for the operators of restaurants and tourist attractions, as Arthur Hertz, owner of the Miami Seaquarium, discovered last month after Germany and Argentina played a soccer match in Miami considered a possible preview of the 1994 World Cup final. "There was a group of 350 Germans that was supposed to come, and over 100 canceled in Germany," Mr. Hertz recalled. "Of those who didn't cancel, only 78 came here to Seaquarium. The rest didn't want to leave the hotel."
Some American tourists have proven equally leery. When Florida State played Nebraska in the Miami's Orange Bowl for the national college football championship on Jan. 1, a few Cornhusker fans lodged themselves in hotels more than 100 miles away, rather than staying in Miami. But those who opted for more convenient quarters were quoted in local press accounts, which Miami officials distributed nationally, as saying that the dangers of the city had been overblown and that they never felt threatened.
The falloff would be even worse but for tourism from Latin America, where strong economic growth and a more fatalistic attitude about violence have contributed to a double-digit increase in visits to Florida. A long article in a recent issue of the Brazilian news magazine Veja, for instance, concluded that Miami is as safe as, if not safer than, Rio de Janeiro or Sao Paulo, which helps explain why Miami and Orlando are crowded this month with Argentines, Brazilians, Chileans and Peruvians on their summer vacations.
The real test, however, will come this spring and summer. "We're in the critical booking period right now for those seasons, and we don't know yet how it is going to turn out," said Gary Stogner, a spokesman for the state government's tourism bureau. But Mr. Villafana added: "You can't have the cumulative effect of the crime tragedies we've had in 1993 and not expect it to have an effect. I think crime is something we will have to be dealing with seriously for the entire year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (94%); GERMANY (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); EUROPE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (75%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (94%); GERMANY (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); EUROPE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (75%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS TOURISM (91%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (86%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); BEACHES (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HOTEL STAFF (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); SOCCER (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (52%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



575 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: UP AND COMING: Jeff Williams;
On TV, He's Brilliant On Stage, He's Twisted

BYLINE: By ANDY MEISLER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
IN "BIRDLAND," THE NEW ABC series set in a mental hospital, the actor Jeff Williams plays Dr. Lewis Niles, a very young, very nerdy, very physiology-oriented psychiatrist about whom everybody, including the audience, asks: "How can such a brilliant, caring clinician be so naive and out of touch with his feelings?"
In person, Mr. Williams, who has been an actor ever since he left college nine years ago, looks even younger than he does in a lab coat, and that inspires a different question: How can a person who's been working so hard for years be so calm in the face of what might become national recognition and financial stability? 
 "As far as I'm concerned, I'm unemployed," says Mr. Williams.
Filming of the last of six initial episodes of "Birdland" was completed in Vancouver several weeks ago. With positive reviews, the show premiered Jan. 5 and had the highest ratings in its Wednesday at 10 P.M. slot. The next week, it slipped to second behind "48 Hours" on CBS, but given the paucity of popular one-hour dramas, there is a good chance ABC will order more episodes.
"Birdland," a comedy about the problems of hospital staffers and patients, provides Mr. Williams with his first regular role in a TV series. The show stars Brian Dennehy as Dr. Niles's boss, a psychiatrist whose methods are as seat-of-the-pants as his colleague's are not.
Dr. Niles, says Mr. Williams, "has always focused only on academics. He hasn't taken a lot of time to develop the personal skills. Maybe some of it is fear of the world at large. And I think that's a part of his attraction to Brian's character. Brian takes risks and screws up a lot. Lewis kind of admires a bit of that courage."
Walter Parkes, the creator and executive producer of "Birdland," agrees with that analysis. "The Brian-Lewis relationship is the cornerstone of the show," he says, adding that Mr. Williams was the only actor he seriously considered for the Niles role. "He's very idiosyncratic. When you write a line of dialogue, you hear it in your head one way, but Jeff always manages to subvert or amplify that anticipation -- usually making the line better."
Mr. Williams says: "On television I usually play shy, brilliant good guys. On stage, I'm usually cast as a crazed, twisted killer. Those are more kind of fun parts, you know?"
Mr. Williams was born in Los Angeles, the son of teachers, and attended Sarah Lawrence College. His professional career has jumped from coast to coast. In Beverly Hills, he parked cars and had guest spots in shows like "Facts of Life," "The Cosby Show" and "Remington Steele."
Five years ago he moved back East, where he became a member of the acclaimed Naked Angels OffBroadway troupe and played a killer in the controversial play "Generations of the Dead in the Abyss of Coney Island Madness" at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven.
A few weeks ago he watched the premiere of "Birdland." Did he leap up and shout "I've made it!"?
"No," he says. "I jumped up and shouted, 'I'm comfortable!' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Williams, who plays a doctor on ABC's "Birdland"--Able to make lines better. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BIRDLAND (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (84%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (84%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (60%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (60%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (60%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (60%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (60%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (84%); CALIFORNIA, USA (84%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); 

PERSON: MEISLER, ANDY; WILLIAMS, JEFF BRIAN DENNEHY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



576 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 2; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1968 words

HEADLINE: DANCE;
A Plie Grows in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
Walk down scruffy Fourth Avenue in Brooklyn, past scattered neighborhood shops, the familiar Brooklyn Academy of Music receding in the distance. Turn right on Douglass Street, near the Gowanus Canal, and continue down the usually deserted block. Enter the door of a building as unremarkable as all the others on this industrial street. It is like tumbling down Alice's rabbit hole. A giddy, chipped mosaic-floored hallway leads to a stairway of wooden planks. Three flights up is the Gowanus Arts Exchange, an oasis, serene yet bustling.
The air is filled with an improbable mix of tapping feet, flamenco music and endlessly ringing telephones. During the day, the studios may be filled with performers rehearsing for a show or children learning how to dance. In the office, a space partitioned off the small lobby, a woman is likely to be working on a newsletter or meeting with dancers, musicians or producers. At night, the larger of the two studios becomes a little theater, simple but well equipped, for programs of dance, music and theater by artists from the neighborhood, the city and beyond. One night, a dancer and a violinist may be found winding around each other in a dreamlike collaborative duet; another night, a comedian may be found portraying a dithering fund-raiser gone amok. 
 Some of the productions are terrible. Many of them are vital and even refined -- and go on to higher-profile venues, such as Dance Theater Workshop in Manhattan. But underlying them all is the invigorating sense of a questing spirit at work -- in the classroom and rehearsal studio as well as on the stage.
The Gowanus Arts Exchange is one of the hundreds of small grass-roots cultural centers that are scattered throughout New York and give the city a large measure of its reputation for artistic vibrancy. That vibrancy seemed threatened earlier this month when John S. Dyson, Rudolph W. Giuliani's deputy mayor for economic development and finance, raised the possibility of shifting city arts financing to larger, better-known institutions that attract tourist dollars and offer significant numbers of jobs. The small institutions, some 400 of which receive city arts money, tend to be faceless, yet they represent the life of the imagination to many New Yorkers who might otherwise never be exposed to the arts. They are home to artists in need of room to experiment and even to honorably fail.
In terms of its size and mission, the nine-year-old Gowanus center is fairly typical. It receives scant attention from the Manhattan media for its performances, which occur over 30 weekends a year, and for its classes -- 22 a week during the current winter term. A little less typically, it has become known among performers and producers of experimentalist dance and theater as a place where art grows, due in large part to the sophistication and wide-ranging interests of its director, a former dancer and choreographer named Marya Warshaw-Chu.
The center's budget is small. Last year, its income was $127,100, with $10,800 of that coming from city and state sources. (Gowanus gets no money from the Federal Government.) Receipts from the box office were $17,900, from tuition, $66,500. The year was a difficult one, and the center just about broke even, but it expects to come out ahead by roughly $2,500 in 1994.
Gowanus probably wouldn't go under if it lost its annual grant -- $2,500 in 1993 -- from the Department of Cultural Affairs, the city's major source of money for the arts. But should more than one piece fall through in the intricate jigsaw of income sources that make up its budget, the center could easily fold. Last year, it nearly closed because of a combination of rising expenses, cuts in government financing and a drop in student enrollment in one semester. If that had happened, Brooklyn would have lost one of only two year-round performance spaces in the borough, the other being BAM.
The center will never generate the kind of money or jobs Mr. Dyson talked of. But like the city's larger cultural institutions, Gowanus has had to cut programs because of dwindling resources and it is unable to expand some of its most useful programs, such as the one that provides arts education to the borough's public school children. The center sends artists and performers trained to work with children into two of the Brooklyn public schools with no other arts programming.
STANDING AT THE CENTER OF this enterprise, and functioning as something of a pragmatic earth mother for it, is Ms. Warshaw-Chu, 43, who has worked at the Gowanus center since it was founded in 1985 as an outgrowth of Elise Long's Spoke the Hub Dancing company. When her nearby studio became unavailable, Ms. Long and four friends bought an abandoned soap factory on Douglass Street. Gowanus takes up most of the top floor, occupying a 5,500 square-foot space that was renovated with money from the city and other public and private sources. The windows of her office overlook a largely Hispanic working-class neighborhood, one within walking distance of the brownstone neighborhoods of Prospect Heights, Fort Greene, Carroll Gardens and Cobble Hill, and that is home to many creative artists.
A small, dark-haired woman with large sympathetic eyes, Ms. Warshaw-Chu is the only full-time employee on a three-person administrative staff. She lives in Park Slope with her husband, Ben Chu, a public health physician, and two sons. Trained at the Merce Cunningham Studio in Manhattan, she choreographed for a time but preferred the process to the product.
Ms. Warshaw-Chu clearly relishes the interaction among different groups of people that tends to occur at the center. She remembers a dressing-room conversation during which two teen-age girls began talking about menstrual cramps. "Suddenly there was common ground between two young women of as radically different economic and cultural backgrounds as you could find," Ms. Warshaw-Chu said. "In a workshop setting, things get broken down about prejudice and difference and fear."
The center offers instruction in modern, jazz, ballet and African dance, with some special classes for boys and toddlers; classes in painting and sculpture are also available. In a typical week this month there were about three rehearsals a day, seven days a week. Four performances were held at the center this month. By spring, performances jump to 15 a month.
The program for which the Gowanus is best known is its Outback series, a monthly showcase for dance, performance art and music by new and seasoned artists, all chosen by audition. "The name was coined in the 80's when it was still like, 'Oooh, if I get on the subway to Brooklyn, I mean, will I get back?' " Ms. Warshaw-Chu said wryly. "That remains a struggle for us, though once people get here they come back."
Children, too, perform at the Gowanus center in a variety of programs, including Kids Outback, in which young Brooklynites selected by audition present their own dance, music and theater. In addition, the center's Young People's Performing Workshop, a group of 14 children ranging in age from 11 to 15, appears at Gowanus and at nearby nursing homes, schools and festivals.
Martha Bowers, a choreographer, relishes her work with Gowanus's youngest performers. "I've done pieces for professional companies and university students," Ms. Bowers said, "but this is the most fun. The only thing is, they're so adept at providing their own ideas that sometimes it's hard to convince them that you're the choreographer."
Children make up much of the audience for the center's annual Groundhog series for families, but Outback draws the most varied crowds in terms of geography, race and ethnic background. A typical Outback audience member tends to be from 25 to 45 years old, from Brooklyn or downtown Manhattan and from a low- to middle-income family.
One regular audience member is Mark Winther of Prospect Heights, who with his wife, Jane, and their daughter, also visit the Brooklyn Museum and BAM. "We go to a fair amount of Broadway shows," said Mr. Winther, a telecommunications consultant who works in Manhattan. "But we're always looking for newer stuff that is innovative and a little risky. You lose so much if all you're left with is the Met and Carnegie Hall."
Most of the Gowanus's special programs have their own audiences, particularly those devoted to work by gay men and lesbians, blacks and Hispanics. In April, there will be a festival of women's music and performance art. "We did men before the Joyce," Ms. Warshaw-Chu said with a smile, referring to a series at the Joyce Theater in Manhattan devoted to choreography by men.
Artists, for their part, talk of the center's distinctive energy. "It's such a hub," said Ms. Bowers, who also rehearses, studies and performs at Gowanus. "There's a constant flow of people. When I dance there, I'm not isolated in a space that only serves downtown dancers. People don't just talk about the best massage."
The center offers grants of free rehearsal hours to professional artists living in Brooklyn. Free rehearsal time is also a feature of the Gowanus's residency program. George Emilio Sanchez, a performance artist, and Reggie Wilson, an up-and-coming young choreographer, are the current beneficiaries of the two-year residency programs.
Mr. Sanchez rented studio space to rehearse a new piece in 1991 at the center, which is near the home he shares with his 3-year-old daughter Amalia, now a dance student at the center. He ended up as co-curator of Gowanus's popular and innovative "Borderlands/La Frontera" festival last spring. That led to the residency, during which Mr. Sanchez developed "Latindio," a solo piece that will be performed next month at Dance Theater Workshop in Manhattan. Mr. Wilson's full-evening "holy" will also be performed next month at the workshop.
MANY ADULTS HAVE FOUND their way to the Gowanus center through their children. Charlotte Phillips, a Brooklyn Heights pediatrician, spends Friday nights at the theater, watching dance with her husband and daughter, a center student. Mr. Winther became a Gowanus regular after his daughter began to study there. And Shelley Weiss, a family therapist from Park Slope, learned about the performances when she signed up for classes for her son, who had been enthralled by the dancing of Michael Jackson.
Ms. Weiss, who also heads OUTmedia, which seeks media visibility for gays, soon found herself part of Ms. Warshaw-Chu's wide-ranging network of advisors as a consultant on the center's gay and lesbian programming. "Marya, as a straight woman, was so comfortable with the necessity of presenting this work," Ms. Weiss said. "I think it's breaking new ground." Much of this work is drawn from the performers' lives and experiences, which, Ms. Warshaw-Chu said, makes it "very accessible."
Ms. Warshaw-Chu sounds as if she would like to cast her net over Mayor Giuliani, too. "It's easier to decide what's good and what's not good about something that's been done since the beginning of the century or been done every year by a ballet company or an established artist that everyone knows we need to cherish. It's much harder to establish that among younger artists and new kinds of art forms.
"But because it's harder doesn't mean that it's less valuable. And not to value the people in funding organizations who recognize that is to lessen the ability of this administration to build consensus among New Yorkers."
The city needs to work with artists, she said, not against them. And it needs to understand that the transforming experience of art doesn't occur only in large, formal institutions. "I'm glad we've held on," she said. "I'm glad we're able to do the work we're doing. But there should be more of us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children in a dance class at the Gowanus center, one of hundreds of such grass-roots outposts in New York -- Room to experiment and even honorably fail. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Marya Warshaw-Chu, head of the Gowanus center -- Earth mother. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 26)
 
Graph: "A Little Arts Center Tiptoes Along" shows the 1993 budget for the Gowanus Arts Center. (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: GOWANUS ARTS EXCHANGE (NYC) DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (54%); DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOWANUS ARTS EXCHANGE (NYC) DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (54%); DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); DANCE COMPANIES (75%); CHILDREN (74%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); BUDGETS (66%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



577 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
St. Thomas

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB; JAMES G. COBB is an editor in the Business Day section of The Times.

 BODY:
Of the three main United States Virgin Islands, St. Thomas is the most cosmopolitan, bustling and unabashedly commercial. Many Caribbean islands have white sand, aquamarine seas and lush mountains, but few display luxury goods in such abundance. A commercial hub long before Blackbeard prowled its waters, St. Thomas is now a prime destination for cruise ships, whose passengers rush ashore -- quite in the spirit of 18th-century buccaneers -- in pursuit of duty-free booty.
Others still come to get away from it all, even if a wave of development that followed Hurricane Hugo in 1989 sometimes gives a jolt of urban American reality. Along with new resorts and fast-food restaurants, there is now a Kmart and a Hard Rock Cafe, and luxurious homes have blossomed like frangipani on the northern and eastern hills. The sidewalks and narrow alleys of downtown Charlotte Amalie (pronounced ah-MAHL-ya), the territorial capital and St. Thomas's only real town, prove that there can be gridlock in paradise.
 Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas's first permanent European settlement, dates from 1671. Set on a grand circular harbor, the town was laid out by planners in Denmark who had never seen the mountainous, 32-square-mile island, and it has kept much of its colonial charm. (Facing a plan mandating streets on near-vertical surfaces, local builders substituted long stairways; exploration by foot is thus strenuous but rewarding.) With a paucity of through streets and vertigo-inducing roads through the mountains, driving is an exercise in patience and caution, particularly because traffic moves on the left, in cars with left-hand drive. 
 Danish control of the Virgin Islands ended in 1917, when the United States, concerned about a potential German threat to the Panama Canal, bought St. Croix, St. John and St. Thomas for $25 million. The self-governing unincorporated territory has a nonvoting delegate to the House of Representattives.
 
Where to Shop
 Since Charlotte Amalie was declared a free port in 1755, opening it for trade with the European powers and the growing American colonies, the island has moved to a mercantile beat. Jewelry, liquor and electronics stores, interspersed with shops offering china, linens and perfume, crowd Main Street. Jitneys take cruise ship passengers downtown; most stores also have outlets at the Havensight Mall near the dock.
United States residents may bring home $1,200 in goods free of duty, with the next $1,000 each subject to 5 percent duty. Members of a household may make a joint declaration, entitling a family of four to a $4,800 duty-free allowance. There is no sales or luxury tax. Best buys include unmounted gems (duty-free for Americans, no matter the price), gold jewelry and watches. Knowing just what one is looking for, and its mainland price, helps to insure a good deal. A knack for bargaining can also help.
Reputable establishments offer dealer warranties and certificates of authenticity and generally avoid the sidewalk barker come-ons that grow more shrill as one moves west on Main Street. Sales tags at Little Switzerland, (809) 776-2010, which has four shops in St. Thomas, carry real prices, not a markup that leaves room for haggling. Swiss watches (among them Rolex, Omega, Baume & Mercier, Swiss Army) include styles not found in most department stores. Another high-line jeweler, H. Stern, has six locations on St. Thomas; (809) 776-1939 or (800) 524-2024.
At Royal Caribbean (809) 776-4110, 23 and 33 Main Street, a women's Movado Classic Museum watch, advertised in New York for $395, was recently bought for $235, or 40 percent less, after prolonged bargaining. A. H. Riise, 37 Main Street, (809) 776-2303, has a mind-numbing selection of liquors, plus jewelry, linens and tobacco. Cardow, with nine stores, says it has 20,000 rings on display at 1 Main Street; (809) 776-1140.
Most visitors leave with rum in hand. Local brands like Cruzan cost less than $3 a fifth, and if you buy any spirits produced in the territory you are allowed to take six bottles, rather than the normal five bottles, back to the States duty free.
 
What to Do
 The beach at heart-shaped Magens Bay, over the mountains north of town, has often been called one of the world's prettiest. It is the only beach with an admission charge (50 cents, 25 cents children 11 and under, $1 parking) and has changing rooms, food service and a gift shop. The calm waters are ideal for first-time sailors, and small craft can be rented on the beach (about $20 hourly). Snorkeling gear is also available.
Jet skis and wave runners, fast and maneuverable power skimmers for one or two seated riders, can be rented for $30 a half hour from Mad Max, (809) 775-5178, near the Emerald Beach resort on Lindbergh Bay or for $40 at Blue Dolphin Water Sports, (809) 777-7100, extension 2224, near the Sugar Bay Plantation hotel, where windsurfing equipment can also be rented for $25 an hour. Coconut Cruises, (809) 775-5959, makes half day ($45), daylong ($85), dinner ($60) and sunset cruises ($35) on trimarans that accommodate about three dozen passengers; trips include meals, snacks and an open bar.
Most tourists make at least one excursion to St. John, two-thirds of which is the Virgin Islands National Park and where each uncrowded beach seems to surpass the one before ($3 one way for a 20-minute ferry that leaves every hour from Red Hook on the East End, $7 for the 45-minute ride from Charlotte Amalie).
Chris Sawyer, who owns dive shops on St. Thomas, offers two- and four-hour scuba dives ($50 and $70) and night dives twice a week from $50. Allleave from the Stouffer Grand Beach Resort, (809) 775-7320.
The underwater observatory at Coral World, (809) 775-1555, provides a 360-degree look at coral life. At 2 P.M. divers hand-feed sharks in the Predator Tank. Admission $14, children 3 and over $9. Open daily from 9 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
Events
 Many cultural events take place at the Reichhold Center for the Arts at the University of the Virgin Islands on a hillside overlooking Brewers Bay, (809) 774-8475, including folk dances by the Caribbean Dance Company on Feb. 18 and 19 and Feb. 25 to 27. Classical concerts (tickets $20 in advance, $25 at door; schedules from [809] 775-1929) are often held in Tillett Gardens in the Tutu area, the site of arts and crafts studios. From March 19 to 21, local artists and artisans will sell original works at the Arts Alive festival.
Carnival follows Easter in the Virgin Islands, and it will take place this year from April 17 to 30. The Carnival Food Fair offers a chance to sample dishes like kallaloo (a stew of meat, seafood and greens) and drinks prepared with sea moss or soursop, a local fruit. A predawn dance through the streets on April 29, the J'Ouvert Morning Tramp, is followed by the Children's Parade that day. On April 30 the Adults' Parade is led by Mocko Jumbies, stilt dancers in extravagant, brightly covered costumes.
 
 
Where to Stay
 Many big resorts offer the use of tennis courts, fitness centers and nonmotorized water sports equipment at no charge to guests. Winter rates are given unless otherwise noted; a hotel tax of 7.5 percent is additional.
With striking views from the mouth of the harbor, Marriott's Frenchman's Reef is the sprawling giant of St. Thomas hotels, with 420 rooms starting at $275 for a double.
Budget: Although far from any beach, the Mafolie Hotel has a view of the harbor from 800 feet up a mountain. The 23 rooms are modest but serviceable. Doubles from $97; (800) 225-7035, fax (809) 774-4091.
 With a similar, although lower, vantage point from Government Hill in town, Hotel 1829 has 15 guest rooms in a house built by a French sea captain for his bride. The house has a grand porch that doubles as a pricey restaurant popular with tourists. Double-occupancy rooms start at $80, harbor-view doubles from $170; (800) 524-2002, fax (809) 776-4313.
 Luxury: The Grand Palazzo Hotel calls to mind a palace on the Riviera, with pale walls, classical columns, tile roofs and canyons of pink Italian marble in the public areas. The 152 suites include juniors for $450 and two-bedroom units at $1,125; (809) 775-3333, fax (809) 775-4444.
 Condos and villas: Ocean Property Management handles 50 furnished condos in resorts, chiefly on the East End. Studio to two-bedroom units rent for $135 to $355 a night, including maid service; (800) 874-7897, fax (809) 775-5901.
McLaughlin Anderson Vacations, (809) 777-4737, rents about 40 villas, nearly all with swimming pools, by the week. Winter rates range from $875 for a small cottage with an outdoor shower to $7,000 for mansions that include the onetime estate of the author Herman Wouk.
 
Where to Eat
 Restaurants are generally informal and open-air, but prices can rival those of Manhattan's most elegant dining rooms. Casual dress, even shorts, generally passes muster, but reservations are advisable. Except as noted, prices are for dinner for two with wine or one drink plus dessert.
 Each of the big hotels has several restaurants, and a few have gained renown. Agave Terrace, perched above Water Bay in the Point Pleasant resort, has a cozy bar, a steel band on Tuesday and Thursday nights, and local seafood prepared in myriad styles and sauces. Among desserts with a tropical lilt: Mango Creme Caramel and an ice-cream concoction called Coconut Snowball. About $75. (809) 775-4142.
 At Grand Palazzo, the elegant Palm Terrace serves afternoon tea ($8 each for nonguests) and Continental dinner (over $100 for two) amid towering palms and high-backed cane chairs with a view toward St. John. Reservations for both: (809) 775-3333, extension 511.
 Provence, a stylish year-old bistro in the Frenchtown district, looks over fishing boats bobbing in the harbor. An antipasto table includes dozens of dishes, and there is an extensive wine list. Specialties include bouillabaisse and pepper-encrusted sea bass. About $70 for two. (809) 777-5600.
 Victor's New Hideout, in an industrial area near the airport, serves local dishes like conch chowder, plantains and fungi (pronounced FOON-jee, it is a cornmeal-and-okra fritter). About $60. (809) 776-9379.
 Panchita's on the waterfront serves Mexican fare. The second-story dining room is an ideal place to watch the hillsides light up at sunset as cruise ships head to sea. About $40. (809) 776-8425.
For a picnic near Magens Bay, Udder Delite Dairy Bar has hot dogs and the like. But the real attractions are liqueur-flavored milkshakes like the Jamoco ($2.75), of chocolate ice cream, coconut ice cream and Kahlua. (809) 775-2501.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bustling crowds throng Main Street. Cruise ships are frequent island visitors. Tea at the Grand Palazzo Hotel. (Photographs by Carol Lee for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on St. Thomas. (Sources: United Ststes Virgin Island Division of Tourism, National Climatic Data Center, local businesses)
 
Map of St. Thomas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); PANAMA (79%); DENMARK (70%); GERMANY (55%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE AMALIE, VIRGIN ISLANDS (71%); 

COMPANY: ST CROIX VINEYARDS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST THOMAS (US VIRGIN ISLANDS); UNITED STATES (96%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); PANAMA (79%); DENMARK (70%); GERMANY (55%); CHARLOTTE AMALIE, VIRGIN ISLANDS (71%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS RESTAURANTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); EXCISE TAX (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); JEWELRY (77%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); RESORTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CLIMATOLOGY (70%); FAST FOOD (69%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: COBB, JAMES G

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



578 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2315 words

HEADLINE: Rewriting Rules for East Side Avenues

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
AFTER eight years of study and debate, a major rezoning of the Upper East Side -- intended to curb growth, change building forms and bring an end to plazas that often seem to benefit developers more than anyone else -- will be taken up tomorrow by the City Council.
One measure, a remapping, would limit development potential by reducing the size of sites along the avenues on which the largest buildings are permitted. 
 The other measure is meant to create a 30- to 35-story "tower on a base" building form. The lower floors of these structures would line up with neighboring buildings and the upper floors would be set back, in contrast to more monolithic 40- or 50-story skyscrapers, isolated on plazas, that current zoning allows.
The second measure would also eliminate the 20 percent development bonus generated by plazas for residential buildings.
The rezoning was approved unanimously by the City Planning Commission last month, while Mayor David N. Dinkins was still in office. It is supported by the two Republican Councilmen from the Upper East Side. It is also endorsed by the Manhattan Borough President and Community Board 8, which sponsored the remapping, as well as the Civitas civic group, which has been advocating many of these changes for eight years.
"The City Council should recognize the power of community-based planning," said the Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, "and should see the extent to which this proposal balances neighborhood preservation with good development options."
But the measures face opposition from the real estate industry, which has demonstrated considerable muscle at the Council recently. In December, for example, the Council extended Section 421a tax abatements for the developers of large apartment buildings in mid-Manhattan and lower Manhattan. Two months earlier, the industry obtained several 11th-hour concessions before the Council passed a waterfront zoning plan.
And unlike the waterfront plan, the Upper East Side measures come to the Council as political orphans, the products of a mayoral administration that is no longer in power. Nor do they have a prime spokesman, since Richard L. Schaffer stepped down as chairman of the Planning Commission on Dec. 31.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had not taken a position on the rezoning as of early last week, said a spokeswoman, Karen Crowe. But Fran Reiter, the Deputy Mayor for planning and community relations, was meeting with city planners and real estate executives in an effort to reach a decision.
The remapping would reduce to 100 feet, from 125 feet, the width of zones along Third, Second, First, York and East End Avenues, from 59th to 96th Street, where the largest buildings are permitted. This would mean that high-density development would not reach as far into low-rise mid-blocks.
It is estimated that future construction at 24 likely development sites in these avenue zones would yield about 1,700 new housing units under the remapping, as opposed to 2,500 units if the zones remain 125 feet wide.
The Real Estate Board of New York believes that remapping "would result in a significant decrease in privately financed affordable housing," said Warren Wechsler, its first senior vice president. He referred to "80-20" housing projects, in which developers can obtain financing through tax-exempt bonds by setting aside 20 percent of the units for lower-income tenants. If there is a decrease in market-rate units as a result of rezoning, Mr. Wechsler noted, there will be an accompanying decrease in new lower-income units. "From the standpoint of social and housing policy," he said, "that's a factor that the Council has to take into account."
THE Real Estate Board is also opposed to design controls that would pack a building's bulk -- from 55 to 60 percent of its floor area -- at or below a 150-foot level.
These controls would apply not only to the Upper East Side but also to parts of First Avenue, from 34th to 59th Street; Second Avenue, from 17th to 59th Street and Third Avenue, from 15th to 39th Street. A few blocks on Sutton Place and Lexington, Park, Madison, Fifth, Ninth and Tenth Avenues would also be affected.
"The apartment layouts in such a packed arrangement tend to be relatively deep, inefficient and less filled with light and air than apartments in a thinner, less dense structure," Mr. Wechsler said. "Because the apartments and the retail spaces are -- from the market point of view -- less alluring, it makes the project itself less promising economically."
Instead of eliminating the plaza bonus, the Real Estate Board has suggested a series of requirements: for example, that plazas be no smaller than 1,200 square feet overall and no narrower than 30 feet, uninterrupted by entrances to the building or garage.
"In parts of the city that are short on space, it would be a shame to lose an amenity that provides space," Mr. Wechsler said. "Maybe the key would be to look at successful examples and come up with regulations that encourage a more successful result."
City planners feel equally strongly that the time for plazas and extremely tall towers along the eastern avenues has passed.
"We believe this is a tower district -- but not 40 to 50 stories high," said Robert E. Flahive, director of the Manhattan office of the City Planning Department.
Existing zoning rules require that buildings cover no more than 40 to 50 percent of the site on which they stand, leaving the rest for plazas, side yards and rear yards.
The rules, geared to maximum coverage, did not anticipate that builders would seek minimal lot coverage in order to construct the tallest buildings possible. This came about because of advances in construction methods, Mr. Flahive said, and because a premium was placed on skyscraping apartments during the 1980's condominium boom.
"Higher floors had a cachet in the market," he said. "You were selling views. You were selling privacy. So developers quickly began moving to a building form that emphasized height. Towers of 40 or 50 stories began having a coverage of 20 to 22 percent."
The summit was quite literally reached at the 55-story Trump Palace, at Third Avenue and 69th Street, Mr. Flahive said.
"Zoning wasn't effectively controlling these buildings," he said. "In addition, we were concerned about plazas."
Plazas pose particular problems in co-op or condominium buildings where the developers who received the zoning bonus are no longer involved, Mr. Flahive said. "The person who benefited is long gone," he said. "The co-op or condo board has no ongoing benefit. Plus, it's a maintenance headache and a quality of life issue" -- if the space is used as a campground by homeless people or a ballcourt by school children.
"Plazas were very poor bargains for the city, as far as we were concerned," said Mr. Schaffer, the former planning chairman. "They were poorly designed, underutilized and became privatized outdoor vestibules."
An Upper East Side civic group called Civitas sounded many of these themes in 1986 in a planning study and a short film, both of which were titled "No More Tall Stories."
"The majority of the plazas which were built to get the bonus are currently unused and unusable as neighborhood amenities," the study declared. "The claim that greater openness is afforded by such plazas is compromised by the fact that larger buildings block out more of the sky and create uncomfortable winds."
While Fifth, Madison, Park and Lexington Avenues already had zoning to maintain their architectural character, the Civitas study said that on the five avenues east of Lexington, "current zoning encourages buildings that are strikingly out of scale with the existing neighborhood."
Among other things, Civitas urged that the avenue zoning districts be narrowed to 100 feet and that the plaza bonus be eliminated.
Three years later, the City Planning Department issued its own report, "Regulating Residential Towers and Plazas," which proposed the tower-on-a-base structure and recommended limiting the bonus for plazas.
In 1992, alternative building models were studied at the Environmental Simulation Center at the New School for Social Research. Joining in the exercise were the Real Estate Board, Civitas, the Planning Department and the Oculus committee, a group convened by the editor of Oculus, the newsletter of the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects.
"It brought all the parties together at a place that was neutral," said Genie Rice, the president of Civitas. No single proposal or overall agreement emerged from these sessions but Ms. Rice noted points of consensus like the need for street walls that line up with neighboring buildings.
At the same time, Community Board 8 decided to proceed with its own rezoning initiative, as permitted under Section 197c of the new City Charter.
"WE worked with the Department of City Planning on all of our concerns," recalled Warrie Price, who stepped down last month as chairwoman of the board. But on the matter of narrowing the 125-foot avenue zones, she said, "it became very evident that they just were not going to move."
What made it possible for the community board to undertake the rezoning proposal was the technical assistance provided by the Borough President's office, Ms. Price said.
Otherwise, it would be "very difficult for local groups to do this because of the money, time and effort involved," said Craig Whitaker, an architect who worked with Civitas and on the rezoning application.
Ms. Messinger offered political support as well as technical assistance.
"We, in fact, endorsed the change," she said. "This major initiative of cutting back the depth of avenue buildings has the specific benefit of protecting the existing side-street affordable housing stock."
(The Real Estate Board, for its part, has said that the affordability of the existing housing stock within the 25-foot strips that are to be rezoned "has neither been established nor is it ensured.")
The staff of the City Planning Department did not embrace the community-sponsored proposal at first, maintaining that its own "tower on a base" proposal would suffice and that changing the depth of avenue zoning would not itself have a significant effect.
BUT members of the City Planning Commission, who were reviewing both measures, came to believe that the community-sponsored rezoning "did a couple of important things that were not done by the department's proposal," Mr. Schaffer said.
"It had the effect of very modestly cutting down the density on the Upper East Side," he said, "and it reduced the incursion of new buildings into the midblock."
"As everything went through the review process, the package became extremely attractive to everyone," Mr. Schaffer said. "It certainly seemed like an efficient and intelligent approach to have them both go through the process together."
Ms. Rice, of Civitas, said "the combination of the two are an excellent package."
The goal, Mr. Flahive said, is to outline a building form that would have a "meaningful base, integration between the tower and base and an interesting penthouse."
A base at least 60 feet high -- the height of a typical five-story tenement -- would be required, and the base would have to be either at the sidewalk line or recessed no more than eight feet.
The tower rising from this base would have to cover at least 30 percent of the lot. This rule, Mr. Flahive said, "would stop towers with 20 percent coverage, which adds 50 percent to the height."
Exceptions would be granted for features that added architectural interest to the building. For example, if the base of the building contained recesses and dormers, the tower coverage could be reduced to 28 percent, adding two additional floors. Also, the top four floors could have less than the minimum coverage if each were 20 percent smaller than the floor below, resulting in a stepped series of penthouses.
In buildings with only 30 percent coverage, at least 60 percent of the floor area would have be placed at or below the level of 150 feet. If the coverage rose to 40 percent of the lot, 55 percent of the floor area would have to be placed at or below 150 feet.
"These regulations will give us buildings between 30 and 35 stories," Mr. Flahive said.
And that has the neighborhood cheering.
"There is almost unanimous community support for the proposal," said Councilman Charles Millard, who represents part of the Upper East Side. "The reason is that Community Board 8 is the most densely populated community board in New York and people feel the need for relief."
"I HOPE that developers will recognize that with the waterfront plan and the recent expansion of 421a, they have been well treated by the Council in recent months," Mr. Millard said, "and that they would therefore not stand in the way of such an important community initiative."
Councilman Andrew S. Eristoff, who also represents part of the Upper East Side, said, "I think there will be some grumbling but, in the end, I feel the Council will take note of the broad coalition that is working for this change and will approve it."
From the sidelines, Mr. Schaffer said it would be "hard to judge" how the Council will vote on the measures. But he noted that they were approved by all 13 of the planning commission members.
"You've got 13 people appointed by seven officials coming together," Mr. Schaffer said, "so it was very clear that a very diverse commission felt strongly that these changes were important. That's a major plus. That makes a very strong statement."
Tomorrow's public hearing is at the Council's zoning and franchises subcommittee, headed by Walter L. McCaffrey, Democrat of Queens, who said he expects the panel to vote in the first or second week of February. It would go next to the Land Use Committee and then to the full Council.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Proposed zoning would rule out buildings like 55-story Trump Palace. (The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Diagram: "Less Density, Shorter Towers, No Plazas"
Planners have remapped the Upper East Side to reduce the size of zones along avenues where the largest buildings are permitted. Also, they have created design controls that encourage a "tower on a base" building form and have eliminated the plaza bonus for residential development. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER EAST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ZONING; LAW AND LEGISLATION CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); ZONING (92%); CITIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); APPROVALS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (64%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



579 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
A Housing Market Recovery, Step by S- l - o -w Step

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
SHAKING out Connecticut's housing market as the recession fades reveals a virtually unscathed southern Fairfield County and the rest of the state in various stages of a mostly sluggish recovery.
The 25 to 30 percent decline in housing prices since 1989 appears to have bottomed out and houses in all eight counties are selling in an uneven pattern. As old houses sell, new ones are being built. But Connecticut Department of Housing data show that the numbers are not overwhelming. For the year that ended on Nov. 30, 1993, 7,191 one-family housing starts were recorded, compared with 6,742 the previous year. 
 The loss statewide of 100,000 residents since 1989, due largely to corporate and military-industry shrinkage, did not, according to many real estate dealers, appreciably affect home sales as much as did an unemployment rate that rose from a low of 3 percent in 1988 to 7 percent in 1992. It has now backed off to 5.8 percent, helped by 9,000 new jobs at the Foxwoods Casino in Ledyard.
"Prices of existing homes," said Peter Helie, president of William Pitt Realty in Stamford, "can be expected to rise 4 to 5 percent annually through the end of the decade."
At the close of 1993 one-family houses in Greenwich sold for an average of about $850,000, up $20,000 from 1992, according to William Pitt statistics, which also showed Stamford dipping by almost $10,000, to $339,700, and Westport rising from $491,200 to $517,000.
"The trend now is toward home purchases as opposed to refinancing," said Leah Colihan, spokeswoman for Union Trust-First Fidelity in Stamford. The 30-year fixed rate for a loan up to $203,150 is 7 percent, with 2 points. On a "jumbo" mortgage of $600,000 or more the rate is 7.25 percent, with 2 points.
Citibank, based in Stamford, charges 7.375 percent, with no points, on the lower amount, and 7.875 percent, with no points, on jumbo mortgages.
"As rates rise the adjustable mortages become more attractive," said Mary Stachura, director of marketing for the bank. Current adjustable-rate mortgages are 5 1/4 percent, with a 2-point annual cap and a 6-point cap over the life of the mortgage.
In the Hartford region, sales are up 14 percent, according to Christopher Boynton, spokesman for the Greater Hartford Association of Realtors, covering 16 towns.
"Hartford proper increased by 32 percent," he said, noting that half the sales were below $220,000 and that the homes were predominantly pre-World War II vintage.
"A lot of fix-up is required," he said.
Robert De Angelo, president of the New Haven Board of Realtors, said that "housing values that have been declining are starting to stabilize, and sales for the past year were up 2 percent, to about 3,500 units, but there is enough inventory to last another couple of years."
The focus of new-home construction is on the one-family house built under contract for an individual buyer, but some developers are working on new subdivisions or taking over old ones from builders who were unable to complete them.
General Builders Supply of Brooklyn, a major provider of building materials for New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Connecticut, is experiencing "an improved climate in new-home construction," said David Poliscook, its financial officer, "but less so in Connecticut than in the other states."
In Milford, Baker Firestone of Pleasantville, N.Y., is building Lexington Green. Plans for the 162-unit development were approved for a former developer. Thirty one-family homes have been sold and a dozen are under construction, priced from $149,900 to $179,900 on varying lot sizes. They have three or four bedrooms and one and a half or two and a half baths.
Because of the moribund commercial real estate market, Robert Scinto, who owns 2 million square feet of commercial space he has built since 1982 in six Fairfield County towns, has switched to home development.
"We own a lot of land bought in the 80's for commercial development," he said, "but with no demand for the next three or four years we are building a subdivision called Rosebud in Trumbull and we will start on another project in Fairfield this spring."
Ten of Rosebud's total of 16 homes have been sold, five are occupied and five are under construction. Prices of $235,500 and $239,900 include 2-car garages, three bedrooms, two and a half baths, carpeting, air-conditioning and all appliances. "Basically, empty nesters are buying," said Mr. Scinto.
Crystal Homes, a company in Milford, has put together two of what eventually will be four modular homes off Imperial Avenue in Westport, presold at around $600,000 each. Built by Haven Homes in Pennsylania, they are designed with the buyer's specifications on computer.
"We erect modulars from $160,000 to $800,000," said Robert Small, president of Crystal Homes, "completing the foundation, site work and house in 60 to 90 days."
With higher lumber costs adding $10,000 to the price of a 4,000-square-foot house, builders are seeking alternatives.
"WE will use more steel," said Burton Rubin, of Burton Garret Associates of Mount Kisco, N.Y., "and sto -- a new word for synthetic stucco, being used in many high-end homes. It cuts heating and cooling costs by 40 percent, comes in many colors, doesn't crack and has a nice flat finish."
Some of his company's custom homes in Fairfield County are built on a trade-in, trade-up basis: The company buys the owner's old house and builds the new one, eliminating the risk of the owner's having to carry two homes.
"If the old house sells for more than the price fixed by an independent appraisal the client keeps the difference," said Mr. Rubin. "If it sells for less, we still pay him the appraised amount." The new house is priced higher than the old one, of course.
Burton Garret homes cost from $300,000 to over $1 million and range in size from 2,800 to 11,000 square feet. "Construction costs are the same anywhere in the state," Mr. Rubin said, "but a house in Litchfield County will cost five times less than one in Greenwich because of the availability and lower cost of land."
Indeed, the runup in Greenwich home prices since 1980 has resulted in the town's rejecting four revaluations done since 1990, and some large property owners are selling off acreage to reduce their taxes and acquire some ready cash.
"Fourteen years ago a house that cost $500,000 has a market value today of $5.2 million," said Mark Branchesi, the town assessor.
And James Sandy, the town planner, said: "People with 10 acres in a four-acre zone are spinning off the extra acreage. The lots can sell for $700,000 to $1 million or more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Housing starts have inched up in the state. These new residences are at Crystal Homes, Westport. (David Labianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (53%); C (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; FAIRFIELD COUNTY (CONN); UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES HOUSING MARKET (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



580 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Residential Resales

 BODY:
In the following reports, the "listed at" price is the asking price when negotiations began that ended in the sale. Time on market is from most recent listing to contract.
 
 MANHATTAN
 
 EAST MIDTOWN $970,000
 870 United Nations Plaza
 2-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 3,000-sq.-ft. co-op; 24-hr. doorman, concierge, manned elevator, dining room, eat-in kitchen, sauna; maintenance $3,018, 38% tax-deductible, listed at $995,000, 3 years on market (Broker: Ambrose-Mar Elia) 

GREENWICH VILLAGE $890,000
 231 West 11th Street
 2-family, 4-story Greek Revival town house in need of rehabilitation; 3 bedrooms, 2 baths in primary duplex unit; 2 bedrooms, 1 1/2 baths in other; dining room in each; taxes $8,600, listed at $890,000, 1 week on market (Brokers: Phillips Realtors; Ambrose Mar-Elia)
 
 TRIBECA $328,000
 295 Greenwich Street
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,100-sq.-ft. postwar condo and 400-sq.-ft. studio to be converted into one unit; 24-hr. doorman, concierge, dining area, 2 exposures; common charge $965, taxes $4,608, listed at $420,000, 13 months on market (Brokers; Douglas Elliman; Tabak Real Estate)
 
 WEST VILLAGE $292,000
 299 West 12th Street
 1-bedroom, 1-bath, 850-sq.-ft. prewar condo; 24-hr. doorman, concierge, raised dining area; common charge $510; taxes $3,300, listed at $320,000, 23 weeks on market (Broker: Patton-Young Properties)
 
 BRONX
 
 RIVERDALE $215,000
 3646 Corlear Avenue
 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 64-year-old detached brick colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, fireplace, parquet floors, patio, 1-car garage; taxes $1,976, listed at $225,000, 1 year on market (Broker: Trebach Real Estate)
 
 WOODLAWN $150,000
 4223 Herkimer Place
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 55-year-old detached brick Tudor; eat-in kitchen, finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $1,890, listed at $189,000, 20 weeks on market (Broker: Charles G. Brophy & Associates)
 
 BROOKLYN
 
 BROOKLYN HEIGHTS $750,000
 270 Hicks Street
 2-family, 4-story brick Queen Anne house built in 1887; 5 bedrooms, 2 baths, dining room, rear deck in owner's triplex; 1 bedroom, 1 bath in simplex; taxes $4,400, listed at $780,000, 4 weeks on market (Broker: Brooklyn Landmark Realty)
 
 MIDWOOD $210,000
 1914 Avenue J.
 6-bedroom, 2-bath, 85-year-old detached frame house; eat-in kitchen, 2 fireplaces, stained-glass windows, 2-car garage; taxes $2,016, listed at $249,00, 11 weeks on market (Broker: Jacob Gold Realty)
 
 PARK SLOPE $190,000
 330 10th Street
 2-family, 3-story brick house; 3 bedrooms, 1 1/2-baths in primary duplex; 1 bedroom, 1 bath in simplex; eat-in kitchen in each; taxes $1,100, listed at $205,000, 26 weeks on market (Broker: Park West Realty)
 
 QUEENS
 
 BAYSIDE $160,000
 1 Bay Club Drive
 (Bay Club)
 1-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 950-sq.-ft. condo in a 12-year-old building; 24-hr. doorman, dining room, eat-in kitchen, terrace, indoor pool and health club; common charge $310, taxes $2,600, listed at $175,000, 3 weeks on market (Broker: Agranoff Real Estate)
 
 FOREST HILLS GARDENS $369,000
 154 Slocum Crescent
 4-bedroom, 3-bath, 70-year-old center-hall colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, solarium, sun deck; taxes $2,500, $429,000, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Terrace Realty)
 
 STATEN ISLAND
 
 ANNADALE $285,000
 32 Pearle Place
 2-family, 4-year-old detached aluminum and brick house; 3 bedrooms, dining room in primary unit; 1 bedroom in other; 1 bath, eat-in kitchen in each; 1 car garage; taxes $1,000, listed at $280,500, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Kingsley Real Estate)
 
 ST. GEORGE $39,900
 350 Richmond Terrace
 (Skyline Terrace)
 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 860-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; dining el, 9 closets, harbor view; maintenance $483, includes gas and electricity, 33% tax deductible, listed at $39,900, 19 weeks on market (Broker: Gateway Arms Realty Corp.)
 
 NEW JERSEY
 
 EWING TOWNSHIP $170,000
 18 Farm Road
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 36-year-old colonial; eat-in-kitchen, 2-car garage, full basement; taxes $4,256, listed at $178,500, 2 weeks on market (Broker: Richard A. Weidel Corp., Realtors)
 
 MIDDLE TOWNSHIP $103,000
 303 South Main Street
 2-bedroom, 1-bath, over-100-year-old colonial; 1-car garage, finished attic, workshop on property; taxes $1,600, listed at $110,000, 23 weeks on market (Broker: DeMusz Real Estate)
 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIP $365,000
 6 Bell Drive
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 8-year-old contemporary; deck, family room, c/a; taxes $4,695, listed at $399,900, 19 weeks on market (Broker: The Prudential New Jersey Realty)
 
 OAKLAND $165,000
 4 Bailey Avenue
 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 34-year-old ranch; stone fireplace, 1-car garage, fenced yard, country kitchen; taxes $3,284, listed at $169,500, 4 weeks on market (Broker: Weichert Realtors)
 
 LONG ISLAND
 
 CENTEREACH $109,000
 15 Tucker Lane
 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 31-year-old Cape Cod; eat-in kitchen, finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $3,300, listed at $113,000, 6 weeks on market (Broker: Straub Resales)
 
 MERRICK $190,000
 1734 Kirkwood Avenue
 3-bedroom, 1-bath, 43-year-old ranch; dining room, eat-in kitchen, finished basement, family room, 1-car garage; taxes $4,600, listed at $199,000, 1 1/2 weeks on market (Brokers: Prudential 100; Your Home Realty)
 
 OLD BROOKVILLE $615,000
 33 High Farms Road
 6-bedroom, 5 1/2-bath, 5-year-old colonial; family room, pool, 2 decks; taxes $11,000, listed at $699,000, 4 weeks on market (Brokers: U.S. 1 Brookville; Daniel Gale McCrate)
 
 WILLISTON PARK $187,000
 168 Primrose Road
 3-bedroom, 1-bath, 70-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, fireplace, basement; taxes, $3,400, listed at $199,000, 1 week on market (Broker: Atanas Realty Corp.)
 
 CONNECTICUT
 
 FAIRFIELD $116,500
 30 Biro Street
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 65-year-old colonial; dining room, full basement, 50- by 100-ft. lot; taxes $1,314, listed at $121,000, 8 weeks on market (Broker: Century 21/Coastal; Richter Agency)
 
 GREENWICH $870,000
31 Boulder Brook
 3-bedroom, 2-bath, 47-year-old ranch; dining room, eat-in kitchen, family room, solarium, 2 fireplaces, pool,
c/a; 2-car garage, 1.43-acre lot; taxes $5,664, listed at $925,000, 36 weeks on market (Brokers: Preferred Properties; Greater Greenwich)
 
 NEW CANAAN $655,000
 1380 Ponus Ridge Road
 3-bedroom, 3-bath, 39-year-old detached contemporary; new road, pool, 3 decks, 1-car garage, 2 acres; taxes $7,313, listed at $850,000, 12 weeks on market (Brokers: William Pitt Real Estate; Mable Lamb)
 
 WESTON $312,000
 7 Hill Farm Road
 3-bedroom, 2-bath, 28-year-old contemporary ranch; dining room, 2 decks and fireplaces, greenhouse, 2-car garage, 2 acres; taxes $4,604, listed at $334,900, 28 weeks on market (Brokers: Weichert Realtors; Coldwell Banker/Schlott Realtors)
 
WESTCHESTER
 
 BEDFORD $270,000
 30 Appleby Drive
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2 bath, 30-year-old raised ranch; fireplace, screened porch, family room; taxes $6,825; listed at $299,000, 43 weeks on market (Broker: Coldwell Banker)
 
 EASTCHESTER $84,500
 260 Garth Road
 1-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 31-year-old co-op; terrace, powder room, balcony; maintenance $443, 48% deductible; listed at $94,900, 28 weeks on market (Brokers: Julia B. Fee Condo Center; The Prudential Ragette)
 
 MAMARONECK $409,000
 625 Shore Acres Drive
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 28-year-old raised ranch; deck, 2-car garage; taxes $9,820, listed at $419,000, 17 weeks on market (Brokers: Merritt Associates; Julia B. Fee)
 
 TUCKAHOE $83,500
 14 Westview Avenue
 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 29-year-old co-op; entry foyer, den, parking; maintenance $447, 50% deductible; listed at $89,900, 26 weeks on market (Brokers: The Prudential Ragette; Century 21 Hillcrest)

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Data Update" shows motgage rates in the region and indexes of housing costs from 1991 to 1994. (Sources: HSH Associates, Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); CITIES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



581 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: DINING OUT;
Satisfying Brunches for Wintry Sundays

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
AN UPBEAT remedy for winter's cabin fever is to go out for Sunday brunch. Brunch is pleasant any season, of course, but in winter the leisurely and cozy aspects of it seem especially suitable indoors.
There is another good argument for going out for Sunday brunch -- an economic one. Often a three- or four-course prix-fixe brunch is a relatively inexpensive way to entertain. 
 The Sunday brunch trade has become so competitive that many places provide such an abundance that a brunch is the equivalent of a midday Sunday dinner. Some restaurants offer the inducement of live music.
Here are a few appealing Sunday brunches that we have sampled on recent Sundays.
We enjoyed a lively brunch, complete with rambunctious tuba and banjo music, at the MEETING STREET GRILL in Westport, where a fixed price of $16.95 bought a choice of five juices, eight appetizers and nine entrees. As befits a restaurant with a regional menu, the brunch choices had a Southern/Southwestern accent. We also could have ordered from the a la carte lunch menu, but who could pass up starters like she-crab soup (creamy and authentically Charlestonian), barbecue beef quesadilla with avocado salsa or smoked salmon with pickled okra and grilled bagel chips? Not us.
The prix-fixe entrees were just as seductive: blue corn-blueberry pancakes with maple pecan butter and apple-smoked bacon, Belgian-style waffle with homemade country sausage, French toast with Grand Marnier and fresh strawberries and crab and crawfish cakes with lemon-fennel remoulade and fresh vegetables. Even the Meeting Street eggs (a house version of eggs Benedict) had a special touch, with Southern tasso ham and roasted red pepper hollandaise.
Accompanying all this was a basket of miniature jalapeno cornpones, sticky buns, buttermilk biscuits, banana pecan bread and blueberry muffins. Request a ground-level table; upstairs service was unusually slow because the kitchen is downstairs and our put-upon waiter had to clamber up and and down stairs frequently, resulting in long delays between courses.
Meeting Street Grill, 1563 Post Road East, Westport. 256-3309. American Express, Mastercard and Visa accepted. Reservations accepted. 12 to 2:30 P.M.
CAFE CHRISTINA, also in Westport, dishes up a low-key brunch to the mellow background music of a jazz duo of acoustical guitar and bass. There is no brunch menu per se, but in addition to regular lunch entrees (including our favorite risotto fritters, served with a refreshing green salad and grilled mushrooms for $9.50), there are three brunch entrees at $12. Especially tasty were the two poached eggs with grilled pancetta and spinach on crispy polenta with fontina cheese sauce and whole wheat French toast with homemade breakfast sausage (very spicy slices), warm maple syrup and spiced apples. The setting, in the former library-revised into a touch of Italy (with walls painted in sunny pastels), seems especially laid back on a wintry Sunday.
Cafe Christina, 1 Main Street, Westport. 221-7950. Major credit cards accepted. Reservations only for groups of five or larger. 12 to 3 P.M.
Sunday brunch at STONEHENGE in Ridgefield has long been a Fairfield County tradition, but the happy secret is the excellent value it represents. The sum of $24 buys an appetizer, salad, entree, dessert, coffee or tea and a glass of wine. What makes this so remarkable is that the choices in each menu category are all tempting, and many of the entree selections are as suitable for Sunday dinner as for lunch. Though the menu changes weekly, eggs Benedict is a constant.
Our most successful choices on a recent Sunday were French onion soup, followed by a light mixed green salad, then an entree of wild mushroom ravioli in an Alfredo sauce, served with buttery carrot slivers and broccoli. Apple tart (including an excellent crust) with vanilla ice cream was an irresistible dessert. Service was on the slapdash side, but the restful, well-appointed dining room, with views of the pond and snow-etched trees and bushes made the experience a winning one.
Stonehenge, Route 7, Ridgefield. 438-6511. Major credit cards accepted. Reservations recommended. First seating is at 11:30 A.M., second at 2 P.M. (though it is possible to reserve a table between those times).
The area's most unusual Sunday happening is at RESTAURANT MICHE MACHE, South Norwalk, which features a gospel brunch. After diners have consumed a delicious Southern-style buffet of fried chicken, smothered pork chops, red-eye gravy, cheese grits, black-eyed peas, collard greens and other tasty vittles, the hourlong songfest begins.
Jean Cheek and Faces, a professional Broadway gospel singer and her vocal choir and keyboard performer, joyfully belt out song after song and encourage audience participation. For us it was a memorable day that bears repeating. The $25 tab for the works -- buffet, nonalcoholic beverages and entertainment -- is a real bargain.
Restaurant Miche Mache, 18 South Main Street, South Norwalk. 838-8605. Major credit cards accepted. Reservations essential. Seatings between 12 and 12:30 P.M., show begins at 1:15 P.M.
Everything at L'ABBEE in New Canaan seems custom made, from the attentive service to each brunch dish. There is no prix-fixe menu, but there is a congenial a la carte mix of brunch specialties featuring eggs and other entrees, from about $9.50 to $14.50. There is always an omelet du jour, a sumptuous eggs Benedict, French toast and griddlecakes with a choice of berries. Our brunch favorite was buttermilk griddlecakes with blueberries, served with hot syrup. L'Abbee's aromatic hazelnut coffee is a signature and is especially satisfying at Sunday brunch. The prime tables are in or near the windows; the rear room seems to us a bit too dark for daytime (though romantic at night).
L'Abbee, 62 Main Street, New Canaan. 972-6181. American Express, Mastercard and Visa accepted. Reservations accepted. 11:30 A.M. to 3 P.M.
Other places in the area where we have enjoyed agreeable and well-priced Sunday brunch are the HOMESTEAD INN, 420 Field Point Road, Greenwich (869-7500), where you can dine in front of a roaring fire and the entree price ($18 to $24) includes appetizer, dessert and beverage, and the ROGER SHERMAN INN, 195 Oenoke Ridge, New Canaan (966-4541), where the prix-fixe $22.75 brunch includes appetizer, soup or salad, entree and dessert.
Fairfield County has no exclusive on Sunday brunch. Connecticut's most famous is probably the Hunt Breakfast at the GRISWOLD INN, 36 Main Street, Essex (767-1812), with a $12.95 meal-and-a-half buffet (children under 6 free). Among many other attractive winter brunch spots around the state are the SIMSBURY 1820 HOUSE, 731 Hopmeadow Street, Simsbury (658-7658), with a $16.95 all-you-can-eat brunch buffet in an inn setting; BACCI'S, 900 Main Street South, Southbury (262-1250), with a four-course (and champagne) $18.95 brunch, served in front of a fire; BOULDERS INN, Lake Waramaug, Route 45, New Preston (868-0541), with a three-course $16.50 brunch; APRICOTS, 1593 Farmington Avenue (Route 4), Farmington (673-5405), with a three-course $11.95 brunch overlooking the Farmington River, and the HARVEST AT BALD HILL, Junction of Routes 169 and 171, South Woodstock (974-2240), with a $13.95 brunch (choice of entree, baked goods, dessert and coffee).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: V (NYSE) (63%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (63%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (63%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); MENU PRICES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); CHEESE (88%); PORK (76%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (70%); LEGISLATION (66%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, PATRICIA

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



582 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2970 words

HEADLINE: Economic Revolution: The 10-Day Tour

 BODY:
Secretary of the Treasury Lloyd Bentsen boarded a plane nearly two weeks ago for an inspection of two huge transformations -- the move from Communism to a free market in Russia and the surge from poverty to modernity in the space of a generation by 2 billion people in Asia. His journey, intended to promote American business and economic interests, brought home to the Secretary and his entourage the striking contrast between the tentativeness of the transition in Russia and the ferocity of it in Asia.
What follows is a diary of this journey by Thomas L. Friedman, chief economics correspondent of The New York Times, who accompanied the Treasury Secretary. 

Shannon, Ireland, Jan. 11
 First stop, Ireland.
What does Ireland have to do with this trip? Well, don't tell America's competitors about this, but members of the United States Cabinet still fly around the world in a museum-quality fleet of Boeing 707's maintained by the Air Force. These planes are so old they cannot fly to continental Europe in one leap; hence the refueling stop in Shannon, which adds three hours to the trip to Moscow.
Secretary Bentsen's plane -- U.S. Air Force 26000 -- is the same plane that brought John F. Kennedy's body back from Dallas in November 1963. Yes, the United States Secretary of the Treasury is off touting American technology, software and financial services to the world's big emerging economies, flying in a puddle-jumper designed in the 1950's. Traveling the information highway by Pony Express.
 
Moscow, Jan. 12
It is Day One and Mr. Bentsen and his top aide, Lawrence Summers, the Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, spent it closeted with senior Russian economic officials. They basically told the Russians that the United States would squeeze its Western allies and lending institutions to speed up aid to Russia -- but only after it sees a firm commitment by the new Russian Government and parliament to restructure the budget, curb the money supply, put into bankruptcy most of the inefficient state industries and spend some of the savings to help the unemployed.
Mr. Bentsen seems sober about the prospects of the Russians heeding any of this; it's not the economics, it's the politics of it all that seems so daunting.
"I know a little something about the difficulty of writing a budget," said the former chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
Mr. Bentsen's staff was preparing the Secretary for a meeting with Viktor V. Gerashchenko, chairman of Russia's Central Bank and a source of American sobriety because of his penchant for printing rubles to solve every budget problem. A top Bentsen aide suggests the Secretary begin his meeting with Mr. Gerashchenko by dusting off his putdown of Dan Quayle: "I know Alan Greenspan. Alan Greenspan is a friend of mine. And you, Mr. Gerashchenko, are no Alan Greenspan."
Mr. Gerashchenko later reinforced American concerns about his competence when he joined Mr. Bentsen in opening the first Citibank office in Moscow. Mr. Gerashchenko was shown the Citibank computer, which was running a software program called Micro Banker. "I understand the meaning of a bank," said the Russian Central Banker to his hosts. "I like the words 'micro' and 'macro,' but not in economics. I don't understand all this stuff about micro and macro."
 
Moscow, Jan. 13
Secretary Bentsen and Secretary of State Warren Christopher split from the talks between President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin to preside over the opening of the American Chamber of Commerce in Moscow, closed since the Bolshevik revolution. What was striking about the remarks by Mr. Christopher and Mr. Bentsen was how similar they were. Each man said he saw it as his top responsibility today to promote American business abroad. Mr. Christopher says diplomacy is now economics and Mr. Bentsen says economics is now foreign policy.
Listening to them captured the degree to which their jobs have merged in the post-Cold War world. The Secretary of the Treasury can no longer do his job without spending a good deal of time as a traveling salesman for American business and the Secretary of State will have little job to do if he confines himself to the classical diplomacy of arms control and peacemaking.
They even share a common jargon now. Mr. Summers remarked that as he was sitting in on the Clinton-Yeltsin talks at the Kremlin he was struck at how the word "tough" was being used by the participants. In the old days, it referred to a Russian or American leader's willingness to risk military confrontation in pursuit of strategic advantage. But in the Clinton-Yeltsin meetings, he said, "Tough was being used to refer to how strongly opposed you were to inflation."
Tough was also being used by the American businessmen at the chamber lunch to describe trying to operate in Russia.
"Not only is it risky in terms of economics, but there are a lot of contract laws that are lacking to protect business," said Max W. Dajnowicz, head of the General Motors operations in Russia. "There are no laws of repossession, for instance. If a customer does not make payment, you can't go and repossess what you sold. So everything is conducted with cash. The second problem we have is the escalating crime. It is very difficult for foreigners to come in here. We are very obvious, very exposed, and we usually carry more money than the average citizens. So we are targeted quickly.
"Another huge problem is taxes," he said. "The cars we bring in here to sell are taxed at 134 percent. A $20,000 Chevrolet all of a sudden costs $34,000. On top of the taxes, they want to test all of our cars to make sure they are safe for the Russians. Get this, they want us to pay for the tests -- $25,000 per model!"
His advice to American businesspeople thinking of opening shop here: "Analyze the situation very carefully before you come. A lot of companies have come here and left here very disenchanted with a lot fewer dollars in their pocket."
 
Moscow, Jan. 14
Mr. Bentsen, who is 72, was looking a little worn out today. It may be from trying to keep up with the grueling pace of President Clinton. Or it could be the after-effects of the 24-course meal -- ending with moose lips -- that Mr. Yeltsin served the American delegation at his country home last night.
As Mr. Bentsen was leaving the home, the Russian President gave him a bear hug and, through a translator, whispered to him: "You are going to get me my money, aren't you?" Mr. Bentsen just smiled.
The Treasury Secretary washed out the taste of moose lips ("they're like mush," he reported) by touring the Red October chocolate factory, one of the more successful state-owned enterprises that has been turned into a private company owned by the workers. (All the same, what looked like a life-sized white-chocolate statue of Lenin still graces its lobby.) In a burst of solidarity, Mr. Bentsen ended the tour by opening his wallet, plunking down $20 and buying one share of the company from its director, Anatoly Duarsky.
Mr. Duarsky, a former Communist Party member with the pear-shaped physique of someone who enjoys sampling his own wares, invited reporters into his office for tea and bonbons and talk about what it is like for a manager to make the transition from socialism to capitalism in the space of one year.
He held his head tightly in his hands as though trying to keep it from exploding and described the biggest thing about being a capitalist: "I have more worries. I have to study the relevant legislation every day of my life. I have to think what to do next because of that legislation. You have to think about everything. I am sorry I was born so early. If I had been born 15 years later, it would have been wonderful."
Despite privatization, Mr. Duarsky said, the Government has not lost entirely its habit of telling him where to ship chocolates. Last month he was told to send some containers to the far north, before it was cut off by the winter snow and ice, even though it seemed unlikely he'd be paid. So what did he do? He shipped them.
"You have to show understanding," explained the capitalist-in-training. When we responded that Nestle would not treat the citizens of Alaska so kindly, he answered: "It would not be right if we stopped delivering merchandise there just because they can't pay."
 
Jakarta, Indonesia, Jan. 17
We're moving up in the world. The White House switched our plane in Moscow and we're now flying in the Air Force Boeing 707 that brought Richard Nixon to China in 1972.
Secretary Bentsen spoke this morning to the American Chamber of Commerce in Indonesia. What a difference from Moscow! In Moscow, the American businessmen began their meeting by having a local minister lead them in a prayer for the Russian economy. Here, Secretary Bentsen spoke for about 15 minutes and then told the businessmen he would answer their questions for 30 minutes. After 15 minutes, there were no more questions. The Indonesian economy is so hot, and so open to Americans, that they all just wanted to get back to work.
"Everybody has meetings, nobody has time," Sean Kendall Richardson, a young lawyer just dispatched here by the New York firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, said as he breezed out the door. "We've got more work than we can handle."
How does doing business here compare with New York?
"The most striking thing is that it is not adversarial -- everyone just wants to get the deal done," Mr. Richardson said. "Nobody wants to get anybody else angry. There is no need to get anybody mad with an economy growing this fast."
Indeed, Indonesia is now the world's fourth-most-populous nation, with 180 million people. Rich in natural resources, from timber to oil, and led for 25 years by a relatively stable dictator, President Suharto, it is exploding economically. In the last 25 years, the number of Indonesians living below the poverty line fell to 15 percent from 60 percent. Mr. Summers tells us that over the last 100 years the American economy grew sevenfold. Indonesia and the other Asian "dragons" will do that in one generation, he said.
In the process, Indonesia is expected to spend about $110 billion on infrastructure between now and the year 2000, in part to link its 13,000 islands through advanced telecommunications. But American businesspeople are grossly underrepresented here, compared with Japan and the European Community, which is one reason the Treasury Secretary has come to hoist the flag.
Jakarta is orderly, clean and a kaleidoscope of flora. Coming here from wintry Moscow feels like someone changed the channel to color from black and white.
"I go away for six months and come back and I don't recognize some streets, that's how fast building is going up," said John M. Daniels, general manager of P&O Spice Island Cruises, and a resident here for 16 years.
Edward R. Gustely, a refugee from I.B.M. who opened a consulting firm called PAK here to help newcomers break into the market, says working in Jakarta can be stressful, but not like Moscow.
"The stress here comes from trying to focus on all the opportunities, because there are so many," he explained. "Sometimes you don't know where to turn next. I guess it's like America was in the 1950's and 60's, when people were sure that tomorrow would be better than yesterday."
 
Bangkok, Thailand, Jan. 18
Secretary Bentsen visited the Thai Stock Exchange today and was mobbed by Asian reporters. For the first time since we left Washington his Secret Service guards had to form a protective cordon around him, as some 25 photographers and television cameramen jostled each other to take his picture with a competitive ferocity normally reserved for Michael Jackson and Madonna. It was very odd. Mr. Bentsen seemed bemused.
The explanation, Thai journalists said, was that this is a mercantile culture, with a booming economy and a stock market that doubled in value between September and December, enriching millions of Thais. Every street corner exudes commercial activity. This is a place that respects economic power, so the American Treasury Secretary gets the celebrity treatment.
Also, many Thais are hungry for more American presence. They resent the fact that after the Vietnam War ended Washington seemed to lose interest in Thailand. Japan filled the void. Now many Thais want us back more than ever to play the role of balancer between them, Japan, Vietnam and China -- both militarily and economically. It is a reminder of how America's continued security role around the world can also be good for business.
Said Thanong Khanthong, a financial editor with The Nation newspaper in Bangkok: "People here are suspicious of the Japanese domination. The Japanese are everywhere. All of our daily life is involved with Japanese products. You watch a Japanese television, listen to a Japanese radio, drive a Japanese car, shower with Japanese soap and tell time with your Japanese watch. We want the Americans to counterbalance them."
At a luncheon speech Secretary Bentsen gave to the Thai Bankers Association, it was striking to hear some Thai businessmen complaining of the same sort of migraine headaches that Mr. Duarsky, the Russian chocolate maker, complained about. But here, the source of headaches is a different kind of change, not from socialism to capitalism, but from rudimentary capitalism to high-speed capitalism.
"What happened here in the early 1990's," explained Chaktip Nitibhon, general manager of Banque Indosuez, "is that the business sector grew so fast it simply outstripped the legal and financial infrastructure. So, since 1991, the Government has passed 270 new financial and regulatory laws to facilitate the next stage of development. They set up a securities and exchange commission to police the stock market; they reduced tariffs so more industries here would have to compete with the world market; they passed all sorts of tax and environmental laws."
What that means for Thai businessmen, Mr. Chaktip said, "is that everything has speeded up. You have to be reading the paper every day, keep up with all the news and then check with the Government that the news that is printed is correct. It's exhausting."
 
Beijing, Jan. 21
The latest joke in Beijing is that China has a new national bird -- the crane, because the skyline here is dotted with construction cranes. In fact, the satellite dish and the crane seem to have replaced the hammer and sickle as the symbols of the post-Communist world.
Shortly after arriving, Mr. Bentsen went off to Zhonganhai, the walled compound near the Forbidden City where Chinese leaders live and work, to meet Prime Minister Li Peng and his deputies. Every one of the Chinese officials arrived in a new Mercedes sedan. It seemed to underscore the way the old Stalinist political structure here is surfing along on a surging, increasingly free market economy that the leaders have unleashed below.
China is still a politically repressive place. A Bentsen aide had an important document disappear from her room while it was being guarded by Chinese security when she was out.
While such Stalinist shenanigans were going on on the 12th floor, though, in the lobby they were selling every important newspaper in the world, which any Chinese can buy. Indeed, the police state here is being gradually undercut by the proliferation of new sources of information that are demanded by a free market connected to the global economy.
On the roof are three satellite dishes, one pulling in CNN, another the BBC and another Japanese television. Pirate satellite dishes are in Chinese homes all over town. In the newspaper is a story about how Chinese universities are banning students from wearing their beepers to class because too many go off at once.
On the way to his meeting with Prime Minister Li, Mr. Bentsen drove through the very intersection where that lone, heroic Chinese student stopped the tank during the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989. Today, on that very corner, is the biggest McDonald's in the world. If that same student were to stop a tank there today, a huge Ronald McDonald would be in the picture.
Both Prime Minister Li and the Central Bank chairman, Zhu Rongji, spent a great deal of time in their meeting with Mr. Bentsen grilling him about his impressions of Russia and explaining to him why China's reform approach was so different and why there was no need here for "shock therapy." Some American officials interpreted this, in part, as China's leaders' way of saying: Don't even think about pressing us on the same sort of radical political changes that Russia is undergoing. China can't tolerate that.
But American officials also detected a certain sibling rivalry in the Chinese leaders' intense interest in their former Communist comrades. Russia and China are like two brothers who both left home at the same time. One is making it big on Wall Street and the other is still looking for a steady job. With more than a hint of mischievousness, China's leaders seem to be saying to Mr. Bentsen: "So, I understand you saw my brother Ivan last week. Tell me, how's he doing?"
Such scenes are a reminder of what this trip has really been about: great historical experiments unfolding before our eyes, not in laboratories, but in the real world. One, in Russia, is an experiment to see whether it is possible to build democratic political institutions before a functioning market economy is in place.
The jury is still out, but Moscow is heavy with a mood of pessimism. China is an experiment as to whether it is possible to develop a thriving free-market economy without democratic political reform. Here, the jury is also still out, but, to look around this place, it is not obvious that they will fail.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lloyd Bentsen beginning his tour selling the technology of the future from the old jet that carried President Kennedy's body from Dallas. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 1); On a tour of the Red October chocolate factory in Moscow. (Reuters); Meeting President Suharto of Indonesia (left) in Jakarta. (Agence France-Presse); With China's Central Bank chairman, Zhu Rongji. (Associated Press); With Som Jatusipitak, president of the Siam City Bank. (Associated Press)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (76%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); US AIR FORCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (76%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRAVEL, PERSONAL TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); POLITICS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); MONEY SUPPLY (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC) JOHN F KENNEDY (86%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (69%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



583 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: January 16-21

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
A Stubborn Public Finally Admits It: Things Are Looking Up
In some ways, public opinion is shamelessly fickle, but on the economy it's like a huge tanker -- it takes massive force to make it change direction. For months now, the economic numbers have been consistently strong -- whether on car sales, unemployment or housing starts (which just took another jump). Reflecting this vigor, stock prices are setting records almost daily. But not until last week did the public finally sign on. A poll showed that for the first time since mid-1990, when recession began chipping away at spirits -- and at George Bush's job security -- half of Americans expressed confidence in the economy. So it's no surprise that President Clinton, who can thank the recession for his job, now has the approval of 54 percent of the public. One heartening figure: A year ago, 40 percent of Americans feared for a family member's job; that's down to 21 percent. 

Out of the Rubble . . . Metrolink
There's always a silver lining. Sometimes, as in last week's earthquake in Los Angeles, you just have to look harder. Try this: The construction industry should pick up. (One catch: How will construction workers get to their jobs?) Or this: The mess could spur legislation requiring earthquake insurance, so taxpayers would pay less of the tab. Of the $15 billion-plus in damage, insurers will pick up only $1 billion or so. But the true silver lining may be that some Californians made a startling discovery -- it's possible to take a train to work. Ridership on Metrolink, opened in 1992, was up 50 percent after the quake. It's a wrenching change. "There's always that bond to your car," said one true Californian. But another discovered a well-known joy of mass transit: You can read the paper.
 
Always in Season: Tax Cuts
It's funny how at crucial moments politicians talk of tax cuts. Last week, sprinting out of the gate as New Jersey's Governor, Christine Todd Whitman vowed to cut state income taxes immediately. And Mario Cuomo, having just ended the latest will-Cuomo-run? vigil, said he'd cut business taxes. The approaches differed, but the message was the same. Mr. Cuomo: "New York State believes in business." Ms. Whitman: "New Jersey is open for business." Each wants to end the migration of employers to low-tax states. But will either state ever be a cheap place to do business?
 
A Closer U.S. Look at Fish
Fish can be killers -- sometimes because they eat you; more often because you eat them. About 9,000 Americans die annually from food poisoning, many from tainted fish, so people have grown suspect of anything that comes of age in increasingly troubled waters. The average person now eats 8 percent less seafood than in 1987. So last week the Government said it would start keeping an eye on the industry's safety procedures and require shellfish to be labeled by origin. All fish must come from water the Government says is clean -- assuming it can find any. The seafood industry loves the idea -- its image has nowhere to go but up -- but consumer groups say the rules will not do enough. And the rest of us will just have to be sure not to swallow any "Born in Maine" labels.
 
New York Banks on the Mend
Two years ago, New York's banking giants, loaded with real estate loans that promised nothing but trouble, seemed headed for the endangered list. But they've been rescued by a combination of stable real estate prices, which help them sell foreclosed properties, and low interest rates, which help borrowers pay off loans. Last week Chase, Citicorp and Chemical said loan losses fell sharply in the fourth quarter, and all reported solid profits.
 
COMPANIES
 
At Chrysler, Success Is Routine
Detroit is suddenly so mighty the stock market looks at the most stunning news and says, "So what?" After Chrysler said last week that its quarterly earnings had nearly doubled, to a record $777 million, the stock inched ahead almost by reflex, then promptly slipped back even more, to end the week at $60.25. But then again, just look at this stock, which a few years ago was being practically given away -- in September 1990 it sold for less than $10, and in the last year it has nearly doubled. It's not alone, though: its Big Three siblings are also roaring ahead.
 
Seagram Worries Time Warner
You'd think any company that survived one bloody takeover battle would be exempt from such distractions for a decent interval. But that ignores the new obsession with media companies, which are seen as holding a key to the fabled information eight-laner. Paramount is surrounded by suitors, and now Time Warner, which not long ago emerged from its own scuffle with Paramount, thinks it's hearing taps on its door too. Seagram has been quietly buying Time Warner shares, saying last week that it had raised its stake to 11.7 percent from 10.4 percent -- as an investment. "Obviously, Time Warner feels threatened," one observer put it, and it quickly laid plans to flood the market with new shares if necessary to dilute the value of any intruder's stake. But Time Warner is costly prey: at current prices, it's worth $15 billion.
 
But You Know You're in Fashion
A lot of it's understandable, in a strange sort of way. A trendy name on a handbag whispers to the world that you're a person of immense taste. A car's name in big letters on a windshield screams: "I am who I am. Want to make something of it?" But . . . underwear? Unless your office attire does not normally include pants, a fashionable name on your underwear makes a limited impression. But that hasn't stopped Calvin Klein's men's underwear business -- propelled by ads that look downright painful in sub-zero weather -- from being highly profitable. Last week Warnaco paid $64 million for the business, with Warnaco's chairman, Linda Wachner, justifying the purchase by saying, "People are always going to wear" underwear. But will they always be willing to pay for such an invisible fashion statement?
 
I.R.S. Eyes Pennzoil's Billions
You thought the Pennzoil-Texaco-Getty mess was over? Think again. The labyrinthine battle seemingly ended in 1988, after four years in which a lot of lawyers burned up a lot of stockholder money. In the settlement, Texaco paid Pennzoil $3 billion for mucking up its plans to buy Getty. But the I.R.S. kept its eye on that $3 billion, and last week Pennzoil said the agency wanted nearly $1 billion of it in back taxes. Pennzoil, it seems, used $2.2 billion to buy Chevron shares, calling it a tax-free replacement for Getty shares. But the I.R.S. says the money looks a lot like income, and wants its cut. So now, you guessed it: appeals, court fights, and the lawyers' meters will start running again.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Cracks in the Japanese Dream
When Japan ruled the world, Japan Airlines luxuriated in the nation's wealth. Travelers were pampered with extra flight attendants, and pilots commuted by limousine. So it's a fitting symbol that as Japan's economy has been battered, the airline -- Government-controlled until 1987 -- has been badly humbled. Business travelers are cutting back, and such foreign carriers as United are proving potent rivals. Last week all this took a heavy toll, as J.A.L. -- facing an annual loss of about $235 million -- said it would slash its work force by 5,000, or fully 23 percent. Just wait til Southwest Airlines, a truly fierce rival, makes it across the Pacific.
 
Toyota is not laying anyone off, but it also made a radical departure last week from the idea of lifetime employment. Seeking to revitalize its design department, it said it would start hiring some car designers just a year at a time. In Japan, such white-collar contract workers are rarities.
 
In Russia, Reform Must Wait
In spite of what some in the West may think, market economies are not made in a day. That, at any rate, seemed to be Boris Yeltsin's message last week when he named a Cabinet less focused on radical economic reform. Yes, he had just promised President Clinton that he was committed to change. But in the end, as one diplomat said, "the West was probably irrelevant." The final blow came when Russia's Finance Minister, Boris Fyodorov, a staunch reformer, resigned rather than take part in this new approach -- one that is expected to spark inflation, further eroding the value of the ruble.
 
China Makes an Effort on Trade
China seems to be taking seriously the Administration's threats to cut off favorable trading status unless it makes some changes. In the first of two breakthroughs last week, China and the United States resolved a dispute in which the White House had threatened to cut Chinese textile imports by more than $1 billion as China agreed to slow the growth of exports. Later in the week, China agreed to open its prisons to American inspectors to make sure prison labor is not fueling the export mill. It remains to be seen whether this is all just window-dressing to allow President Clinton to justify extending trade favors, or whether China is making a true effort.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing: Percentage who view the economy as fair to very good from 1991 to 1993 (Sources: Polls by the NYT and CBS News; Commerce Department), daily closing prices for Ford, Chrysler and General Motors from July to January (Source: Datastream) and fourth quarter net income of Chase, Chemical Banking and Citicorp for 1992 and 1993. (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER SPORTS (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); EARTHQUAKES (87%); TAX LAW (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INSURANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); INCOME TAX (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



584 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: Here's a Switch: Now They're Fighting Over Garbage

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
WHO owns garbage?
That is not a trivial question, because garbage disposal has grown far more complicated than simply paying someone to haul it away and dump it in a hole. 
 Towns and villages, under mounting pressure to be kinder to the environment, are making big investments in recycling and disposal centers. This "green" approach, though, is usually not the cheapest one, at least in the short run, and private trash haulers insist that if they can do the job for less, they should be allowed to.
But such unfettered competition poses problems. For one thing, towns say that if they are to justify a substantial investment in trash-handling, they must be assured of receiving all local garbage and recyclable materials -- that without this guaranteed volume, the system does not make economic sense. Also, if private haulers are allowed to undercut local programs, towns will be thwarted in their environmental efforts.
 Thus, many municipalities argue that they should make the rules. In fact, 27 states now have laws that allow local governments to impose controls on garbage handling.
But the privately owned haulers and processors who dominate the $63 billion-a-year trash industry are crying foul. Just as recycling markets are developing, and portions of the trash can are gaining value, they say, local governments are grabbing for materials once handled by the private sector.
This dispute is at the heart of a case pending before the Supreme Court -- a case involving Rockland County, N.Y., that could create ripples nationwide. If the Court does not prove sympathetic to local control, it could hurt the ratings of bonds issued to cover incinerators and disposal centers.
Who would have thought a few years ago that a battle would be raging over the nation's trash? As one local landfill after another was closed by state regulators, and as some politicians stood defiantly against importing another state's garbage, a landfill crisis appeared imminent. But owners of huge rural landfills welcome the trash, and new techniques make it ever cheaper to get it there, so from a strictly economic standpoint that crisis has all but evaporated.
So the battle lines have formed over whether towns have the right to all local garbage -- what has come to be called "flow control."
"Flow control is anticompetitive," said Alan Blakey, a spokesman for the National Solid Waste Management Association, which represents trash collectors and sorters.
And Hershel Cutler, executive director of the Institute for Scrap Recycling Industries, said, "It's an economic issue." His group represents many companies that reprocessed materials long before recycling came into vogue, and he said municipalities are trying to grab valuable recyclable materials at the expense of private companies.
But to public officials forced into action by state law, the issue is the ability to build waste-management facilities that will be economical to operate. "Without flow control, how can we plan?" asked Michael D. Diederich Jr., an assistant county attorney in Rockland County, northwest of New York City. He said local governments need the assurance of a steady supply of material before they can sell the bonds needed to build recycling and composting plants.
While environmentalists want to recycle as much as possible, the payback for different materials varies widely. If the private sector can drain valuable material out of the system, it could change the economics for local governments, making it harder for them to float bonds or pay them off.
The issue is of more than passing interest in Rockland, because a lawsuit arising from an ordinance enacted by one of its five towns, Clarkstown, is pending before the Supreme Court. Since the case will probably establish the court's view of the extent to which governments can control garbage, it is of considerable interest nationwide.
Environmentalists are keeping an eye on the case as well, but some have mixed feelings about it because flow control has been used in the past largely to assure a steady supply of trash to feed incinerators. Environmentalists take a dim view of incinerators because they are likely to be a source of air pollution and tend to divert attention from alternatives like recycling.
But some environmentalists see a place for flow control. "To get into the recycling game, vendors building processing plants need some certainty," said John Ruston, a solid-waste specialist at the Environmental Defense Fund in New York.
And Allen Hershkowitz, a scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York, said, "If the Supreme Court decision wipes out flow control, it could hurt recycling long-term."
The Supreme Court case, C & A Carbone v. Clarkstown, N.Y., developed as a result of a law adopted by Clarkstown in 1990. It directed that all trash collected in town go to a single transfer station, where valuable material could be separated and the remainder packed into large trucks for shipment to out-of-state landfills and incinerators. The charge to dump at the transfer station, known as the tipping fee, was set at $81 a ton.
The Carbone company had operated a hauling and material separation operation in the town since the mid-1980's, and it continued to bring materials from outside for processing and disposal. But Carbone was charging just $70 to $72 a ton, said Ricki H. Berger, one of the company's lawyers. Carbone executives could not be reached for comment.
The company's operations drew the town's attention in 1991, when a truck carrying Carbone material got into an accident while driving illegally on the Palisades Parkway. Clarkstown demanded that all wastes Carbone processed be sent through the town's transfer station. Carbone objected, saying that because some of its waste came from out of state, it was protected by the commerce clause of the Constitution. The case was heard by the Supreme Court in December, and a ruling is expected in March.
Even though the case is off the central issue because Carbone handled mainly outside trash, a broad ruling could affect the ratings of billions of dollars of bonds sold to finance incinerators. As Moody's Investors Service noted recently, "Some solid-waste facilities protected by legal flow control charge substantially higher tipping fees than other relatively nearby facilities." The New York State Legislature has given Rockland the authority to adopt a flow control law, although it has not yet done so.
Still, county planners are drafting a waste disposal plan that appears to incorporate the latest in environmental thinking. Michael A. Cech, the county's solid-waste manager, said four new plants are on the drawing board to process the 1,000 tons of garbage generated in the county daily. One new plant will be able to squeeze that much recyclable material out of trash before the rest is sent for disposal. In contrast, at a typical transfer station recycling takes second place to assembling huge loads to be trucked away.
ALSO in the works is a composting plant where sewage sludge will be mixed with leaves and other yard waste, and possibly low-grade paper like newsprint, and turned into a rich soil additive. Another building will be used to collect such hazardous household wastes as bug sprays, gasoline and paint. Each type of waste will be stored separately until there is enough for shipment.
The last plant is intended to recycle construction and demolition debris and bulky items like old appliances.
"We are looking at a 49 percent to 59 percent recycling rate once the system is in operation," Mr. Cech said. But it will also require an investment of $40 million to $50 million, money that bond market investors may be reluctant to supply unless the plants have an assured source of material.
And as with most things environmental, the chief threat to the desirable solution is the presence of a cheap, but dirty, alternative. "Does the private sector have the right to come in and say we can dispose of garbage in a sleazy landfill more cheaply?" asked Mr. Diederich of Rockland.
Even if putting trash in landfills is cheaper now, that does not take into account the eventual cost of dealing with environmental problems caused by those landfills -- or the resources that can be saved by recycling.
Rockland officials say they are not interested in intruding on individuals' rights to dispose of their property as they wish. "If you have an old clothes dryer and you can get $15 by taking it to a scrap yard, go right ahead," Mr. Cech said. "If you want to give your newspapers to the Boy Scouts, fine. But once you put those things out on the curbside, they are pollution and they belong to us."
Mr. Diederich said it is unfortunate that the dispute has gone all the way to the Supreme Court. "Why can't a community decide how to manage its own waste," he said, "without outside entities coming in and saying, 'We want part of that'?"
The officials say flow control is so essential to their plans that they are working on alternatives in case the Supreme Court rules against them. Chief among the plans is what is known as economic flow control, as opposed to legal flow control. The plan would be to assess taxpayers, who pay for garbage disposal already, so that the tipping fee at county-owned plants could be lowered to the point where private disposers could not compete. The county would own the plants and set basic policy, but they would be operated by private contractors.
In the end, Congress may have to decide how much control communities have over their own trash, and who owns it.
The chairman of the transportation and hazardous material subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Representative Al Swift, Democrat of Washington, said late last year: "I think it is likely that Congress will have to address flow control in some fashion early in the next session."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Clarkstown Recycling Center in Rockland County, N.Y., is at the heart of a pending Supreme Court case. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) RECYCLING INDUSTRIES INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLARKSTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; ENVIRONMENT; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



585 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Helsinki Soars Amid Signs of Recovery

BYLINE: By Richard W. Stevenson

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
SCANDINAVIA has had a rough time economically for the past several years, and nowhere have times been tougher than in Finland. Only now, after a three-year downturn that could justifiably be called a depression, is the Finnish economy showing signs of life.
But on the Helsinki Stock Exchange, investors shed their doom-and-gloom attitude more than a year ago. After selling furiously as the Hex index fell from over 2,000 in 1989 to about 550 in the fall of 1992, they have since bid stock prices up sharply, making the market one of the world's best-performing last year. The index more than doubled to end 1993 at 1,580. And after a bull run in the first few weeks of this month, it is already up by another 18 percent or so this year, hitting a 12-month high on Thursday before closing slightly lower Friday at 1,856. 
 "To say it's been quite a year is an understatement for anyone involved in the Finnish equity market," said Jerry Raybold, the senior manager for equity trading and sales at Kansallis-Osake-Pankki Bank, Finland's largest commercial bank.
Finland's economic problems began with the collapse of its trade with the former Soviet Union, which until the late 1980's purchased more than 20 percent of Finnish exports. "It was as if the United States disappeared from the U.K.'s trade account," said Nicholas Stevenson, an economist with S. G. Warburg Securities in London.
The economic woes were exacerbated by the downturn in the world economy, which further hurt Finland's export-oriented industries. In addition, the Government continued to keep its currency tied to a basket of European currencies, forcing it to raise interest rates sharply.
By mid-1992 the economy was in free fall. Gross domestic product had shrunk by more than 10 percent over two years. Unemployment had risen to 18 percent, from under 5 percent. Exports had been choked off by the strong currency.
So the Government abandoned its stable-currency strategy, devalued the markka twice by nearly 30 percent in trade-weighted terms and began slashing interest rates. Exports again began flowing, bolstering corporate results, especially in key industries like paper and pulp.
The Government also stepped in to bail out the ailing banking sector, easing investor fears of a financial crisis.
The combination of falling interest rates and improved export results sent many investors back into the stock market early last year. At the same time, the Government removed some tax and regulatory burdens that had made investing in equities in Finland relatively unattractive, and it liberalized rules on investing through mutual funds. Moreover, it loosened regulations on investments by foreigners.
The resulting flow of funds into the market and the surge in share prices attracted considerable attention from international investors, including big institutions, Mr. Raybold said. From just over 10 percent of market capitalization in 1992, foreign ownership has jumped to as much as 25 percent, he said.
Despite the rapid rise in stock prices, analysts said there is no reason to think the market has peaked. At a time when most European markets are regularly setting new records, the Helsinki exchange remains below its all-time high of 2,009 in March 1989. Mr. Stevenson of S. G. Warburg said that non-financial stocks in Finland are currently trading at 12.5 times projected 1994 earnings, compared with 15.5 times 1994 earnings for the same universe of stocks in Britain.
In addition, the export boom seems to be helping the domestic economy begin to recover, although unemployment remains stubbornly above 18 percent and the Government's budget deficit amounts to nearly 20 percent of G.D.P.
Next month the nation will hold the final round of its presidential elections. Both candidates -- Martii Ahtisaari, a diplomat who is a member of the center-left Social Democrats, and Elisabeth Rehn, the current defense minister who is a member of the small center-right Finnish People's Party -- favor Finland's application to join the European Union.
Mr. Ahtisaari favors more spending to help alleviate unemployment, while Ms. Rehn is a fiscal conservative. But because Finland's president is primarily responsible for foreign affairs, with the prime minister in charge of domestic policy, the election is likely to bring little in the way of immediate change in economic strategy.
"You can't rule out a setback at some point for profit-taking, but fundamentally this market has more potential," said Keld Holm, a Scandinavian economist at Lehman Brothers in London. "Some of the domestic stocks could benefit because there should be room for them to improve margins."
Mr. Raybold said that among the stocks attracting the most attention from foreign investors was the Nokia Group, the Helsinki- based telecommunications and electronics company, which operates in 36 countries.
He said investors have also been attracted to the Metra Corporation, which makes diesel engines for marine and power generation use, and also has subsidiaries making bathroom fittings and magnetic keys for door locks. Metra is a classic export play, with 90 percent of its sales outside Finland.
Repola, one of the giant paper companies, has done well, Mr. Raybold said, and other analysts said that signs of improvement in worlwide paper and pulp prices could help the entire forest-products sector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FINLAND (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: OMX NORDIC EXCHANGE HELSINKI (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FINLAND; FINLAND (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); BONDS (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); DEVALUATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



586 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Manager's Profile

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:

Arthur J. Bonnel
 
 Fund: MIM Stock Appreciation, $58.5 million in assets. Manager since 1987 inception. (Sponsor: Mathematical Investing Systems, Cleveland.)
 
 Born: Aug. 20, 1945; Oakland, Calif. 

 Education: B.S., economics, University of Nevada, Reno.
 
 Last Vacation: One week in December in Maui with family.
 
 Fund Performance: One year, through December: +10.4% (all growth funds: +11.6%); five years: +20.4% (+18.2%)*
 
 Stock Market View: (self-rating; = most bullish).
 
 Stock Pick: Payless Cashways Inc., a home-improvement chain based in Kansas City, Mo., that is well positioned to benefit from the rebuilding following last year's floods in the Midwest.
 
 Current Strategy: "I'm looking for companies with good, aggressive long-term growth potential, not quiet growth."
 
 *Source: Morningstar Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (71%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (67%); MIDWEST USA (57%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); RENO, NV, USA (71%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MIM STOCK APPRECIATION FUND PAYLESS CASHWAYS INC (71%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIM STOCK APPRECIATION FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (67%); MIDWEST USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); RENO, NV, USA (71%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); BONDS (88%); HOME CENTERS (53%); 

PERSON: BONNEL, ARTHUR J

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



587 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Styles of The Times 

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Small Store, Big Move

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE SCHIRO 

 BODY:
FOR more than 40 years, Jimmy's has been a Brooklyn landmark, offering high-fashion men's and women's clothes to a well-heeled clientele that finds comfort in its family atmosphere. Now, the owners of Jimmy's -- Jimmy and Gloria Jacobs and their daughter and son-in-law, Betsy and Dominick Lepore -- have embarked on a risky venture: opening a boutique in Manhattan in a high-competition zone when the economy is not being kind to retail businesses.
On Friday, a miniature branch of Jimmy's opened at 150 East 72d Street, in an apartment building that is a short stroll from Madison Avenue's designer boutiques. 
 "People may think it's a bad time for a new store, but I think the time is right," Mr. Lepore said. "People are making money again, and I think things are going to get better."
Behind a lace-curtained door in the building's lobby is a room decorated like a French salon, with sponged gold walls, a shiny parquet floor, a huge gilt-framed mirror, black armchairs and a mammoth round mahogany table under a brass chandelier. "I wanted to create a golden environment that would be flattering to women," said Mrs. Jacobs, who called on Andrew Rubenoff, a set and lighting designer who grew up with her daughter, to remodel the interior.
Two side walls display clothes by designers like Karl Lagerfeld, Gianfranco Ferre, Genny, Mary McFadden, Thierry Mugler, Gemma Kahng, Sylvia Heisel and Pamela Dennis. A small area of men's sportswear includes offerings from Donna Karan, Prada and Fusco. There are also handbags by Prada and Judith Leiber, with plans to add shoes, belts and jewelry.
"The lady who becomes our customer wants it all," Mrs. Jacobs said. And that customer can afford to spend $900 for a vest or $2,000 for a cocktail dress.
In the back is a tiny kitchen, where wine, cheese, coffee and soft drinks are stocked to pamper customers. The idea is to attract affluent young East Siders, with a degree of personal service that has almost vanished.
"We wanted an intimate atmosphere," Mrs. Jacobs said. "But we didn't want a big, big place."
They still have their big store in Flatbush, at 1226 King's Highway, which will double as a sort of stockroom for the new boutique.
"We don't really know what the Manhattan customer will want," Mr. Lepore said, "so we can move merchandise back and forth. We've started with the first spring goods delivered, but there'll be a lot more designers represented when their orders come in."
And there will always be a Jacobs or a Lepore on hand. "Jimmy's is Jimmy's no matter where it is," Mr. Lepore said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gloria Jacobs in the new branch of her family's clothing store. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: JIMMY'S (NYC STORE) THIERRY MUGLER (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JIMMY'S (NYC STORE)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (74%); SOFT DRINKS (61%); 

PERSON: SCHIRO, ANNE-MARIE KARL LAGERFELD (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



588 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 14; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
Spending the Yule in a New Silver Spur

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
FOR a change, I did my Christmas shopping the right way. It wasn't any earlier, mind you. Nor did I do the shopping in a catalogue. I did it in a new Rolls-Royce.
There is something very nice about rolling up to Pier One Imports in a Rolls. And, of course, I was chauffeured. I had my son driving while I sat in the back on my wallet. 
 But I was cheered to be gliding around, sort of saying, "Ho, ho, ho," and thinking that life wasn't all that bad. It was, I thought, the way things ought to be.
I didn't even mind that the $189,900 Rolls was the bottom of the British company's line.
Actually, prices for the Rolls and Bentley models range from $147,100 for the Bentley Brooklands to $337,100 for the Rolls Silver Spur limousine. But, despite the big-buck gross that those prices imply, Rolls-Royce has been hurting.
For one thing, there has been the recession of the past years, not just here but everywhere. And so Rolls has downsized. It has cut its staff to 2,200, down from 4,700, by using buyouts and early retirement, and it reckons (company's word, not mine) that it can now break even by selling only 1,300 cars a year.
That is just about what Rolls sold worldwide in 1993, with 380 of the cars coming to the United States. This year, according to Reg Abbis, the company spokesman, the numbers should be a bit better. And increased productivity, along with the shorter staff and new markets, should mean that Rolls will sail happily into the next century.
"We had two years of very heavy losses," Abbis said. "But now those losses have been stemmed, and we've developed markets in places that weren't there before. For instance, we hadn't sold a Rolls in Russia since Lenin."
America, however, remains the most important market for the company, whose cars have filled a peculiar niche for almost 90 years. And, just for the record, it was on May 4, 1904, that Sir Henry Royce and Charles Stewart Rolls met for lunch and planned their partnership at the Midland Hotel in Manchester. A May ceremony will mark the event at the hotel, which is now a Holiday Inn.
"There's a new feeling of buoyancy because of what we've done," Abbis said. "We now have a streamlined force that is more attuned to what is needed. The craftsmanship is still there, but -- as has been said -- we want to take the grunt out of making the car."
Under the new regime, virtually every car is made to order, taking the company back to its beginnings. And customers are being urged to individualize their purchases. "We'll do whatever they wish, providing it's tasteful and legal," Abbis said.
The bread-and-butter car is the Silver Spur III, new this year and with 70 major engineering changes, including dual air bags, antilock brakes, a redesigned and higher-powered engine, improved ride characteristics and a smoother automatic transmission.
The test car was a black four-door with black vinyl roof and red pinstriping, a beautiful car with whitewalls and chrome, a grille that takes a day to make by hand, and a huge hood that flows out to the horizon where the Flying Lady stands. One nice thing about the long hood, incidentally, is that you can see where everything is, including front fenders and the nose of the car, marked by the Spirit of Ecstasy, that valuable silver hood ornament that has a separate theft alarm all her own.
Flanked by new headlights, the hood opens from the rear on counterbalanced hinges, revealing a revamped engine for 1994. The giant 6.7-liter V8 is hidden under a large black plastic shroud, which reminds you of the myth that Rolls once had a sealed engine compartment. The shroud does have an attractive aluminum opening, however, and that shiny grille is matched by the finned aluminum valve covers.
Rolls has always been coy about its horsepower ratings, noting simply that power "is sufficient." But the word is that the big V8 now produces something more than 250 horses, and it does it smoothly and with enough oomph to make the 5,440-pound car quicker than one would expect.
Rolls also has prided itself on the quiet of its cars, and the new Spur is no exception. For '94, the suspension has been stiffened, but the ride is still whisper soft, falling between a big European sedan and the mushy Detroit products of old. The General Motors transmission, too, has been tweaked to make its shifts all but imperceptible.
Inside, the car was just plain (read fancy) gorgeous, a symphony in black leather upholstery and burr walnut trim with lighter inlays of boxwood. Two-inch-thick lambs-wool rugs were there, too, just to drive home the point.
The seats, buckets in front and a bucket-molded bench in back, were outlined in red leather piping, and all were electrically adjustable, with a rare reclining feature for those in the rear.
Rolls also has finally added dual air bags up front, with the new passenger bag mounted behind a wood panel in the leather-topped dash. Below it is a large glovebox that hides switches for the trunk and the theft alarm.
Unfortunately, the button-bedeviled dash is not particularly well arranged, although the company says it has made improvements over previous models. The ignition key goes into a slot to the left of the leather-wrapped (excuse me, hide-wrapped) wheel, and the instruments consist of a 150-m.p.h. speedometer and gauges that show the status of temperature, fuel, volts and oil pressure.
There is, of course, full power equipment and a keyless entry system, a la General Motors. Also, like Cadillac, the new Rolls has a parking brake that releases when the column-mounted lever puts the car in gear, and there is an electrochromatic mirror that automatically keeps reflected high beams out of your eyes.
The most amazing thing, though, is the rear compartment, whose long legroom is complimented by soaring headroom, thanks to the rather square and formal roof line. A fold-down center armrest holds the standard cellular telephone and three remote controls, one each for the 10-speaker radio, the trunk-mounted compact-disk changer and the optional VCR.
The $4,000 video system displays its magic on two Sony screens mounted in the back of the front-seat headrests. The pictures are crisp, but I was only halfway watching when I pulled out my wallet on the way to the mall.
I discovered that I had $12, and I made what seemed an appropriate comment to my son. "Ah, humbug," I said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PIR (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (58%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (58%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (58%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (56%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (51%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: ROLLS-ROYCE MOTOR CARS LTD PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROLLS-ROYCE MOTOR CARS LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (56%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (51%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS CHRISTMAS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (51%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



589 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Russia's Reform Train Isn't Exactly an Express

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
THE installation last week of a new Russian Government, without Yegor T. Gaidar and possibly without his comrade-in-reform Boris G. Fyodorov, inspired no shortage of doom-laden predictions, including: hyperinflation, a cut in living standards, a fixed ruble, price and wage controls and a general collapse that would hand the country over to someone like Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky in the 1996 presidential elections, if not sooner.
Unfortunately, some of these prophecies are likely to prove true unless the Prime Minister, Victor S. Chernomyrdin, and the Central Bank chairman, Viktor V. Gerashchenko, are correct in their fervent belief that Russia is special and follows its own economic laws. 
 Mr. Gaidar, 37 years old, whose party did badly in December's elections, resigned because he had lost influence and didn't believe Mr. Chernomyrdin would fight inflation, now about 15 percent a month and rising.
Mr. Fyodorov, 35, the Finance Minister, said he did not expect to be part of the government after Mr. Gerashchenko, the chief dispenser of industrial subsidies, and a socialist in charge of agriculture weren't fired by Mr. Chernomyrdin, who wants slower reform and more state funds for factories and collective farms.
After the success of Communists and ultra-nationalists in the elections, Mr. Chernomyrdin, who chose not to run at all, became irreplaceable for President Yeltsin. He represents Russia's real power structure -- the bureaucrats, directors and party elite who still run the country -- and needs no confirmation by Parliament.
Arguably, the economic policies of the old Russian legislature that Mr. Yeltsin disbanded in September and shelled in October have now become the Chernomyrdin doctrine, which may not represent progress but does more accurately reflect the consensus of this huge nation disoriented by change.
In Washington, those who weren't engaged in a rather precipitate hunt for who lost Russia were worried that Moscow was on the march, rushing to re-unite the lost flock of the Soviet Union. Clinton Administration officials expressed concern about inflation but trust in Mr. Yeltsin's commitment to democratic and market reforms. So soon after Mr. Clinton's summit meeting here, what choice did they have? STEVEN ERLANGER

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yegor Gaidar; Boris Fyodorov (Associated Press(2))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GAIDAR, YEGOR; FYODOROV, BORIS G (MIN); ERLANGER, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



590 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Adam Smith Was No Gordon Gekko

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
TO most Americans who have even heard of him, the 18th-century Scottish philosopher Adam Smith is simply the patron saint of conservative economics, the face on ties worn by Reagan aides, the name on the door of a libertarian think tank.
But to a growing and politically diverse fraternity of economists, historians and philosophers, the popular image of Smith is little more than a caricature. To them he is the father of all economics, a brilliant observer of social institutions, the source of all current theories of how societies become prosperous. 
 "Smith has been misappropriated and misunderstood," said James Buchanan, a conservative economist and Nobel laureate at George Mason University. "He was certainly not an extreme advocate of laissez faire."
And at a time when hundreds of millions of people in former communist states are struggling to create viable economies, Smith admirers are urging more people to go back to the source.
Smith, a Scottish university professor, tutor to a duke and, finally, customs official, lived from 1723 to 1790. A leading figure in the Scottish enlightenment, his two major books, "The Theory of Moral Sentiments" and "An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations" are to democratic capitalism what Marx's "Das Kapital" was to socialism.
Smith's cynicism toward government and devotion to individual liberty made him a symbol of conservatism within a century of his death. But his fundamental insight was that charity alone, while essential, would not suffice to create prosperity. "It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we can expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest."
Smith's "invisible hand" is often misinterpreted as implying divine approval of greed. What Smith actually said is that self-interest, not charitable impulses, motivated butchers, brewers and bakers to feed society. Every individual, he concluded, is "led by an invisible hand to . . . without intending it, without knowing it, advance the interest of society."
"Smith didn't say greed is good," said Robert Nozick, a conservative philosopher at Harvard, echoing Gordon Gekko's motto in the film "Wall Street." "He thought that a free market economy was so structured that it led people pursuing their self-interest to end up serving the common good."
In his time, the philosopher was hardly a conservative. He thumbed his nose at church, university and empire, and inspired French revolutionaries, American suffragettes and Japanese political reformers. "My Adam Smith isn't the guy on the ties," said Paul Samuelson of M.I.T., the liberal economist and Nobel laureate, who has argued that Smith's scientific genius was underrated. "He was for trade unions, he believed in public works and he was very suspicious of businessmen."
Smith is also often thought of as being indifferent, even hostile, to the poor. On the contrary, he was not opposed, as a matter of principle, to redistributing income: He wanted to tax horse carriages so that "the indolence and vanity of the rich is made to contribute in a very easy manner to relief of the poor."
This champion of market forces is frequently misperceived as advocating no role for government. But Smith regarded national defense as a bigger priority than "national opulence" and supported public works.
In response to the new defenders of Smith's legacy, free-market advocates say they still prefer their emphasis on the conservative aspects of his thought. "We're trying to work out ways in which business can be conducted with less of a nanny state," said Dr. Eamonn Butler, director of the Adam Smith Institute in London. "What Adam Smith rails against is restraints on trade. That makes him extremely appropriate for us."
Though invoked as an authority by conservative governments around the world today, Smith in his own time was regarded with suspicion. Emma Rothschild, an economic historian at Cambridge University, reports that Scotland's leading newspaper devoted a mere dozen lines to Smith's obituary while allocating 65 lines to a "former quartermaster with an interest in barometers." She said British journalists were equally "disobliging," complaining that Smith tended to incite discussion of subjects that, as one obituary put it, "have become too popular in most countries of Europe."
The man himself is a far cry from the "simple Scottish professor" invoked by Victorian conservatives, said Ian S. Ross of the University of British Columbia and author of a forthcoming Smith biography. Smith adored Voltaire, was at ease in Parisian salons and preferred the latest novels and plays to Greek philosophers. And, though he was apparently homely and absent-minded, as the Victorians claimed, he was witty enough at dinner to cause a French countess to fall for him. Said Professor Rothschild, "All of us are just so fond of Smith, it's very nice to think he's being rescued."

GRAPHIC: Illustration: "Adam Smith"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; HISTORY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CONSERVATISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); MISAPPROPRIATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ADAM (1723-1790); NASAR, SYLVIA ADAM SMITH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



591 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Iran, the Sequel: New Actors, but the Same Lines

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WOVEN almost invisibly through the Iran-contra report on the Reagan Administration's arms-for-hostages trading and the cover-up that followed are reminders of the two fallacies that governed American dealings with the revolutionary regime in Teheran at the time.
The first fallacy: That there were good Iranian moderates eager to cooperate with the United States and worthy of its trust. The second: That the United States was somehow capable of playing them off against the bad radicals, in a way that would restore America's alliance with its one-time partner in the Persian Gulf. 
 The eight years since Robert C. McFarlane, then the national security adviser, arrived in Teheran bearing a cake in the shape of a key and a Bible signed by President Reagan have also shown that if there are constants in the Iran-America relationship, they are negative: Both countries deeply distrust each other, and they have national interests that are inimical.
Even after the Iran-contra debacle, there was a time of relative optimism, when it seemed as if Iran was headed on a new course that promised economic reform and better relations with the West. Its neutrality in the gulf war against Iraq and its help in winning the release of the last American hostages held in Lebanon even led the Bush Administration to briefly consider -- and then rule out -- tangible rewards for the regime.
But in the last two years, Iran has again become more difficult to deal with. President Hashemi Rafsanjani's campaign to control the bureaucracy, privatize the economy and promote economic development has failed. By contrast, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who succeeded Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini as spiritual leader, has asserted himself by meddling in the Sudan, supporting radical Palestinians in Lebanon, opposing the talks between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, and snuffing out any positive signals toward Washington.
"The reading of Rafsanjani as a pragmatist who wanted to re-engage Iran with the rest of the world was not wrong," said Shaul Bakhash, a historian who has written about Iran. "But the circumstances have changed. Iranian behavior has become more inconsistent, incoherent, more radical, its foreign policy more sensitive to what the regime believes is necessary to be an international leader. To an extent, it's a reversion to the early years of the revolution."
For the Clinton Administration, Iran's importance to America has diminished as well. American hostages are no longer held by Iranian-backed terrorists. The breakup of the Soviet Union ends concerns that Iran could move into Moscow's orbit.
On one level, the Clinton Administration's stated strategy toward Iran has been consistent: no intention of overthrowing the regime, no acceptance of preconditions for a dialogue, and no compromise on the American demand for change in Iranian behavior on issues like its quest for a nuclear weapon, and support for terrorism.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, branding Iran an "international outlaw," has led a campaign (unsuccessful so far) among America's allies to deprive Iran of equipment useful to its military. The Administration has also opposed international lending to Iran and the rescheduling of its debt. "Our efforts are aimed at pressuring Iran to change its behavior across the board, and, in the meantime, to contain its influence and constrain its troublemaking capabilities," Mr. Christopher said last week.
The Administration has also fine-tuned its approach since Martin S. Indyk, the National Security Council's Middle East specialist, articulated last May a strategy that treated Iran and Iraq as equally bad rogue regimes to be met with "dual containment." In July, before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Edward P. Djerejian, who was then an Assistant Secretary of State, declined to use that expression, saying there "are obvious distinctions" between the countries. The message was that no matter how badly the Iranian clerics behaved, they were simply not in the same league as Saddam Hussein.
 
Inconsistencies
 Neither the American nor the Iranian policies are completely consistent, however. Although the United States bans imports of Iranian goods, and has a strict ban on the export of weapons and militarily useful equipment, it allows American companies to sell Iran a wide range of things -- consumer goods, oil drilling and engineering equipment, chemicals and gas turbines.
In a triumph of commerce over politics, Iran has abandoned its revolutionary pledge to ban American goods and Iranians can now wear genuine Levis, drink Coca-Cola, drive Chryslers and smoke Winstons. The State Department says Iran bought $750 million in American goods in 1992, a 14-fold increase over 1989.
More important for Iran's economy, while American oil companies are forbidden to trade in Libyan oil, American oil companies are the largest purchasers of Iranian oil, buying it on the open market and selling it outside the United States. When officials are asked why, if Iran is truly an outlaw state, the United States does business with it at all, the reply is straightforward: If we don't trade, someone else will.
Despite Iran's current lust for things American, there is still deep-seated antagonism there toward icons of America. In downtown Teheran recently, an enterprising businessman took advantage of the absence of copyright laws, secured the proper approvals and slapped a pair of McDonald's golden arches on the front of his restaurant. Five thousand customers showed up the first day. Officials didn't like it. A few days later he was ordered to take the sign down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (92%); IRAN (88%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); SUDAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (92%); IRAN (88%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); SUDAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HISTORY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); DESERT STORM (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); RELIGION (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (67%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE RONALD REAGAN (79%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



592 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Living With North Korea's Bomb

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
IT has been 28 days since the world was informed that North Korea probably has developed one or two nuclear bombs. Yet Asia has not been engulfed by the war that once seemed imaginable the moment President Clinton received such news from the Central Intelligence Agency.
The Pentagon has not gone on alert. North Korea is not menacing its neighbors with nuclear threats. Japan and South Korea have not declared that they, too, will become nuclear powers. They seem vigilant, but calm. 
 The biggest thing going on in most Asian countries, North Korea excluded, is one of the most spectacular economic booms ever.
Who has time for war, many Asians ask.
Most analysts agree it would be too easy and wrong-headed to survey North Korea's nuclear threat and say, as many Asian businessmen have, 'So what?' But it may prove equally wrong-headed as national policy to imply, as the Clinton Administration has, that the moment North Korea gets the bomb, the next step is war or blockade or economic embargo (which could lead to war).
The most ardent American opponents of nuclear proliferation, while standing on the noblest of principles, may have inadvertently begun to scare many of the people they are seeking to save, because most Asian governments long ago thought through the consequences of war on the Korean Peninsula. They have considered the likely destruction of Seoul and the heavy loss of life; the wreckage of South Korea's $300 billion economy, the flood of refugees into China and the costs of reconstruction that Japan and others would be asked to pay.
Japan in particular is leery about the staggering cost of all wars and the ambiguous results of many. Having helped to finance the allies in the Persian Gulf war, the Japanese later observed with disbelief and some bitterness the $100 billion or more in devastation to the economies of Iraq and Kuwait. The human toll has never been finally tallied, and Saddam Hussein, while hobbled in his ambitions, remains in power.
A number of Asian leaders, conscious of Kim Il Sung's aggressive and unpredictable record, are no less nervous about a nuclear-armed North Korea than are the White House and State Department. But they have been asking whether the cost of a conventional war over North Korea's bomb-making program could easily be more costly than the damage wrought if one of the illicit bombs were used in a surprise attack. Of course, such an attack would certainly draw the massive retaliatory response that Mr. Clinton icily described last year while standing at the 38th Parallel armistice line: "It would be the end of their country."
 
Capable of What?
 Assuming North Korea could roll a crude bomb into South Korea on a freight car or jury-rigged on an aircraft, is this a military capability? Or is detonation simply an invitation to extinction, like a man holding a lightning rod in a thunderstorm who revels, at the instant of his incineration, in his ability to clutch the power of the heavens?
Harry Harding of The Brookings Institution in Washington recently observed that the Clinton Administration and its allies, who earlier had drawn a line in the sand over any North Korean nuclear capability, now seem more focused on preventing a "deployable capability" -- a bomb that could be fitted into the nose cone of a missile and exploded at the right moment on its target. This would require another big leap by North Korea.
Some Asian analysts are even thinking of anti-ballistic missile defenses, erected with American help, that would simply render North Korea's nuclear threat inert.
Part of the reason that countries like China, Japan and South Korea are not eager for a showdown is the belief that once Kim Il Sung dies -- he is 81 now -- North Korea may begin to moderate and evolve into a society more like the prosperous, stable and more politically tolerant success stories of Asia.
Thus, while reports that Pyongyang may now have nuclear arms are fervently unwished for, the crossing of this threshold may move the debate about American policy in Asia to a more practical question: If North Korea has the bomb, is there a way to live with this reality while seeking to change it through nonconfrontational means?
The Clinton Administration has not addressed this question in public. It is concentrating on counting up the ounces of missing plutonium that may help prove that Kim Il Sung has crossed the line Mr. Clinton said he must not be allowed to cross.
But as each day passes, the contradictions in American policy only seem to grow. A partial success this month, when North Korea agreed to reopen some of its nuclear facilities to inspection, may be unraveling. Pyongyang has refused to meet the demands of the International Atomic Energy Agency for access to atomic laboratories.
Any new deadlock could hoist American policy back to the precipice, and Mr. Clinton and his advisers will have to ask whether another year of brinkmanship is the right way to proceed. He may determine that short of war, pressure on North Korea simply does not work. And war may not be worth it.
After all, pressure did little to deter Pakistan and South Africa from acquiring the bomb in the 1980's. And, in South Africa, a hostile government evolved and eventually decided to dismantle its nuclear arsenal.
In 1964, when China exploded its first atomic bomb, it was regarded as dangerous and unpredictable, and had proven so by bloodying American forces in the Korean War. After that, the very allies Mr. Clinton is now concerned about, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, lived in the shadow of Soviet and Chinese nuclear threats for decades.
Their faith in the American nuclear umbrella has been the greatest overall factor for insuring their long-term disinterest in pursuing their own nuclear arsenals. If that faith is well placed, then Mr. Clinton's options may be broader than he thinks, and could include a fuller diplomatic engagement of North Korea, like the one he is trying with China -- so far, all to the good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REFUGEES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



593 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: CRIME IS BECOMING NATION'S TOP FEAR

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
Crime now rivals the economy in the eyes of Americans as the single most important problem facing the country, but they are divided over whether Republicans or Democrats are best able to do something about it, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
The sharp rise in concern about crime helps assure that it will be a front-line issue in this election year. But there is also a widespread sense that the country is powerless to deal with it, with most Americans saying they do not expect violence to decline significantly in the next few years. 
 The poll also found that many Americans seemed to question President Clinton's assertion that the health care system was in such a state of crisis that he must begin working on it before coming forward with his welfare reform plan. Asked which issue the Government should concentrate on first, 43 percent chose health care and 49 percent welfare reform.
 
Filling a Vacuum
 While people put the economy at the top of the agenda for years, anxieties about the economy have diminished in recent months, and crime has filled the vacuum. Asked to cite the single biggest problem facing the nation, 19 percent said crime or violence, with an additional 2 percent saying guns. Fifteen percent cited health care.
Among economic issues, 14 percent said the state of the economy concerned them most, and 12 percent unemployment or jobs.
The next most cited issue, at 5 percent, was the deficit, a major issue in the 1992 campaign. An issue that was once a dominant concern, drug abuse, was cited by 3 percent.
The telephone poll of 1,146 adults nationwide underscores why the political parties are battling so intensely to claim the crime issue as their own: Republicans may have lost the edge as the party seen as best poised to preserve law and order, leaving the potent political issue up for grabs.
Thirty-one percent said the Democrats had an advantage in dealing with crime, while a group of identical size cited the Republicans. The poll, conducted Jan. 15 to 17, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
The failure of either party to make itself the clear law-and-order champion helps explain why fighting crime was emphasized last week in speeches at the winter meeting of the Republican National Committee in Washington. Acknowledging the Democrats' inroads, Bob Dole, the Senate Republican leader, said yesterday that Mr. Clinton had "a big advantage" in the public relations battle over crime. "They go out in the Rose Garden and it's on the nightly news, in all the papers," he said.
Indeed, Mr. Clinton is expected to make crime a theme of his State of the Union Message on Tuesday, arguing for the crime bill that has passed the Senate but awaits House action.
 
Concern Over Economy
 The proportion of Americans who mention economic issues as the single most important ones before the nation is only about half the 54 percent who cited them in January 1992. Over the same period, the combined number of people who cited crime, violence or guns as the top problems has risen from 2 percent to 20 percent. The 15 percent who now cite health care also represent a major increase, from 3 percent two years ago.
Americans have clear beliefs about which party is better able to handle health care and economic matters.
Fifty-nine percent said the Democrats were more likely to improve the health care system, and only 20 percent said the Republicans. On economic questions, Americans expressed the view that the Democrats were better able to handle unemployment, while the Republicans were more likely to make sure the country is prosperous.
On another issue, 61 percent of the people surveyed said they would be willing to pay higher taxes to provide job training and public service jobs to help people get off welfare. Despite this apparent willingness to support such programs, many Americans still hold negative images of welfare recipients. Sixty-three percent said most welfare recipients did not want to work, and 48 percent said most people collecting welfare could get along without it if they tried, a finding that has remained steady for 18 years.
People were divided over the wisdom of forcing a woman with young children on welfare to work; 45 percent said she should be required to work, while 40 percent said she should be able to stay at home and take care of her children.
The lack of faith that one party would be better than the other at handling crime may reflect a general feeling among Americans that the problem has become intractable.
While people expect both the economy and health care to improve in the next few years, they hold out no such hope about crime. Sixty-seven percent said they expected the national economy to be in good condition by the end of Mr. Clinton's term in three years, while 66 percent said they expected significantly more Americans to be covered by health insurance. But only 29 percent said they expected crime to be reduced by then.
 
Contradictions on Crime
 The frustration about violence could be based on unfounded fears. Despite studies showing that crime had generally held steady in the past year, 73 percent said crime had increased in the country, and 58 percent said crime had risen in their own communities.
Yet there has been no appreciable increase in the last 20 years in the degree to which people say they fear walking at night within a mile of their homes. The proportion who are frightened is now 42 percent. Fifteen percent of the respondents said they or a family member had been a victim of crime in the past year, only slightly more than the 12 percent who reported such victimization in 1987, when The Times and CBS News last asked the question.
Still, 39 percent said they had done something special in the last year or so to protect themselves or their family against crime. The most mentioned step, taken by 7 percent of adults, was installing a house alarm, while 5 percent said they had bought a gun or now carried one. Other steps included getting a dog, carrying tear gas and being more aware on the street.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Americans and Crime"
 
MOST SAY THEY THINK CRIME HAS INCREASED OVER THE PAST YEAR . . .
 
Crime in the country has . . .
 Increased -- 73%
 Decreased -- 3%
 Stayed the same -- 23%
 
Crime in your community has . . .
 Increased -- 58%
 Decreased -- 36%
 Stayed the same -- 5%
 
. . . BUT DO NOT FEEL MORE FEARFUL IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS (Graph tracks the percentage of people answering the following question in the affirmative, since 1965: Is there any area right around your home -- that is, within a mile -- where you would be afraid to wald alone at night?)
 
OPINIONS ARE SPLIT ON GUN CONTROL . . .
 
Would you favor or oppose a ban on the sale of all handguns except those issued to law enforcement officers?
 Favor -- 46%
 Oppose -- 50%
 
. . . EVEN THOUGH MOST DOUBT SUCH LAWS WILL REDUCE CRIME
 
Do you think gun control laws do or do not reduce violent crime?
 Do -- 34%
 Do not -- 62%
 
The New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on nationwide telephone interviews with 1,146 adults conducted Jan. 15-17. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3 percentage points. Earlier polls were conducted by The Gallup Organization. Those with no opinion are not shown. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; ELECTION ISSUES US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LEGISLATION (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



594 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate Market Rebounds in New York Region

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
After five years of slumping sales and plummeting prices, the residential real estate market in the New York region is starting to rebound, according to housing analysts.
Though the recovery is not as robust as in other parts of the country, like the Southeast and the Rocky Mountain states, the precipitous slide that saw home values in the region plunge by double-digit rates in the late 1980's and early 1990's appears to be ending. 
 Prices in most parts of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut were generally flat in 1993, but that included a depressed first quarter.
 
Gaining Momentum
 The turnaround, however, was clearly apparent in the growth of home sales last year and the decline in the numbers of homes on the market. In Westchester County, for example, sales rose for the second year in a row in 1993, by 9.3 percent, and the number of homes offered for sale last year dropped by 600, or by 7 percent.
Real estate brokers attributed the increase in home sales to a number of factors, including lower interest rates, eager first-time buyers, and an economy that most analysts believe is slowly gaining momentum.
"We are just starting to see some pick-up, mostly because of the favorable interest rates" said Amos Ilan, an economist with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. "As long as you have favorable interest rates, that will continue."
Housing analysts cautioned that although sales, and in some places prices, are rising, buyers and sellers should not expect the real estate market in the tri-state region to bounce back to prerecession highs anytime soon.
Even so, there were signs of vigor in some sectors of the market. Prices for all homes in Fairfield County, Conn., for example, rose by 5 percent, to $204,750 from $195,000, while sales increased by 7 percent, according to The Commercial Record, a real estate newspaper in South Windsor, Conn.
Elsewhere, condominiums in Manhattan rose an average of 9.3 percent in sales price in 1993, to $335,788 from $307,080 the year before, while the number sold increased by 20.7 percent, according to Yale Robbins Inc., a real estate research company in Manhattan.
 
Condos vs. Co-ops
 Condos have become popular in Manhattan among foreign buyers and investors, who find them easier to buy, sell and rent than apartments in restrictive co-op buildings, many of which are also burdened by high maintenance costs and are often viewed as less financially stable, carrying with them the burden of separate underlying mortgages.
Perhaps because of these drawbacks, the co-op market continues to lag. A study by Douglas Elliman, a Manhattan real estate brokerage, found that co-op prices in Manhattan fell 3.1 percent in 1993, to $95,788 per room, from $98,820 per room, continuing a slide of more than 25 percent since 1989.
Brokers said that many co-op buildings in New York still have a large number of unsold apartments that are owned by the buildings' sponsors. A glut of smaller units in less-than-prime neighborhoods, in many cases co-ops converted in the market's heyday of the early and mid-1980's, have also pushed overall prices down.
"There is an oversupply of studios and one-bedrooms," said Alan Rogers, managing director of Douglas Elliman, who added that prices tended to rise slightly -- or showed smaller declines -- for larger apartments, like those with four or more bedrooms, or those in more established areas, like the Upper West Side.
Prices also drifted downward for co-ops and condominiums in the suburbs and for all types of housing in areas hit hard by job losses and population declines, particularly parts of Connecticut, the lower Hudson Valley and Long Island.
 
Connecticut's Picture
 In Connecticut, for example, sale prices statewide fell 0.4 percent to $134,500 from $135,000 while the state's overall population fell 0.1 percent, or by about 2,000 people.
"The rest of the state would look a lot worse if it wasn't for Fairfield County," said Vincent M. Valvo, editor of The Commercial Record.
For the first 10 months of 1993, home prices fell significantly in Hartford County, by 4 percent, to $125,800 from $131,000, and in New Haven County, by 2.4 percent, to $122,000 from $125,000, in large part because of layoffs at insurance companies and defense contractors.
Even in most of the depressed areas, however, sales increased last year. In Hartford County, for example, they rose 3.4 percent and in New Haven County by 1.9 percent.
The phenomenon of decreasing prices but increasing sales occurred throughout the region last year and may set the stage for higher prices in the future, housing analysts say.
While sale prices decreased for Manhattan co-ops, the number sold increased by 1.3 percent. In northern New Jersey, home prices fell 0.1 percent, to $184,300 from $185,700, but sales rose 1.3 percent. The median price of a single-family home sold in New York City declined by 1.8 percent to $162,000 from $165,000, based on figures as of June 30 of last year and compiled by the city's Office of Tax Policy. The number of sales in the city, though, increased by 7 percent.
 
Westchester Sales Up
 In other areas, prices declined by 2.7 percent, to $240,000 from $246,600, in Westchester County, but the number of sales there rose by more than 9 percent.
"We saw multiple offers for the first time in a long time," said Savo Fries, president of the Westchester Multiple Listing Service. "These were from buyers who wanted to nail down a good price before interest rates changed."
Though interest rates have risen since last fall, they are still substantially lower than in the 1980's. The average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage today carries an interest rate of 7.16 percent, and adjustable-rate mortgages, with a two-point annual cap and a six-point lifetime cap, average 4.31 percent, according to HSH Associates, a mortgage information firm in Butler, N.J.
The drop in rates means that a home buyer taking out a $150,000, 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage would now pay $1,014.12 a month compared with $1,434.16 a month in 1986, when the average rate was 11.05 percent. The current first-year monthly payment on the average adjustable-rate mortgage would be $743.19.
The decline in rates helped encourage Kathy Salerno to sell her $160,000 Cape Cod-style home in Woodhurst, N.J., and buy a $380,000 split-level with an in-ground pool in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., in December.
"Because of the economy, we could pick and choose what we wanted," said Ms. Salerno, a human resources director for NYNEX in White Plains. "This was the perfect time for us to buy a home. For investment purposes, the market can only go up -- it can't go down."
Alan Yassky, a real estate broker in Spring Valley, N.Y., and past president of the New York chapter of the National Association of Realtors, said that home prices in 1993 would have been higher in many areas had it not been for an unusually bad first quarter.
"The market not only appears to be stabilizing, but it is becoming rather healthy," he said.
Apart from sales and prices, another measure of the vibrancy of the real estate market is new construction. In Northern New Jersey, for example, the number of housing units authorized by the state rose 20 percent last year over 1992, according to the New Jersey Department of Labor.
 
Some New Projects
 Even in areas where real estate prices continue to lag, developers have begun new projects. In Milford, Conn., near New Haven, Baker Firestone of Pleasantville, N.Y., is building 261 single-family homes ranging in price from $149,000 to $200,000. So far, 31 have been sold and a dozen are under construction.
"Last year was our best in 27 years," said Christopher T. Baker, manager of Baker Firestone, which built 536 homes between New Jersey and Massachusetts in 1993, compared with 86 in 1992. "Value is the key."
"Interest rates are holding steady, as are prices, and people are starting to realize that we are at the bottom of a market, and things are coming back," he said. "People want to buy because they are afraid interest rates -- or prices -- could change, and they could be priced out of the market again."
Home construction levels, however, remain far below the figures of the mid-1980's, particularly in New York, where new building fell 3 percent in 1993.
Moreover, the value of all new residential construction in the 17-county New York region, $2.3 billion, was about the same in 1993 as it was in 1992, according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Mr. Ilan, the agency economist, added, however, that the figure had declined in every previous year since 1986. "We could be turning the corner in '94," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "REAL ESTATE: Housing Sales Rise as Price Patterns Vary" tracks median prices and sales volume for all types of housing, including single-family homes, co-ops and condominiums for Long Island, Westchester County, Fairfield County and Northern New Jersey. The graph representing Manhattan reflects data on condominiums only. (Source: New Jersey Association of Realtors) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%); YALE-ROBBINS INC (63%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES; MORTGAGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY REAL ESTATE (97%); HOUSING MARKET (93%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



595 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-12
 
BOSNIA UNDERDOGS GAINING
The Bosnian Army has improved its organization and strength, and the United Nations and diplomats are no longer seeing the mostly Muslim Government as an underdog. 1
 
Shells killed six children playing in a Sarajevo suburb. 8 

he U.S. played down French appeals for Bosnia air strikes. 8
 
NO BREAKTHROUGH IN P.L.O. TALKS
Israeli and P.L.O. leaders came together to mourn a mediator, but they ended talks without resolving their differences about self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. 12
 
DEBATE OVER ARAFAT'S LEADERSHIP
A Gaza surgeon who led the Palestinians at the Middle East peace talks is leading a group of Palestinians who are challenging Yasir Arafat's leadership and are concerned about the future of their movement. 12
 
U.S. SHIFTING CHINA POLICY
The United States has shifted its China policy recently to focus more on increased contacts to improve human rights and less on threats of trade sanctions. 10
 
U.S. MESSAGE FOR JAPAN
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen arrived in Japan prepared to say that politics would be no excuse for avoiding trade concessions, but Japanese leaders were busy trying to save the Government. 10
 
The U.S. will increase aid for birth control to developing countries. 9
 
The United Nations will create a unified program to fight AIDS. 6
 
Mexican rebels are leery of Government promises. 3
 
National 14-20
 
CONGRESS TO FACE HEALTH BILL
The House and the Senate return Tuesday expecting to be judged on how they deal with health care, the biggest domestic issue Congress has confronted in three decades. 1
 
CRIME AMONG HIGHEST CONCERNS
A new poll shows that crime now rivals the economy as the single most important national problem but that Americans are divided over which party is best able to do something about it. 1
 
NATURE'S ECONOMIC IMPACT
The California earthquake and Arctic cold in the East may slow economic growth this quarter, economists say, but may give the economy a boost in the long term. 1
 
TENT LIFE IN LOS ANGELES
Hundreds of green canvas tents went up in parks around Los Angeles as thousands of earthquake refugees began a new routine, cooking breakfast on campfires and combing their hair in their car mirrors. 18
 
A FAMILY COPES WITH THE QUAKE
One Los Angeles family copes with life after the earthquake, and finds inconveniences like cracked walls and new routines like cooking on a camp stove, and washing with bottled water. 18
 
TUBERCULOSIS IN THE WORKPLACE
Federal health officials, alarmed by the growing number of tuberculosis cases contracted on the job, are increasingly treating the disease as a work problem. 1
 
A SOPHISTICATED DUMMY
A crash-test dummy of a pregnant woman represents a new era of precision in auto safety research. Tests can now focus on injuries that were hardly studied previously. 1
 
NAVIGATING TWO WORLDS
Many Asian-American women express reluctance about taking on the traditional roles expected by their parents and guilt over rejecting them, as they are pulled by the sense of independence American society offers. 14
 
REPUBLICANS GO ON OFFENSIVE
As the election year opens, Republican leaders put President Clinton on notice that they are ready to fight on nearly every major issue on his agenda, from crime to health care to welfare. 14
 
Metro 21-32
 
HOUSING MARKET REBOUNDS
After five years of slumping sales and prices, the residential real estate market in the New York region is starting to rebound, according to housing analysts. Home sales grew last year and the number of homes offered for sale declined. 1
 
PROGRESS ON CAR THEFTS
Motor vehicle theft is a constant irritant in New York City, costing owners an average of $360 a year in added insurance fees. Last year, an estimated 112,000 motor vehicles were stolen, and 90 percent of the cases went unsolved. But police officials report some hopeful signs. 21
 
JACKSON SCORNS COLLEGE SPEECH
The Rev. Jesse Jackson has condemned as "racist, anti-Semitic, divisive, untrue and chilling" a speech that a Nation of Islam aide made at Kean College in Union, N.J., two months ago. He called on Louis Farrahkan, Nation of Islam leader, to respond to the remarks. 21
 
ANOTHER SPOTLIGHT FOR SHARPTON
It is too soon to know whether Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani will succeed in isolating the Rev. Al Sharpton and removing him from the center of the city's intense and often bitter racial politics. But Mr. Giuliani's snub clearly energized Mr. Sharpton and brought him a new platform. 23
 
THE ICEBOATING LIFE
While everyone else plots ways to stay indoors and turn up the heat, iceboaters think up excuses to get out on the ice with the wind scraping their faces like rusty razors. But the weather in New Jersey this week was too much even for them. 21
 
DISPUTE COSTS AIDS MONEY
Because of a dispute between health officials and AIDS groups, New York City still uses a procedure that underestimates AIDS cases and thus has cost the city at least $8 million in Federal money, the city's Health Commissioner says. 23
 
Neediest Cases 22
 
Obituaries 30
 
Jean-Louis Barrault, French actor and director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); POLITICS (71%); TUBERCULOSIS (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (60%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



596 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS IS FACING HEALTH CARE BILL AND FULL AGENDA

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
The House and the Senate come back to work on Tuesday expecting to be judged on how they deal with health care, the biggest domestic issue Congress has confronted in three decades.
It may even prove to be the most complicated task that Congress has ever faced, involving far more crosscurrents than the civil rights bills of the 1960's or the economic measures of the New Deal. And before the issue actually comes to the floor in either House, it must make its way past scores of conflicting interest groups like the elderly, the hospitals and the various factions of the insurance industry, and through five major Congressional committees. 
 Otherwise, the second session of the 103d Congress faces a daunting agenda that might claim a place in history on its own. But this year the other issues are likely to remain in health care's shadow.
 
A Full Plate
 Congressional leaders and President Clinton have promised to try to pass major "reforms" in the way the Federal Government deals with welfare, crime, banking, telecommunications, foreign aid, job training and Federal aid to education.
With the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll showing that only 30 percent of the public approves of how Congress is doing its job, its leaders hope to dim those doubts with legislation on campaign financing, some reorganization of the way Congress does its own business and perhaps still more trimming of the Federal budget.
But after last year's budget bill froze the total that can be spent on all programs requiring annual appropriations, this summer's reruns of the annual spending battles will be even more intense than usual.
 
All Eyes on November
 The first spending dispute of the year will come soon. Republicans, according to Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, will demand that earthquake relief for California be offset by spending reductions elsewhere. Thomas S. Foley, the Speaker of the House, said Democrats would argue that it should be considered an "emergency," outside the regular pay-as-you-go rules for the budget.
Then in late February, the Senate is likely to go into an extended battle over a proposed constitutional amendment requiring a balanced Federal budget. If the measure receives the necessary two-thirds vote, the House will consider it next.
As in every other even-numbered year, Congress will be legislating with elections in mind, bringing more grandstanding amendments and more time off for "district work periods" and other opportunities to campaign and raise money. All 435 House seats and 34 of the 100 spots in the Senate will be up, and for most members, Election Day on Nov. 8 is the most important day of the year. Republicans, who now have 175 representatives and 44 senators, expect modest gains in each house.
An increasingly partisan tone can be expected as Election Day nears, but Republicans are wary of letting Democrats mask their own divisions with accusations of Republican obstructionism. "We don't have any gridlock plan," Mr. Dole said.
It seems unlikely that last year's absolute partisanship on budget votes, when no Republicans voted with Mr. Clinton, will be repeated.
But how much collaboration there will be, especially on health care, is an open question. In the more partisan House, it seems unlikely that more than a handful of Republican votes can be found for any plan resembling Mr. Clinton's, with its requirements that employers pay for most of their workers' health insurance and that each state set up insurance purchasing cooperatives to negotiate with insurance companies.
Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the deputy Republican leader, said that if Mr. Clinton was willing to compromise and work for "a health solution that is in the center and involves personal responsibility more than bureaucracy" he might obtain significant Republican backing. But that could cost Mr. Clinton many of the 93 House Democrats who already prefer a program to the left of his, the "single payer" scheme that would have the Government and not the insurance companies pay the bills.
House Democrats are ready to try to get the needed 218 votes just from their own ranks if they have to. Their success will be tested first in March or April in the Energy and Commerce Committee, headed by Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, which will act first on the bill.
But that approach has no applicability in the Senate, where at least a bit of bipartisanship is required to pass almost anything. It takes 60 votes to break a filibuster that blocks action, and there are only 56 Democrats.
 
Searching for Compromise
 Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, has said hopefully that health will be a "high risk" issue to filibuster. But he and other Senate Democrats like Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York are searching for health care compromises that can bring a dozen or more Republicans along. So far they have just one, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont.
Mr. Foley said health care's prospects might depend on what lawmakers heard in their districts, "whether members come back with a sense of urgency." He predicted that lawmakers would spend more time than usual listening to each other when they return this week.
Mr. Dole said Senate Republicans would be talking to each other, too, trying to arrive at some common stance. They now have four differing bills they support, and Mr. Dole said, "If we can't come together on some common package, we may find ourselves sitting in the bleachers somewhere."
There is no solid timetable for health care. Mr. Moynihan plans to hold hearings in the Senate Finance Committee through April. Mr. Kennedy's Labor and Human Resources Committee is ready to vote any time but will probably wait while he tries to line up Republican support.
 
Committee as Microcosm
 In the House, Mr. Dingell is likely to force the first votes, having given his subcommittees until March 4 to finish their work so the full committee can take up the bill. The Michigan Democrat learned the gospel of health care from his father, an earlier Representative John D. Dingell, who in 1943 joined in introducing the first national health care bill.
The veteran chairman's committee, with 27 Democrats -- including several nervous freshmen and a few moderates -- along with 17 Republicans, is fairly representative of the House itself. Thus, a victory there would be a bigger boost for Mr. Clinton than success in the more heavily partisan Democratic ranks of the Ways and Means or Education and Labor Committees, which will also deal with the bill.
While most Congressional leaders expect major health care legislation to be passed, none will offer a road map to enactment. And some worry that Congress will fail to agree on any bill at all, as the public expects. A Times/CBS News Poll of 1,146 adults, conducted by telephone from Jan. 15 through 17, showed that 56 percent of the public expected failure and only 39 percent predicted success. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points.
If "by some unfortunate fact, we do not pass it," Mr. Dingell said, then Democrats should be ready to try to turn the 1994 election into a referendum on the health care issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); HOSPITALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); INSURANCE LAW (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); INSURANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); WELFARE FRAUD (67%); DISASTER RELIEF (67%); REFERENDUMS (65%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



597 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE;
Quake and Freeze May Interrupt Economy's Growth in Short Term

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
The California earthquake and the Arctic cold in the East together may shear as much as half a percentage point or more from economic growth this quarter, some economists say, but later this year they may actually give the economy a boost.
While the earthquake and the freeze are expected to slow growth this winter as transportation is disrupted, factories are shut and consumers huddle at home, by the spring and summer, growth should increase as people spend to replace objects that were destroyed and rebuild from the earthquake.
 
Sophisticated Guesses
 Indeed, some economists say that by the end of 1994, the country's employment and Gross Domestic Product are likely to be slightly higher than they would have been without nature's intervention. 
 Although the estimates of damage from the earthquake in Los Angeles are still little more than sophisticated guesses, the growing sense among business executives, government officials and economists is that the impact will be larger than that of the San Francisco earthquake in 1989, which resulted in about $6 billion in damage. The devastation could fall between that of the flood in the Midwest last year ($12 billion) and that of Hurricane Andrew in 1992 ($30 billion), they say.
"This is larger than San Francisco," said Wesley Ooms, an assistant vice president for State Farm Insurance. "I don't think it's more than Andrew."
Forecasters at DRI/McGraw Hill, a research company in Lexington, Mass., are among those who this week scaled back their estimates of growth in the first quarter because of the quake and the cold, and raised their estimates for the second quarter. DRI reduced its first-quarter estimate to an annual rate of 2.5 percent, from 3.2 percent, because it expects weaker retail sales, less production and fewer new jobs. DRI has cut its forecast of job growth in January by 40,000 jobs, to 150,000, from 190,000.
The impact of the cold wave, though less visible than that of the earthquake, has also been pronounced. "When day after day cities are setting new records for cold by a substantial margin, it's an incredible event," Mr. Ooms said.
In most of the frozen Northeast, more people have been killed than in the quake, large companies have closed because of power shortages and ice and snow have slowed freight and travelers, and kept shoppers away from malls. Home building has come to a standstill.
How much the icy weather will affect quarterly growth depends on how long it lasts. So far, the damage is being done in January and, by the time the quarter is over, lost production and sales may be recouped. The freeze is forcing homeowners to add to the economy's growth by buying more heating fuel and paying for plumbers and new pipes, sometimes with insurance checks.
"The cold doesn't get us headlines, but we pay out a lot of money" Mr. Ooms said. "It's the frozen pipes; we call it the silent catastrophe." He added that insurers might pay as much for this cold snap as they did for Hurricane Hugo in 1989, nearly $5 billion.
 
'A Positive for G.D.P.'
 While natural disasters are not good for the economy, they can temporarily lift growth after the initial disruption. "Floods, hurricanes and earthquakes are very bad for people, but they tend to raise the G.D.P.," said Alan Blinder, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. "Generally you see a small dip in the G.D.P. in the short run, then a bigger rebound. This has to be a positive for G.D.P. this year."
"By no stretch of the imagination is California better off because of the earthquake," he added. "If you lost a $100,000 home, and, as a result, worked harder and earned $10,000 more next year, G.D.P., which is a measure of production, is ahead. But you're not ahead."
The impact of the quake will be felt for years, mostly, of course, in California, which has been stuck in a deep recession for more than three years.
The quake has disrupted the Los Angeles economy -- closing its biggest shopping malls, snarling traffic and keeping thousands too preoccupied to go to work, much less go shopping -- and is likely to knock down tourism, which had started to show signs of life this summer. Widespread damage to highways has created havoc for truckers and turned some commutes into four-hour travails. That could depress productivity for years and also prompt more businesses and workers to move out.
But while the quake might postpone a sluggish economic recovery in California for a few months, economists said, it is not likely to prevent it from happening.
One reason, of course, is that the Clinton Administration, with an eye on the 1996 election and California's 54 electoral votes, is likely to pull out all the stops to help the State.
"This will be the President's excuse for a California aid package," said David Schulman, chief equity strategist for Salomon Brothers. The President has already pledged $45 million in emergency highway funds and more.
Even if Washington were not inclined to be more generous than usual, economists said, the net effect on California's G.D.P. and employment -- if not on its quality of life and business environment -- later in the year was apt to be positive.
 
No 'Wrecking Ball' Seen
 "We see a very gradual recovery by mid-summer," said Larry Kimbell, director of the University of California at Los Angeles's Business Forecasting Project. "I don't see a wrecking ball that knocks us back into recession," added Jack Kyser, chief economist of the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles County. "Basically, you have a hiccup on the road to recovery for Los Angeles. You'll get a recovery in 1995."
After looking at the construction boom that followed Hurricane Andrew, Mr. Kimbell said as many as 10,000 jobs could be created in the Los Angeles area.
"We've got four or five emergency contracts now," said John Cash, chief financial officer of the Kasler Holding Corporation, a heavy construction company. "People are clamoring for solutions. Theoretically, the money's available. Now the state just has to figure out how to make it happen."


GRAPHIC: Damage from the Northridge earthquake could reach $30 billion. Here are some other U.S diasters and their cost, adjusted for inflation.
 
1993 -- Midwest flooding, $12 billion.
 
1992 -- Hurricane Andrew, $30 billion.
 
1991 -- Oakland, Calif., fire, $1.5 billion.
 
1989 -- Hurricane Hugo, $5.9 billion (U.S.).
 
1989 -- San Francisco Bay Area earthquake, $5.9 billion.
 
1986 -- Southeastern states drought, $3 billion.
 
1972 -- Tropical Storm Agnes, $4.7 billion.
 
1906 -- San Francisco earthquake, $5.1 billion.
 
1871 -- Chicago fire, $1.5 billion.
 
Source: Associated Press (pg. 19)
Chart: "The Biggest Disasters"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (67%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); EARTHQUAKES; WEATHER EARTHQUAKES (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); POWER FAILURES (71%); HURRICANES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



598 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Consolidated Edison Urged To Freeze Electrical Rates

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
Consolidated Edison, which has been pursuing a 2 percent rate increase for several months, should instead freeze its electricity rates for at least one year, the New York State Attorney General, G. Oliver Koppell, urged yesterday. He asserted that savings from lower interest rates and operation costs should be transferred to customers.
The increase requested by Con Ed, if approved by the State Public Service Commission, would add a little over $1 to an average customer's monthly bill beginning in April. A typical residential customer, using 300 kilowatt hours a month, pays about $50. 
 In 1992 Con Ed and the commission agreed on a three-year plan to raise rates, which have climbed by about 5 percent in each of the last two years. But appearing at City Hall in lower Manhattan yesterday with members of the State Consumer Protection Board, Mr. Koppell said changing circumstances now made the plan unfair to customers.
 
Helped by Interest Rates
 Mr. Koppell said that the plan was drawn with 1992 interest rates in mind and that the utility was now benefiting from lower borrowing costs. "They've fired people and reduced costs, and that should also be looked at," he said.
The Attorney General backed his petition by pointing to the Long Island Lighting Company, which announced last month that it would freeze rates for 1995 and 1996, citing lower interest rates and oil costs, as well as more purchases of cheaper power from sources outside Long Island. For 1994 Lilco customers saw a 4 percent rate increase, which is expected to bring the utility $85 million. Earlier this month Mr. Koppell called on Lilco to cut its rates, instead of merely freezing them.
Con Ed officials said they based their request for a 2 percent increase on improvements to equipment, rising operation expenses and slightly more expensive power that it must buy from independent producers. "We believe it's modest and reasonable," said Bruce Wittmer, a spokesman for the company. "It brings the average residential bill to what it was 10 years ago."
The utility's rates did not change from 1983 to 1987, when they were cut by 3.1 percent. In 1992 rates rose 4.5 percent. Last year, after the utility had requested a 6.5 percent raise, the commission approved a 5 percent increase.
Con Ed, whose rates are among the highest in the country, has 2.9 million electricity customers in New York City and Westchester County.
 
Underground Equipment
 Mr. Wittmer said Con Ed had already won preliminary approval from the commission for the third of its three increases over three years. If approved, the 2 percent increase is expected to amount to $90 million. The commission typically makes rulings in March, and the increase, if approved, would go into effect on April 1.
"Most of our equipment is underground, which makes it very costly, and as it gets older, it must be replaced," Mr. Wittmer said. He said that the utility had not dismissed any of its employees but that retirements and attrition had reduced the work force considerably over the last five years.
Although those opposing the increase did not dispute the extra costs that Con Ed has incurred recently, they said the costs were offset by today's lower interest rates and shrunken payroll. Richard M. Kessel, executive director of the State Consumer Protection Board, pointed out the utility had 17,588 employees in November, down from 18,933 in September 1992.
 
11.6 Percent Profits
 The board, which by law represents consumer interests before the Public Service Commission, has said consistently that three-year rate agreements are harmful to customers' interests.
Mr. Kessel said the commission now allowed Con Ed to earn profits of 11.6 percent. He and the Attorney General have asked the commission to reduce Con Ed's return on equity to 10 percent, in part to meet a goal of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
"The Governor has instructed me to try to get rates frozen in the 1990's," Mr. Kessel said. "Stable rates are critical for the region's economy, particularly in an era when we're trying to bring back the region from a prolonged recession. To attract new jobs we must get Con Ed's rates, which are among the highest in the nation, to be stable."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NY INC CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RATES UTILITY RATES (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); APPROVALS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU; KOPPELL, G OLIVER (ATTY GEN)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



599 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: NEW CANADA CHIEF WINNING APPLAUSE

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Short on panache and vision, long on prudence and street smarts, Jean Chretien has enjoyed an unusual honeymoon with Canadian voters.
Since his Liberals won a commanding majority in the House of Commmons three months ago, the country's 20th Prime Minister has increased his approval rating not by deferring tough decisions but by making a series of them politically palatable. 
 "He has scarcely put a foot wrong politically," said Norman Hillmer, a professor of history at Carleton University in Ottawa, "and the tone has been one of integrity and real care with resources."
Mr. Chretien's approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement, without heavy criticism even though it is still opposed by a majority of Canadians, is illustrative.
He had said he would sign on only with major concessions from the United States. Although concessions were not forthcoming, he declared victory anyway and now, like the Conservatives he used to criticize, vows to seek better trade opportunities abroad.
 
His Low-Key Approach
 Helping Mr. Chretien sell even retreaded policies has been a low-key, businesslike approach to governing, in contrast to the more imperial style of two of his predecessors, Brian Mulroney and Pierre Elliott Trudeau.
The Prime Minister's decision to cut some of the perks of office has also made him far more friends than enemies. No more free shoe shines or subsidized haircuts for members of Parliament. Members are even losing their $400 annual allowance for framing pictures. Gone is the armor-plated Cadillac limousine for the Prime Minister, who now rides in a Chevrolet Caprice.
"The optics play really well," said Mary Taber, political columnist for The Ottawa Citizen. "My father, who voted for the Reform Party, has been quite impressed. These are things people can relate to."
Mr. Chretien has managed to take other politically risky decisions without harming himself. He canceled a $3.75 billion helicopter contract that meant job losses in places like Montreal and Winnipeg. He scrapped the previous Government's plan to privatize Pearson International Airport at Toronto, the country's largest.
 
Street-Wise Politician
 Analysts credit his street-wise political instincts. Mr. Chretien, who likes to call himself "the little guy from Shawinigan," in Quebec, has been in public life for the last 30 years.
"While Mr. Chretien, like former U.S. President Ronald Reagan, may lack the finely nuanced grasp of policy matters," said Edward Greenspon, the Ottawa bureau chief of The Globe and Mail, "he possesses the best-tuned political antenna in the business. He plays politics by ear and is blessed with near-perfect pitch."
Yet the pitch sometimes errs, as in the appointment of a minister, David Anderson, who was suing the Government over the loss of patronage perks. As soon as the opposition and the press learned of the suit, Mr. Chretien made sure that either Mr. Anderson dropped it or left the Government. The litigation was dropped.
Mr. Chretien's appointment of his nephew, Raymond Chretien, as Ambassador to the United States, also sent out some confusing signals, even though the nephew is a respected career foreign service officer. The Prime Minister stuck by the decision.
Mr. Chretien has so far found himself in hotter water internationally.
 
Embarrassment Over Bosnia
 Because of inadequate briefings, attributed to attempts to save money through staff reductions, the Government ended up contradicting itself during the recent summit meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. First Canada said it would accept no NATO bombing in Bosnia, only to acknowledge the next day that it would.
It has also taken criticism because of the mistreatment of Canadian peacekeeping troops in Bosnia. In one incident, 11 Canadians were held by drunken Bosnian Serbs, who fired shots near the soldiers before releasing them.
Yet polls show support for Mr. Chretien even greater than during his election triumph on Oct. 25. A Gallup survey taken Dec. 3-14 found that 56 percent backed the Liberal Party of Mr. Chretien, up from 51 percent in November and 41 percent in the election. Another poll, conducted Dec. 15-20 by the Angus Reid Group, placed the approval rating at 61 percent.
But Mr. Chretien has yet to deal with the two mega-issues that will define his tenure: cutting the deficit while meeting campaign promises of jobs and economic growth, and managing the problem of his native Quebec. The province is again threatening secession, this time supported by a huge bloc of separatist members of Parliament.
An avid federalist, Mr. Chretien says he does not believe that Quebecers will vote to separate. The answer will come within the first two years of his watch, and is likely to be a cliffhanger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: OTTAWA CITIZEN (53%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); WRITERS (63%); HELICOPTERS (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) JEAN CHRETIEN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



600 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL NOTES;
In Connecticut, a Wait For Would-Be Candidate

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
John G. Rowland, a former Republican United States Representative from Waterbury, Conn., came within a whisker of beating Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. in the 1990 race for governor. Since then he has been his party's presumptive front-runner for 1994, a heavyweight without portfolio whose every appearance in or out of state politics has begged the question of his future.
And Mr. Rowland has milked the suspense for all it is worth, delaying and postponing an announcement of his candidacy for months, while hinting strongly that he would indeed run again. The tease has worked, at least to the extent of making the declared field of candidates appear to be standing on stage waiting for his appearance. 
 But as the weeks of fund-raising and publicity efforts by his rivals have rolled by, Mr. Rowland's absence has begun to beg another question: When does a grand dramatic entrance simply become a late start? Mr. Rowland finally formed a campaign committee nearly two weeks ago, allowing him to begin soliciting money, and said last week that he would make his formal announcement on Jan. 31. His major opponents, meanwhile, had already raised more than $800,000 before Mr. Rowland could even put his toe in the water.
"It's rather late," said Francis J. Collins, the campaign chairman for Pauline R. Kezer, the Republican Secretary of the State who announced her plans last year and formally declared her candidacy for governor earlier this month. Mr. Collins said he believed Mr. Rowland's "continuing delay" in formally stepping into the race reflects badly on his character.
"The only conclusion I can come to is that it reflects some indecision on his part," Mr. Collins said.
Nonsense, said Francis G. Brennan, the political director for the Rowland campaign. Mr. Brennan conceded that Mr. Rowland had promised to make his announcement last fall after the November municipal elections. The date was pushed back, Mr. Brennan said, when it became clear that the field of candidates was not that strong. As for fund raising, he said he has no doubt that Mr. Rowland can raise at least $2.8 million -- his 1990 total, which took 13 months to assemble -- in the 10 months left before Election Day.
"There was no need for us to join the herd," Mr. Brennan said. "There is a timing to everything."
 
Carville to Skip Campaigns
 James Carville, the "Ragin' Cajun" adviser to President Clinton, star of the current documentary "The War Room," and -- with his wife, Mary Matalin, a big budget author -- apparently has no time for New Jersey, where his last campaign, managing the race of former Gov. Jim Florio, ended in an upset defeat last fall. He said this week that other commitments would prevent him from running this year's re-election campaign for Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, even though Mr. Carville managed his campaign six years ago.
"Except for a little work for Gov. Zell Miller down in Georgia and Senator (Harris) Wofford in Pennsylvania, I'm not really working this year," Mr. Carville said in a telephone interview from his car the other day. "Our book is due in August and I'm too busy."
Enter David Eichenbaum. Mr. Eichenbaum, it was announced last week, has signed on as manager of the Lautenberg campaign. A New Jersey native who was press secretary to Carol Mosley-Braun's winning Senate campaign from Illinois in 1992, he has also worked for the presidential campaign of former Senator Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, and for Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut. The Lautenberg team will be rounded out with the Washington-based media firm of Grunwald, Eskew & Donilon, one of whose partners, Carter Eskew, also worked for Mr. Lautenberg in 1988.
Together with his partner, Mandy Grunwald, another major Clinton adviser, Mr. Eskew is a triple threat in Senate races in the region this year; they are also working for Democratic Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut.
 
The Big City -- Maybe
 Mayor Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport is running for governor on a claim of having turned around Connecticut's largest city. But his city just may be shrinking.
According to a new ranking issued this week by Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, a Hartford-based research group, Connecticut's capital city edged out Bridgeport -- the longstanding No. 1 -- by about 1,000 residents in late 1992. The study used estimates by the State Department ofHealth Services showing Hartford with 140,040 residents, to 139,160 in Bridgeport.
The 1990 United States Census, still the official count, showed Bridgeport with about 2,000 more residents than Hartford, and a state projection issued several years ago also predicted that Bridgeport would grow through the 1990's while Hartford would shrink in population.
Beyond bragging rights, the new municipal order, if sustained, would likely affect grant and aid formulas. But State Senator Alvin W. Penn, a Democrat who represents Bridgeport in the Legislature in Hartford, said the capital has always somehow obtained disproportionate gain when money was being distributed anyway, and that if being No. 1 in population also means being No. 1 in problems, he'll gladly pass the baton.
"There has been no financial gain from being the largest city," he said. "It still feels like we're last."
A New Seat of Power
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman came to office promising change, and she has started to make good on that promise immediately, both politically and in the decor of the Governor's office.
Among her first acts upon assuming the seat of power was to remove an old chair from her State House office that had been used by Woodrow Wilson when he was Governor of New Jersey.
Gov. Jim Florio, whom Mrs. Whitman defeated in November, had retrieved the leather chair and the oak desk Mr. Wilson -- a fellow Democrat -- had used during his years in the State House after someone donated the set to the state. Mr. Florio often pointed out to visitors the historic significance of the furniture.
But Mrs. Whitman sent the chair back to storage on Wednesday, her first full day in office. The new Governor, a Republican, dismissed any suggestions that the decision was based on partisan politics.
"That is one of the most uncomfortable things I've sat on in my life," Mrs. Whitman said. "I cannot believe that Governor Florio sat on it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV); ROWLAND, JOHN G BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994

 
