

201 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE TREASURY: THE PRESIDENT; 
Vice President, An Old Friend, Delivered News

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
It fell to Vice President Dick Cheney, the man who brought Paul H. O'Neill into the administration, to confront his old friend with the news late on Thursday that President Bush no longer required his services.
 Recounting the sequence of events today, administration officials and Republicans close to the White House said that an "angry and hurt" Treasury Secretary O'Neill then called Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff. Mr. O'Neill told Mr. Card that if the White House wanted him out -- after assuring him for months that Mr. Bush fully backed him -- he was resigning immediately. This morning, Mr. O'Neill sent Mr. Bush a four-sentence letter of resignation and left immediately for his home in Pittsburgh. 
 The lone public comment that President Bush made about Mr. O'Neill, the former Alcoa chief whom he brought to Washington, or about Lawrence B. Lindsey, the director of the National Economic Council, whose resignation was also announced today, was a three-sentence statement e-mailed to reporters this afternoon. It thanked the two for helping him lead the nation "out of a recession and back into a period of growth."
Administration officials, who have been eager to distance themselves from an economic team that has been criticized for months by Republicans, Democrats and Wall Street, readily acknowledged that the method of the dismissals was brutal -- and deliberately so. 
"We didn't say we want you to take three weeks to think about it," said a senior administration official.
The quick dispatch of the two men, the officials said, was about ridding the White House of an economic team that never got its message together, that was unable to communicate economic policy and had little of the heft of the foreign policy advisers.
"The message was that we are turning over a new leaf here," said one administration official. 
By next week, another official said, "we should be ready to say, 'Here are the new quarterbacks.' "
Republicans said the seeds of the economic housecleaning were planted over the summer, when corporate scandals, the falling stock market and the sputtering economy brought the White House team under fire, even from many of Mr. Bush's most loyal Republican supporters.
At that time, Republicans said, a group led by Karl C. Rove, the president's top political adviser, began to think that the economic team would have to go. But Mr. Card and Mr. Cheney were not convinced, the accounts continued, and the matter faded as Iraq and the midterm elections loomed.
Things began to change in recent weeks, administration advisers said, as the White House began preparing for what is described by Republicans as a major speech by Mr. Bush about the economy.
"There was a group inside the White House that felt that this economic team could not successfully communicate the president's new economic policies, and the new policies required a new team," said one Republican adviser.
The speech, which was tentatively planned for this month in Chicago, may now be postponed until a new economic team is in place.
Mr. Lindsey has been with Mr. Bush since the early days of the presidential campaign. He was responsible for formulating many of the positions that helped elect Mr. Bush. 
Mr. O'Neill was the embodiment of what the White House once called the "C.E.O. approach." Early in the administration, the Treasury secretary took Mr. Bush on a tour of his department's operations, showing how he had increased efficiency and lowered injuries at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. 
But at least since Nov. 5, Republicans said, the decision was made that both had to go. Mr. Lindsey's National Economic Council, which was supposed to be the economic equivalent of the National Security Council, "had shrunk to irrelevance," a senior Treasury official said.
Mr. O'Neill's pronouncements, including an unfortunate one shortly after Sept. 11, 2001, suggesting that the stock market would be "approaching" new highs in 12 to 18 months, kept attracting the wrong kind of headlines. 
Of the men forced out today, Mr. Lindsey was closer to Mr. Bush, and deciding to remove him was unusual for a president who values loyalty and has so far avoided messy public purges of his senior aides. 
"I'm not surprised by the decision, but I'm shocked by the way it was carried out," said a prominent Republican who is close to Mr. Bush's advisers.
Mr. Bush always professed to view Mr. O'Neill's outspokenness as refreshing, even though Wall Street did not. But Mr. O'Neill made clear that he had little patience for the political sensitivities demanded by life here and frequently said he would be happy to return to private life. 
This morning, Mr. O'Neill, 67, told his senior staff, according to his spokeswoman, Michele Davis, "There are lots of other important things to do in life." 
Ms. Davis said Mr. O'Neill would most likely "retire and devote himself to improving health care and education in Pittsburgh."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, left, and Vice President Dick Cheney last month at a meeting in the White House. (The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); SCANDALS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (90%); KARL ROVE (58%) O'NEILL, PAUL; CARD, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK; BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



202 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE TREASURY: THE TREASURY SECRETARY; 
BUSH, IN SHAKE-UP OF CABINET, OUSTS TREASURY LEADER

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Wrestling with a shaky economy and criticism that his administration projects a muddled message on how to respond, President Bush today dismissed his Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, and the director of his National Economic Council, Lawrence B. Lindsey.
 The move, announced in a brief written statement by Mr. Bush with lukewarm thanks to both men, is Mr. Bush's first cabinet shake-up in his nearly two years as president. The fate of the two officials had been the subject of speculation for months, but still came as a shock to Mr. O'Neill, Mr. Lindsey and many of Mr. Bush's allies in Congress. 
 Administration officials conceded in private conversations that Mr. O'Neill had first lost the confidence of the markets and then gradually of senior White House officials, especially his initial champion, Vice President Dick Cheney. 
In coming months, as the White House rolls out a new tax plan and a series of other economic measures to show that the president is as focused on the economy as he is on terrorism, the officials said it was crucial that their team speak clearly and with one voice.
The president's move also demonstrates that the White House has grown increasingly concerned that Mr. Bush, like his father, could pay a political price if the country's economic woes are not addressed more forcefully. News analysis, Page A14. 
The dismissals come when business confidence is stubbornly low, investment is weak and joblessness is rising. Less than two hours before Mr. O'Neill surprised Washington with his resignation, the Commerce Department reported that unemployment last month surged at an unexpectedly fast rate last month, to 6 percent from 5.7.
Among the names most frequently mentioned as a successor to Mr. O'Neill was that of Gerald R. Parsky, a financier who ran Mr. Bush's presidential campaign in California, and Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans.
People close to the White House said Stephen Friedman, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, was a strong favorite to succeed Mr. Lindsey.
Though administration officials said they wanted more effective spokesmen on the economy, the move did not appear to signal a broad new direction for Mr. Bush's policies. Mr. O'Neill and Mr. Lindsey took opposite sides on key internal debates. In sharp contrast to Mr. Lindsey, Mr. O'Neill persistently expressed skepticism about the need for a broad new package of tax cuts to give the economy a short-term stimulus.
Although Mr. Lindsey was a prime architect of the tax cut that Mr. Bush claims as one of his signature achievements, both he and Mr. O'Neill had been widely perceived as weak links in the administration. 
Mr. O'Neill, in particular, attracted frequent criticism for rattling the markets with off-the-cuff remarks about the dollar and other major issues. 
The stock markets, which dropped after release of the new report on joblessness, rebounded with news of the shuffle. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 22.49 points, at 8,645.77.
The White House did not announce successors for either position, but some people close to the administration predicted that the president would settle on his choices in the coming days. 
People close to the administration and on Capitol Hill said Mr. Parsky was a leading choice to succeed Mr. O'Neill. Besides running Mr. Bush's campaign in California, he served in the Treasury Department under President Gerald R. Ford and on President Bush's Social Security Commission. 
Other names mentioned for the Treasury post were former Representative Bill Archer, a Texas Republican who retired in 1999 as chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and a long list of wild-card choices like Senator John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat but a conservative who has supported Mr. Bush in some tax fights. 
The most frequently mentioned name both inside and outside the administration for the National Economic Council, which coordinates economic advice for the president, was Mr. Friedman. He was brought to the administration's attention by Josh Bolten, the deputy White House chief of staff, who had also worked at Goldman Sachs.
The nominee for Treasury secretary -- but not the choice to head the economic council -- must face confirmation by the Senate.
For the moment, at least, Mr. Bush has only a skeleton economic team. Even as he moves to replace the two posts being vacated today, he must also find a replacement for Harvey L. Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Mr. Pitt was forced to resign last month after a disastrous effort to name the head of a new accounting oversight board, a decision at the heart of efforts to improve corporate governance following scandals from Enron to WorldCom.
Democratic lawmakers seized on today's overhaul as evidence that the Bush administration's economic policy has faltered.
"Firing its economic team is an overdue admission by the Bush administration that its economic policies have failed," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate's Democratic leader.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, compared the administration to the Titanic: "When you're headed in the wrong direction, you don't just need new people in the deck chairs," he said. "You need to change course." 
Republicans were restrained and somber. 
"Ultimately, this is the president's economic team, and I will support the president and his goals," said Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
Administration officials have been tentatively planning for Mr. Bush to deliver a major economic speech in Chicago on Dec. 17. The president's advisers said his most urgent need was not for policy advice but for a unified, forceful sales team with which to campaign for his plan in Congress. 
People close to Mr. Lindsey and Mr. O'Neill said both men had thought their jobs were secure. Their bad news came on Thursday night, when Vice President Cheney and Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, let both know that the time had come to resign.
White House officials had hoped to announce the resignations on Monday, but Mr. O'Neill angrily sent any icy letter of resignation this morning. By the time the letter was released, Mr. O'Neill had already driven back to his home city, Pittsburgh, without speaking to the press.
"There are lots of other important things to do in life," Mr. O'Neill said in a brief statement from the Treasury Department. The statement said he would devote himself to education and health care issues in Pittsburgh.
Word of his resignation came from the White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, who said the president had accepted the resignation. 
Mr. Bush's statement included little discussion of the contributions the two men had made. "They have served my administration and nation well," he said. "I thank them for their excellent service."
As Mr. Bush settles on replacement for Mr. O'Neill, even supporters of the administration say that there are few people now within the administration who have the stature to be a credible treasury secretary.
Kenneth Dam, the deputy secretary of the treasury, has been in charge of the department's effort to crack financial networks supporting terrorism. But that program has been plagued with problems, from recalcitrance among allies to bureaucratic warfare with law enforcement agencies and the Central Intelligence Agency.
Today, people close to Mr. Dam predicted that he would resign, as well. A spokesman for the Treasury Department refused to comment, but the department announced that Mr. Dam had canceled a trip to Latin American scheduled for next week. 
Mr. O'Neill, 67, was little known in Washington when he was named treasury secretary, but he quickly gained notice for rattling financial markets with off-the-cuff remarks about the value of the dollar or the need for bailing out countries like Brazil.
He sent currency speculators into a frenzy earlier this year when he insisted to a German newspaper that "we are not pursuing, as it is often said, a policy of a strong dollar."
Mr. O'Neill also had substantive disputes with other members of the administration -- and was often on the losing side. Worried about the rising budget deficit and instinctively dubious about short-term stimulus measures, he argued that the administration should adopt only narrowly defined tax cut measures aimed at particular sectors of weakness. He was overruled by other White House advisers, and President Bush has made it clear he would unveil a "jobs" package in January, if not sooner.
Mr. Lindsey, a former professor of economics and a former member of the Federal Reserve Board, was on the winning side of that argument. But he was seen as a weak spokesman for economic policy, and he created a stir by publicly predicting that the cost of a war with Iraq might reach $200 billion, a much higher estimate than others circulating at the time.
If Mr. Friedman is chosen for the National Economic Council, he would give the White House a person with extensive experience on Wall Street, something that few other top officials have. Because his post is not a cabinet position, moreover, it would not require Senate confirmation or exhaustive scrutiny of his deal-making background.
That is an advantage, because White House officials are still stinging from the debacle surrounding the nomination of William H. Webster, the former F.B.I. and C.I.A. director, to lead a new oversight board for the accounting industry. Mr. Webster resigned from the job after it became known that he served on the board of a company being investigated for potential accounting irregularities.
Naming a new treasury secretary may be more complicated. 
Mr. Evans, who was a top executive at an oil exploration company and was a major fund-raiser for Mr. Bush's presidential campaign, was mentioned by several people today as one of the most likely candidates.
But Mr. Evans does not have much stature in domestic and international financial markets, and his inexperience could produce gaffes like Mr. O'Neill's.
Former Representative Archer is both well known and experienced, but he is now a consultant with a potentially long list of tangled business relationships. 
Other names have surfaced as possible candidates. One is Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative. Mr. Zoellick is a protege of James B. Baker, the former treasury secretary and secretary of state in the Reagan and first Bush administrations, and he has held senior posts in both departments and also in the White House.
Many financial executives would like to see someone from Wall Street become the next treasury secretary, and there were rumors about people like Richard A. Grasso, president of the New York Stock Exchange, and Charles R. Schwab, founder of the discount brokerage firm.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul H. O'Neill is leaving the administration's economic team. (Getty Images)(pg. A1); Lawrence B. Lindsey, the dismissed National Economic Council chief, shown with President Bush last year. (Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); POLITICS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); TERRORISM (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL; TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



203 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Filing Appears Ever More Likely at United 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG with RIVA D. ATLAS 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
The chief executive of United Airlines, Glenn F. Tilton, acknowledged today that a bankruptcy filing was "a more likely outcome" for the carrier in the wake of its unsuccessful effort to obtain a federal loan guarantee. And, raising the ire of some union leaders, he said that the airline would seek concessions on work rules from its employees.
 United, the world's second-largest carrier, continued to work out details on loans from four major lenders in preparation for a Chapter 11 filing that is expected on Sunday or Monday. The airline, a unit of the UAL Corporation, has worked out terms with lenders that would give it immediate access to half of $1.5 billion in debtor-in-possession financing, according to one person briefed on the arrangements. 
 The 12-member board of UAL, which includes one representative each from the pilots, machinists and salaried workers, was scheduled to meet in Chicago on Saturday. A board vote is needed to approve a Chapter 11 filing. 
Union leaders spent today talking with one another and with executives at United to see what would be needed from workers in a last-ditch effort to keep the airline out of bankruptcy court. Paul Whiteford, the representative of the pilots' union on the board, said in a phone interview that the company had yet to approach the pilots about further concessions even though industry experts and analysts said executives would have to obtain deep cuts from workers to operate under bankruptcy protection.
"The company has had no conversation with any of the principals about its business plan going into Chapter 11," Mr. Whiteford said. "I don't think the company has been focusing on Chapter 11. The company has been talking about staying outside of court."
Although union leaders said they held out hope that the airline would make another appeal to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, the federal panel that rejected United's bid for a $1.8 billion loan guarantee, there was no sign that the board would seriously reconsider United's application. That spurred Mr. Tilton to tell workers today in a recorded message on a phone hot line: "Obviously with what was essentially a no from the A.T.S.B., Chapter 11 becomes a more likely outcome because it allows us to restructure and to continue to serve our customers while we do it."
In the same message, he said that "under Chapter 11, our plan will have to be more aggressive than it would have been out of court." United, he said, "will need more cost savings" and "work rules will have to be on the table."
"We have to take this opportunity to create a durable, stable cost structure," he added.
Mr. Whiteford said that Mr. Tilton's comments could pose a significant threat to employee morale.
"I was surprised to see anyone from the company, much less the C.E.O., comment on what would occur in a collective bargaining process if we were to go into Chapter 11," he said. "I consider the process premature."
Scotty Ford, the president of the union local that represents United's mechanics, said that as long as the airline was still out of bankruptcy court, "I'm not ready to open up my contract and give up things to make up for bad management practices."
He added that the business plan that United executives presented to the federal panel "stunk," and that "to miss the boat by this much is an embarrassment."
Patricia A. Friend, president of the Association of Flight Attendants, said she could not recall her workers ever entering an airline bankruptcy without having already worked out concession agreements with the company. Almost all the unions agreed in the last month to give United $4.5 billion in concessions, but those agreements were voided when the mechanics voted against giving concessions and when the government rejected the loan- guarantee application on Wednesday.
On the hot line, Mr. Tilton said that United had been laying out a dual-track plan by working with financial advisers to prepare for a bankruptcy filing if the loan guarantee fell through. Today, the airline continued working out last-minute details on $1.5 billion in financing with Citigroup, J. P. Morgan Chase, Bank One and the lending arm of General Electric. Bank One issues the credit cards linked to United's frequent-flier program.
A debtor-in-possession loan is a form of financing that receives the first claim on a bankrupt company's assets, ahead of all other creditors. It is usually provided by a handful of lenders, like banks or finance companies, who then sell off pieces of the loan to other institutions.
It is unlikely that United is focused right now on finding a private investor to take a large equity stake in the company and help shepherd it through the bankruptcy process, according to a lawyer who has worked on airline bankruptcies. More pressing concerns include completing the debtor-in-possession financing and negotiating with unions. Moreover, private equity firms might be wary about becoming involved at this point with the complex governance structure at United, which is 55 percent employee-owned.
It will probably be several months before United's management has the time to focus on talking to outsiders, the lawyer said. "There is no way this is on their plate right now," he said. "Once you are in the fishbowl of a Chapter 11, it is much more difficult to have that dialogue." The time to begin those discussions was several months ago, he said.
When US Airways filed for bankruptcy last August, it did so after spending weeks negotiating an investment by the Texas Pacific Group, the private equity firm that has invested in several troubled airlines. Texas Pacific, which committed itself to taking a stake in US Airways at the time of its bankruptcy filing, was eventually outbid by the Retirement Systems of Alabama.
Executives close to United, contacted earlier this week, did not rule out eventually holding discussions with a private equity investor like Texas Pacific. A spokesman for Texas Pacific, Owen Blicksilver, declined to comment about whether that group might be interested in making an investment in United. Another past investor in airlines, Carl C. Icahn, said yesterday that he was not interested in taking a stake in United. Mr. Icahn struggled for years to turn around Trans World Airlines, which was acquired out of bankruptcy by American Airlines last year.
Some industry experts noted that Marvin Davis, a billionaire oil investor from Los Angeles, or David G. Bronner, the chief executive of the Alabama pension fund, or Jonathan Ornstein, the chief executive of Mesa Air, might eventually want to be involved in United. When asked about the airline, Mr. Bronner simply said, "Everything that US Air did right, United did wrong."
Reflecting those missteps, the stock of UAL continued to decline today, slipping 7 cents, to 93 cents a share.
The manager of one hedge fund with short-term bonds in United said his company was debating whether to try to obtain representation on the creditors' committee that would be assembled by the bankruptcy court. All bondholders are undoubtedly wondering right now whether to take part, the manager said. The unions would probably try to get on the committee, with the machinists having the best chance because the company owes them $500 million in back pay.
A few politicians in Washington chimed in on behalf of United and its workers today, but their comments are unlikely to avert a bankruptcy filing. House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, a Republican from United's home state, Illinois, said that the federal panel's decision was "clearly a wrongheaded decision for our nation's economy on so many grounds."
The Rev. Jesse Jackson said that the Bush administration, which had appointees on the federal panel, was "trivializing the impact of airline bankruptcies on jobs, services and households."

GRAPHIC: Photo: United Airlines mechanics left the maintenance base at the end of their shift at San Francisco International Airport on Wednesday, after the airline had lost its bid for $1.8 billion in federal loan guarantees. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); AIRLINES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); WORKPLACE MORALE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING) 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (89%) WONG, EDWARD; ATLAS, RIVA D; TILTON, GLENN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



204 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 3933 words

HEADLINE: Architecture 

BYLINE:  By Martin Filler 

 BODY:
Martin Filler, the architecture critic of The New Republic, writes frequently for The New York Review of Books and House & Garden.
 AFTER THE WORLD TRADE CENTER: Rethinking New York City. Edited by Michael Sorkin and Sharon Zukin. (Routledge, $25.) 
 OUT OF GROUND ZERO: Case Studies in Urban Reinvention. Edited by Joan Ockman. (Buell Center/Prestel, $29.95.) 
A NEW DEAL FOR NEW YORK. By Mike Wallace. (Gotham Center/Bell & Weiland, $18.95.) Amid the torrent of books provoked by the World Trade Center disaster, three dealing with its implications for architecture and city planning stand out. In "After the World Trade Center," Michael Sorkin, an architect and critic, and Sharon Zukin, a sociologist at the CUNY Graduate Center, assemble a collection of 19 wide-ranging essays on reconceiving and reconstructing the site of the Twin Towers. 
For "Out of Ground Zero," the architectural historian Joan Ockman has commissioned a superlative series of instructive case studies of cities that have suffered greater loss of life and property than New York did last year. The Lisbon earthquake of 1755, the Chicago fire of 1871 and the bombings of Rotterdam, Bristol, Berlin and Hiroshima during World War II provide a historical framework for considering the future direction of downtown Manhattan. Needed most of all, as a strong essay by the political scientist Benjamin R. Barber puts it, is a broader recognition, counter to our country's deep-seated antiurban biases, of "the city as democracy's forge."
In "A New Deal for New York," the urbanologist Mike Wallace -- who with Edwin G. Burrows wrote "Gotham," the best general history of New York City to date -- sets forth a bracingly optimistic program for regenerating not just Ground Zero but the whole metropolitan region. This mini-manifesto of fewer than 100 5-by-7-inch pages calls for an all-out government-supported program modeled after the sweeping initiatives of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. Acutely attuned to the economic and political realities that determine the architecture of cities, Wallace nonetheless sees no need to stifle the humanitarian impulses that pulled America out of the Great Depression. Here he urges that however conservative the electorate may seem to have become in recent decades, a similar spirit of shared purpose can prevail against the very different perils we face today. 
NEW YORK MASJID: The Mosques of New York City. By Jerrilynn D. Dodds. Photographs by Edward Grazda. (PowerHouse Books, $35.) The more than 100 houses of worship of New York's big and ethnically diverse Muslim community remain largely invisible to nonbelievers, and in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks this may suit local followers of the Prophet Muhammad just fine. Throughout the city, most mosques have been established in converted houses, storefronts, lofts and theaters that tend to blend into their neighborhoods, save for newly applied motifs like stylized Islamic arches, domes and minarets. The few constructed as mosques, like Skidmore, Owings & Merrill's high-profile Islamic Cultural Center on Third Avenue and 96th Street in Manhattan, seem all the more startling in contrast.
In this timely survey, Jerrilynn D. Dodds, an architectural historian at City College, and the photographer Edward Grazda -- both of them with extensive working experience in Islamic cultures -- examine the variety of ways in which local Muslim communities satisfy the basic religious requirements of mosques. The Fatih Cami Mosque, in a recycled movie house in Brooklyn, is decorated with a filmy fabric screen that separates male and female congregants, as well as a dazzling tile wall and mihrab, or niche, that would be the pride of any sultan. More makeshift prayer rooms elsewhere convey a touching dignity not at all dependent on exquisite materials and classical Islamic design. 
An immovable problem is how to reconcile orthogonal street patterns with the injunction that worshipers face toward the Kaaba, Islam's holiest shrine. The city's half-dozen newly built mosques are therefore rotated against the dominant grid, whereas retrofitted interiors of buildings designed for other purposes must be adjusted to signify the sacred orientation. "We do not pray to Atlantic Avenue," one of the faithful told Dodds, "we pray to Mecca." A photo of an impromptu 9/11 memorial in front of the Masjid Hazrat-i-Abu Bakr in Queens underscores an observation by the author: "The mosques themselves remind us that it is impossible to isolate ourselves from something which is already part of us."
PETRA. By Maria Giulia Amadasi Guzzo and Eugenia Equini Schneider. Translated by Lydia G. Cochrane. (University of Chicago, $45.)
PETRA AND THE LOST KINGDOM OF THE NABATAEANS. By Jane Taylor. (Harvard University, $39.95.) With the notable exception of Pharaonic Egypt, the reality of most lost kingdoms would disappoint people brought up on Hollywood's lush fantasies of ancient architecture. But Petra, a prosperous spice-trade crossroads that was the capital city of the Nabataean Arabs and flourished for four centuries around the beginning of the first millennium in what is now southern Jordan, makes dreams of vanished splendor come alive. Hewn out of pink sandstone cliffs and accessible only through a narrow protective crevasse, Petra disappeared from Western consciousness after the Crusades, only to be "rediscovered" in 1812 by the Swiss explorer Johann Ludwig Burckhardt.
Two new books feature Petra's best-known landmark on their dust jackets. The Khazneh el-Farun, or Pharaoh's Treasury, was probably a mausoleum, funerary monument or temple. It survives as one of the most sophisticated of all Classical compositions, and the finest of the city's 800 structures. The ebullient two-story facade, with its Hellenistic split pediment flanking a Greek-inspired tholos (a cylindrical form surrounded by columns), anticipates the mischievous distortions of Italian Mannerism by some 1,500 years.
"Petra," by Maria Giulia Amadasi Guzzo and Eugenia Equini Schneider, who teach at the University of Rome, is the more historically comprehensive of the two books. "Petra and the Lost Kingdom of the Nabataeans," by Jane Taylor, a photographer and writer, captures the mysterious spirit of the place. The two Italian scholars cite the Nabataeans' cult of the dead as a key to the magical aura of the place: "The very concept of survival assumes a special significance here as the ability to perpetuate personal memory for a never-ending posterity continuing indefinitely through time."
COSMATESQUE ORNAMENT: Flat Polychrome Geometric Patterns in Architecture. By Paloma Pajares-Ayuela. (Norton, $75.) One of the more recondite architecture books this year is also among the handsomest and most intellectually stimulating. The circle of Italian artists in masonry known as the Cosmati -- six families based in and around Rome during the 12th and 13th centuries -- devised an intricately patterned ornamental stone paving and inlay with which they sought to revive the decorative magnificence of classical antiquity. In fact, they wound up outdoing the ancients. At a time when Europe was emerging from regional isolation and enjoying greater stability than it had since the fall of the Roman Empire, the influence of the Cosmati spread across the continent as far as Westminster Abbey, where a characteristically durable example of their handiwork still excites wonder. 
Paloma Pajares-Ayuela, an architect in Madrid, explains and codifies the complex organizing principles behind the kaleidoscopically transformative motifs of the Cosmatesque manner. Chief among them is the quincunx, an interwoven pattern of a central circle flowing continuously into four smaller surrounding circles, an emblem of eternity. This absorbing book's 300 pages of color illustrations make the author's visual references abundantly clear to the lay reader -- a rare accomplishment in such a scholarly undertaking.
"Cosmatesque Ornament" is not an arcane tome for scholars only; it is likely to pique the imagination of techies fascinated by fractals, those seemingly random but orderly repeat patterns found throughout nature, and made decipherable thanks to computer research. The intuitive Cosmati unlocked those secrets without the help of modern science, a humbling and encouraging testament to the analytic powers of the human mind. 
GREAT CATHEDRALS. By Bernhard Schutz. Photographs by Albert Hirmer, Florian Monheim and Joseph Martin. (Abrams, $85.) As art history students more than 30 years ago, my Columbia classmates and I struggled over black-and-white photo prints of the apses of look-alike Gothic cathedrals in a desperate attempt to memorize enough small differences in details to pass our final exams. Had we this gorgeously reproduced volume overflowing with sublime color images of some of the most celebrated European churches of the Middle Ages, we'd all have gotten A's. 
Though "Great Cathedrals" concentrates on only five countries -- England, France, Germany, Italy and Spain -- it includes several churches that will be unfamiliar to most Americans, like the stupendous seats of the bishops of Speyer and Worms in Germany, Modena and Monreale in Italy and Burgos and Leon in Spain. Architectural pilgrims will nominate their own candidates for a sequel volume: mine include Spain's multifarious Valencia and France's monolithic Albi. The one cathedral that comes off less than successfully here is Chartres, the anodyne pictures of which do not begin to hint at its dark, almost violent beauty. 
CHATSWORTH: The House. By the Duchess of Devonshire. Photographs by Simon Upton. (Frances Lincoln/Antique Collectors' Club, $50.)
WADDESDON MANOR: The Heritage of a Rothschild House. By Michael Hall. Photographs by John Bigelow Taylor. (Abrams, $65.) The Duchess of Devonshire (nee Deborah Mitford), unlike her more famous and in some cases infamous sisters, has made a career for herself not in literature, journalism or radical politics but as chatelaine of what many regard as the grandest house in Britain. It is clear from this captivating room-by-room guide and personal memoir that she shares with her writer siblings Nancy and Jessica a keen intelligence, sharp eye for social observation, droll sense of humor and passion for her profession. "We live in furnished rooms," she slyly begins. "There are a great many of them and they are very well furnished." 
Helping her husband, the 11th duke, run the sprawling Cavendish estate in Derbyshire is a full-time job, one that she has done with diligence, relish and consummate flair for more than half a century. They brought the property back from the brink of postwar ruin and enriched it with modern contributions, including a remarkable series of family portraits by the young Lucian Freud, who also painted superscale cyclamens on a wall of a tiny bathroom.
Begun in 1552 but rebuilt in the Classical style from 1686 onward, Chatsworth presents a dense tapestry of interwoven history -- of architecture, art, decoration and the Cavendish family. The duchess picks out a number of the most glittering strands by quoting liberally from the journals of previous occupants, particularly the so-called bachelor duke, whose 47-year reign during the 19th century set the standard for devotion to the house. "How I would love to come face to face with the undisputed spirit of this place," she writes of him. 
In contrast, Waddesdon Manor in Buckinghamshire, created in a comparative trice, is the least English of all the stately homes of England. It survives as the last intact original example of le gout Rothschild, the sumptuous 19th-century taste of the far-flung members of the legendary banking family. Rather than aping the Classical architecture of Britain's aristocracy, the cosmopolitan Baron Ferdinand Rothschild (who was born in Paris and lived in Vienna before resettling in London) in 1874 commissioned Gabriel-Hippolyte Destailleur to design an imposing French Renaissance Revival chateau.
Erected atop a hill amid 2,700 acres offloaded by a hard-up Duke of Marlborough, this incongruous trophy house became a magnet for royalty, nobility and prime ministers, who flocked to partake of their host's lavish hospitality and to gape at his treasures. Since the current Lord Rothschild, a discerning arts patron and entrepreneur, inherited the Waddesdon estate in 1988 (the house itself is administered by the National Trust), he has done an exemplary restoration of the mansion and grounds, playing up their Victorian swagger and Francophile exoticism. This richly illustrated volume celebrates that effort. It also delivers an implicit rebuke to Lord Rothschild's father, a socialist who sold a nearby estate, as well as the family's fabled Piccadilly town house and its staggering collections, abdicating a heritage that the incumbent peer has labored hard to recoup. 
LE CORBUSIER BEFORE LE CORBUSIER: Applied Arts, Architecture, Painting, Photography, 1907-1922. Edited by Stanislaus von Moos and Arthur Ruegg. (Bard Graduate Center/Yale University, $65.) The catchy title of this superb catalog of the exhibition on view through Feb. 23 at the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture in New York City is a clever misnomer. During the 35 years before this most influential of 20th-century architects adopted his pseudonym of Le Corbusier in 1922 (the year his epochal career shifted into high gear), he was Charles-Edouard Jeanneret. Born in the watchmaking center of La Chaux-de-Fonds in the Swiss Jura, Jeanneret displayed extraordinary talent from an early age, and he received a first-rate art and technical education in schools dedicated to supporting the main local source of income. 
Le Corbusier's juvenilia are of central importance in understanding the pivotal redirection of his later work. After revolutionizing architecture with the cool machine imagery of his starkly cubic, white, ornament-free buildings of the 1920's, he turned increasingly to a vocabulary of vernacular forms and natural materials that evoked the folkloric influences of his childhood home. This thorough study of his early development adds significantly to the already overwhelming literature about him. The lively and inferential exploration of the architect's youthful travels by the Swiss architectural historian Stanislaus von Moos focuses not just on their broadening effect on Le Corbusier's worldview but also on the way they were reflected in his dynamic reconception of movement though interior space.
Equally praiseworthy is the fluent and elegantly reasoned account of Le Corbusier's work by the architectural historian Francesco Passanti. On its surface, the master's audacious experimental approach may seem the antithesis of ancient proportional systems, but he absorbed Classical influences through his knowing eye and transformed them with a hidden hand. 
IMPERIAL DELHI: The British Capital of the Indian Empire. By Andreas Volwahsen. (Prestel, $75.)
DOME OVER INDIA: Rashtrapati Bhavan. By Aman Nath. (India Book House/Antiques Collectors' Club, $95.) The colossal seat of government that the British decreed at New Delhi in the twilight of the Raj is given politically inflected interpretations in two books on that vaingloriously quixotic venture.
In "Imperial Delhi," Andreas Volwahsen, a German scholar of Indian architecture, entertains some dubious speculations. He detects Masonic symbolism in New Delhi's city plan and the ornamentation of its centerpiece, Sir Edwin Lutyens's Viceroy's House of 1912-31. He also imagines that because several members of Britain's royal family were Freemasons, the architect's wife (daughter of an earl) made him susceptible to that secret society -- although he acknowledges that Lutyens was not a Mason and that some motifs he used are common to imperial Mogul tradition. Worse yet, he tries to link New Delhi with the megalomaniacal 1937-39 scheme for rebuilding Berlin, as conceived by Hitler and given form by Albert Speer. 
Beautifully produced with panoramic gatefolds, "Dome Over India," by the New Delhi native Aman Nath, is nationalistically polemical, a reminder that rancor over Britain's colonial rule of India, which ended 55 years ago, still runs deep. Not so deep, however, that the Viceroy's House (renamed Rashtrapati Bhavan, or President's House, after India achieved independence) cannot be appreciated as a supreme architectural treasure.
A brilliant marriage of Classical and Mogul forms adorned with inventive details (including ventilator grilles and garden walls mimicking the pun-loving Lutyens's round spectacles), it is an endlessly surprising series of spatial unfoldings and climaxes. It dwarfs, in scale and quality, poor old Buckingham Palace. Seeing it, the future Edward VIII wisecracked, "I never understood how a king should live until I saw the Viceroy of India."
Both volumes dwell on the bitter struggles Lutyens endured in the collaboration with his erstwhile friend Sir Herbert Baker, who was responsible for other buildings in the governmental complex. Lutyens's abiding grievance was that Baker countermanded his order that the triumphal avenue to the Viceroy's House be gently graded, allowing the central dome to be constantly visible as one approaches. As laid out, the road was given more of an upward curve, causing the architectural terminus to vanish briefly from sight, only to reappear with stronger dramatic impact in the eyes of some beholders. Lutyens did not see it that way. His daughter Mary recalled, "We were brought up to look on Baker as a villain who had ruined Father's life's work."
THE CHRYSLER BUILDING: Creating a New York Icon, Day by Day. By David Stravitz. (Princeton Architectural Press, $45.) Connoisseurs of the skyscraper have always nurtured a soft spot for William Van Alen's Chrysler Building of 1928-30, the epitome of Art Deco New York at its most theatrically glamorous. With a multi-arched polished steel dome agleam with spiky sun rays, streamlined eagle-head gargoyles and a wrap-around frieze of stylized cars that is replete with metal "hubcaps," this jazzy paean to the power of its automotive patron was despised by early proponents of the International Style, who saw its ornament as populist kitsch. But never has a tall building been more beloved by the public, and by aficionados of architecture who are relaxed enough to enjoy the guiltless pleasures of this playful and idiosyncratic corporate monument.
David Stravitz's documentary record of the making of the Chrysler Building -- largely composed of the work of the long-forgotten New York commercial and industrial photography firm of Alfred E. Peyser and August L. Patzig -- goes well beyond the mundane progress shots typical of most construction projects. What sets these nuanced black-and-white depictions apart is how well they place the subject within the context of the city. Even more striking than the views of the skyscraper going up are those taken from it, especially the minutely detailed prospects extending the length and breadth of Manhattan. How much it has changed since then is a revelation. At that time slaughterhouses stank where the United Nations now stands; els clattered past brownstones on Second, Third and Sixth Avenues; and walls of stolid masonry lined Park Avenue where glass office boxes now rise. Gritty street scenes straight out of Depression Era movies underscore the stark contrast between the dazzling new tower and the tough lives of those who pounded the pavements below. 
CASE STUDY HOUSES. By Elizabeth A. T. Smith. Principal photography by Julius Shulman. Edited by Peter Goessel. (Taschen, $150.) The joke about coffee-table books used to be that if you attached four legs to one you'd have a coffee table. That could really be done with this 10-pound, 12 1/2-by-16-inch slab, a glamorous if ponderous tribute to the 28 Case Study Houses, John Entenza's noble experiment in promoting the best of modern residential architecture in Southern California in his Arts & Architecture magazine during the optimistic years after World War II.
The excessive format does deliver some thrills, beginning with almost yard-wide Vistavision endpapers reproducing Julius Shulman's iconic nighttime view of Pierre Koenig's vertiginous Stahl house (1959-60) perched in the Hollywood Hills above the glittering grid of Los Angeles. You'd have to go to a drive-in movie in a fully loaded El Dorado convertible to experience such an immersive and luxurious period effect. In a poignant postscript, the photographer, architect and patrons are shown reunited, much aged but ever gallant, at that still breathtaking structure last year.
Alas, the Case Study Houses program progressed inexorably downward, from the lyrical early designs of Charles and Ray Eames, Eero Saarinen, Richard Neutra, Raphael Soriano and Craig Ellwood to the static late schemes by Killingsworth, Brady & Smith and Buff & Hensman. It becomes inescapable that overrationalized Miesian housing ran into the same creative dead end that confronted International Style skyscrapers. The architectural historian Elizabeth A. T. Smith acquits herself well here, though this seminal topic is more probingly addressed in "Blueprints for Modern Living," a catalog she edited for her memorable 1989 Case Study House exhibition at the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art. 
GEOFFREY BAWA: The Complete Works. By David Robson. (Thames and Hudson, $65.) The awarding of the Pritzker Architecture Prize has sometimes suggested a geographical distribution intended to prevent its being monopolized by the Americans and Western Europeans who dominate critical discourse. On pure merit, the Pritzker jury could honor itself by giving the prize to the 83-year-old Sri Lankan master Geoffrey Bawa, whose distinguished career was effectively ended by a severe stroke in 1998. Not since Luis Barragan flourished in Mexico and Hassan Fathy in Egypt has a third world architect been so deserving of international recognition. Bawa's sensitive syntheses of indigenous traditions, environmental awareness and regional appropriateness in an age of headlong modernization and globalization made him, from the late 1940's onward, a pioneer of concepts that have since taken root among designers who deplore the sameness modernism has imposed around the world.
Bawa practiced law in London and then at home before turning to architecture in his 30's, pursuing his second profession with an unswerving local focus that in hindsight seems universal in its emphasis on domestic intimacy, natural beauty and spiritual repose. Though the largest number of his commissions were for private houses, his New Parliament building (1979-82), set on an island in a lake, is one of the most fitting governmental buildings of the 20th century. This serene clustering of pavilions, whose vast overhanging roofs draw on age-old Sinhalese precedents, seems at once timeless and contemporary, the perfect symbol of a young democracy and ancient culture searching for a unified identity during terrible ethnic strife.
This much-needed monograph sets down a complete chronology of the work of an elusive figure who is strikingly unconcerned with self-promotion in a profession obsessed with celebrity. It captures the essence of Bawa's often modest but always thoughtful work in over 500 illustrations. David 
Robson, a professor of architecture at the University of Brighton and a close friend of Bawa, is to be commended for this valuable contribution to the literature of the modern building art at its most humane.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A view from the roof of the Albanian Islamic Cultural Center on Staten Island; from "New York Masjid: The Mosques of New York City," by Jerrilynn D. Dodds and Edward Grazda.; Cosmati work in a detail of the pavement of the nave in the Church of Santa Francesca Romana in Rome; from "Cosmatesque Ornament: Flat Polychrome Geometric Patterns in Architecture," by Paloma Pajares-Ayuela.; The Chrysler Building under construction at 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue on May 17, 1929; photograph from "The Chrysler Building: Creating a New York Icon, Day by Day," by David Stravitz. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CASE STUDIES (90%); CITIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (83%); RELIGION (83%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HISTORY (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); LITERATURE (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); TERRORISM (66%); BOMBINGS (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ARCHITECTURE 

PERSON: FILLER, MARTIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



205 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 17270 words

HEADLINE: Notable Books 

 BODY:
This list has been selected from books reviewed since the Holiday Books issue of December 2001. It is meant to suggest some of the high points in this year's fiction and poetry, nonfiction, children's books, mysteries and science fiction. The books are arranged alphabetically under genre headings. The complete reviews of these books may be found at nytimes.com/books.
FICTION & POETRY
ACCIDENTS IN THE HOME. By Tessa Hadley. (Holt, $23.) The link between reading and adultery, refined and elaborated since Flaubert, governs affairs in this rewarding, concentrated first novel about a voraciously literate 29-year-old Englishwoman and her family and her glamorous childhood friend (and the friend's boyfriend, who may be no reader at all).
THE ADVENTURES OF MILES AND ISABEL. By Tom Gilling. (Atlantic Monthly, $23.) A beguiling novel that celebrates a young 19th-century Australian who thinks he can build a flying machine; his opposite number, Isabel, is fairly skeptical about flight but not about love, and both of them are suckers for a good supply of dreams. 
AFTER NATURE. By W. G. Sebald. (Random House, $21.95.) A book-length poem in which the painter Matthias Grunewald, the naturalist Georg Steller and the author himself inhabit a meditation on the sources of the catastrophic imagination, the continuities between nature and human nature, and issues of coming into being and passing away.
AFTER THE QUAKE: Stories. By Haruki Murakami. (Knopf, $21.) The six stories in this slim collection about the emotional aftershocks of the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, which killed more than 4,000 people and left nearly 300,000 homeless, are apt to resonate eerily in an American reader's inner ear, though they were all written before Sept. 11.
AGAPE AGAPE. By William Gaddis. (Viking, $23.95.) The first word in the title of this brilliant posthumous not-really-a-novel has three syllables and refers to love in and of the creation; the book is a kind of farewell summa or parting meditation on life, death and the player piano, seen as a mechanical forerunner of digital computing.
AT SWIM, TWO BOYS. By Jamie O'Neill. (Scribner, $28.) Two great causes -- free Ireland and a free gay nation -- coincide in this polished but energetic novel built on the hazards of love, heroism, history and tenderness, and placed in political and moral history by the Easter Rising of 1916.
THE AUTOGRAPH MAN. By Zadie Smith. (Random House, $24.95.) Smith's entertaining second novel studiously avoids the glorious excesses of her first, "White Teeth," offering instead a lone protagonist (a half-Jewish, half-Chinese autograph trader from North London) and a single quest narrative (a journey to New York in search of a reclusive 1950's starlet).
BAUDOLINO. By Umberto Eco. (Harcourt, $27.) Eco's Bildungsroman, set in the Middle Ages, includes some of the author's familiar obsessions -- forged manuscripts, fake relics -- and features several bizarre episodes and characters of impeccably historical origin.
BEDLAM BURNING. By Geoff Nicholson. (Overlook, $26.95.) A lively novel involving madness, false identities and the nature of authorship (Nicholson's 13th novel; he should know). Its narrator, a handsome chap, agrees to impersonate his friend, a weedy novelist, and winds up in a lunatic asylum.
BE MY KNIFE. By David Grossman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A brilliant concoction by an outstanding Israeli novelist whose hero, a 33-year-old married man, persuades a woman to undertake a brutally honest love affair to be carried on, in a political and physical vacuum, entirely by correspondence.
BET YOUR LIFE. By Richard Dooling. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A forceful novel by a writer and lawyer based in Omaha, who leaves room for ideas as well as characters and action as two men and a woman, all insurance investigators, crusade against so-called "viatical" policies, in which fatally ill people, strapped for cash, sell their policies at deep discounts.
BIG IF. By Mark Costello. (Norton, $24.95.) A novel offers an anthropological look at the occupational rituals and argot of a group of Secret Service agents, who are in fact simply stressed-out working stiffs just like us, with the small difference that they are also charged with the continued well-being of the vice president.
BLESSINGS. By Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $24.95.) In this persuasive and gently humorous novel, the discovery of a newborn baby girl left in a cardboard box creates opportunities for redemption and renewal for the handyman who finds her and for the dowager on whose estate she was abandoned.
THE BOOK OF ILLUSIONS. By Paul Auster. (Holt, $24.) Metaphysics and mystery run free in this novel so full of levels that A narrates B narrating C narrating his own story, which is in a movie; the plot concerns a missing silent film comedian who has gone unmissing and a movie scholar who pursues him.
BY THE LAKE. By John McGahern. (Knopf, $24.) The sixth novel in 40 years of careful, lapidary production by this elegant Irish writer concerns the passage of a year in an unnamed Irish village, a couple who have returned to it and a community for which the biggest event of the entire year is the arrival of a telephone pole.
THE CADENCE OF GRASS. By Thomas McGuane. (Knopf, $24.) McGuane's first novel in 10 years shows, as his work in the 1970's did, people responding with comically awful behavior to a hostile but also zany universe; there is a plot, concerning some kind of infernal legacy, but the digressions the author can never resist are, fortunately, deft and funny no matter how irrelevant or inconsequential.
CAMOUFLAGE: Stories. By Murray Bail. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $20.) Fourteen stories by an Australian who invests his space in satire, not character; in one story people hold races on the partitions of their office cubicles, while in another a conceptual artist offers to document the existence of everyone alive.
CARAMELO. By Sandra Cisneros. (Knopf, $24.) A cheerful, fizzy novel whose heroine and narrator joins her large Mexican-American family in driving from Chicago to Mexico City and back every summer; colorful generalizations abound concerning the borders of language and culture that they cross when they must.
THE CAVE. By Jose Saramago. (Harcourt, $25.) The cave in mind is Plato's, where shadows pass for realities; the characters in Saramago's latest novel live in a complex where they work, shop and enjoy simulated experiences, victims not just of global capitalism but of their own eagerness to go along.
CENTURY'S SON. By Robert Boswell. (Knopf, $24.) The world rolls on in recrimination and mourning in this novel of four generations, the first represented by a Russian dissident full of falsehoods, the second an unhappy couple, the third an adolescent suicide and a 15-year-old mother.
CHILD OF MY HEART. By Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) In East Hampton, sometime in the early 1960's, the teenage narrator of McDermott's novel concentrates on a few summer days and a lot of baby-sitting; a growing awareness of the adult world and its risks is foreshadowed rather than understood or displayed.
A CHILD'S BOOK OF TRUE CRIME. By Chloe Hooper. (Scribner, $24.) An ambitious first novel by an Australian, in which an adulterous affair between a schoolteacher and a student's father runs parallel to an affair that ended in murder 20 years earlier. There is cause to be ill at ease, since the wronged wife in affair No. 1 has just published a book about affair No. 2.
THE COLLECTED STORIES. By Clare Boylan. (Counterpoint, paper, $16.50.) A fascination with things strange but true drives Boylan's shrewd plots; her settings range from the early Victorian period to Margaret Thatcher's Britain, but she is most at home among the working-class Irish of the 1960's and 70's.
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF ISAAC BABEL. Edited by Nathalie Babel. (Norton, $39.95.) The total product of the marvelous writer who tried to create a synthesis of the Russian, the Jewish, the literary and the revolutionary, a mix that bestowed life on his fiction but could not save him from death on Stalin's orders in 1940.
THE CRAZED. By Ha Jin. (Pantheon, $24.) A devoted student tries to untangle the stroke-induced ravings of his teacher in the months before the demonstrations at Tiananmen Square in a novel that gently underlines the hardships endured in contemporary China.
The Crimson Petal and the White. By Michel Faber. (Harcourt, $26.) A 19-year-old prostitute is the central character of this novel in which an empty and befouled late Victorian world is successfully confronted by nothing more than wit, determination and a good heart. The narrator, our educator and guide, examines the inner thoughts of the book's inhabitants until we learn to understand them for ourselves.
CROW LAKE. By Mary Lawson. (Dial, $23.95.) This ambitious first novel combines two standard motifs -- sudden orphanhood and rescue by an inspiring schoolteacher -- in an exploration of class and sibling rivalry, ennui and persistence, especially in the character of Kate Morrison, who rises against tall odds to an academic career she actually has little heart for.
DARLINGTON'S FALL: A Novel in Verse. By Brad Leithauser. (Knopf, $25.) A 5,700-line verse novel (10-line stanzas, irregularly rhymed) that invokes the "butterfly effect" of chaos mathematics: a butterfly's random passage starts Russel Darlington on the road to a career in lepidopterology; many years later, a second butterfly lures him to fall from a cliff, crippling him permanently.
THE DARTS OF CUPID: And Other Stories. By Edith Templeton. (Pantheon, $23.) The minutely observed social transactions and discriminating apercus in these stories by a writer who is now 85 are set in train by a kind of erotic attraction that the clinically minded would not hesitate to call sadomasochism.
THE DEAD CIRCUS. By John Kaye. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) Kaye's propensity for desolation governs this novel of a polluted Hollywood, where Gene Burk, a private investigator, pursues the death of a rockabilly star in a case that eventually leads through Burk's dead sweetheart to a lover of Charles Manson.
DECEMBER 6. By Martin Cruz Smith. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) The picaresque hero of Cruz's thriller, an American wheeler-dealer living in Tokyo on the eve of Pearl Harbor, uses his Zelig-like abilities in an effort to thwart Japan's war plans.
DESIRABLE DAUGHTERS. By Bharati Mukherjee. (Theia/Hyperion, $24.95.) In this shrewd, intellectual novel, an Americanized Bengali woman in San Francisco is forced to reckon at length with the culture she has cast aside when a man says he is the illegitimate son of her sister in New York.
THE DIVE FROM CLAUSEN'S PIER. By Ann Packer. (Knopf, $24.) Many a young person has come to New York for a restart; the narrator of this beguiling first novel, which is much concerned with the particularities of place and conduct, does it after a nitwit move by her fiance in Wisconsin renders him quadriplegic.
THE DOCTOR'S HOUSE. By Ann Beattie. (Scribner, $24.) Does less of minimalism mean more of something else? Beattie's novel explores at considerable length, in a prose that owes much to the language of therapy, a fraught relationship between a 40-ish woman whose husband is dead and her brother, a flagrant womanizer.
THE EMPEROR OF OCEAN PARK. By Stephen L. Carter. (Knopf, $26.95.) This debut novel by a Yale legal scholar centers on a dynastic black family, whose patriarch, forced to withdraw from consideration for the Supreme Court, has died (and, it appears, also lived) amid mysterious circumstances and rattling skeletons.
ENEMY WOMEN. By Paulette Jiles. (Morrow, $24.95.) Love crosses the lines in this Civil War novel set in dubious Missouri, where an 18-year-old spitfire of rebel attachments is the prisoner of a Union officer whose interrogation of her turns into a prison romance.
EVA'S COUSIN. By Sibylle Knauss. (Ballantine, $24.95.) A German novel based on facts about a cousin of Hitler's mistress, Eva Braun; Marlene, the protagonist and narrator, is called to keep Eva company in the fateful summer of 1944, and is soon observing the war's end from a lonely, weirdly endangered position.
EVERYTHING IS ILLUMINATED. By Jonathan Safran Foer. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) Alex, a Ukrainian lad whose love for everything American has infected his speech with an amazing thesaurus of near-miss English, narrates this novel about himself and Jonathan Safran Foer, who is visiting ancestral territory and working on a novel about a Ukrainian town where dozens of worthy themes usefully congregate.
FAIR WARNING. By Robert Olen Butler. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) This witty, airy novel fuses comedy of manners and of philosophy, realized in the life of a fine-arts auctioneer whose presentations, orgasmic necessities for her, are sheer performance, aimed at the cupidity and insecurity of her audiences.
FAMILY MATTERS. By Rohinton Mistry. (Knopf, $26.) Somebody has to care for a dying Parsi patriarch in Mistry's third novel, but the man's descendants are not up to it; maybe, the book suggests, family isn't what it used to be. The same seems true of Bombay, where this goes on against a background of social decay.
FEMALE TROUBLE: A Collection of Short Stories. By Antonya Nelson. (Scribner, $24.) Nelson's fourth collection, written in clear, muscular prose that endures depression, deals chiefly with distraught women in the act of returning somewhere, often to a childhood home, looking for a second chance.
FINGERSMITH. By Sarah Waters. (Riverhead, $25.95.) A fine Gothic ear is part of Waters's kit in this neo-Dickensian tale of a baby farmer and a foundling who is drawn into a fearful sexual intimacy as part of a scheme to defraud an heiress.
FRAGRANT HARBOR. By John Lanchester. (Marian Wood/Putnam, $25.95.) A novel of large scope, placed chiefly in Hong Kong in 1935 and after, undertaking big propositions: race, class, love, war and, perhaps most successfully, the transformation of a refugee community into one of the world's richest societies.
THE GOOD REMAINS. By Nani Power. (Grove, $24.) A fictional elegy for Ashland, Va., where a large cast of characters, brimming with life and goofiness, approaches the Christmas holiday; the central character, a baby doctor who dreams of ham and of the good old days, fails at actually cooking a ham.
GOULD'S BOOK OF FISH: A Novel in Twelve Fish. By Richard Flanagan. (Grove, $27.50.) Phantasmagoric energy propels this novel of Tasmanian wonders and horrors whose hero is based on an English convict, the author of a book on the local fish, who died trying to escape from a penal colony in 1831; the original Gould's illustrations appear.
GREAT DREAM OF HEAVEN: Stories. By Sam Shepard. (Knopf, $20.) Shepard's heaven is comfortably earthbound and can amount to no more than a painless life, as it does in this collection's title story about two old men whose daily pleasure it is to put on their Stetsons and walk to lunch at a Denny's somewhere near the Mojave.
HALF IN LOVE: Stories. By Maile Meloy. (Scribner, $23.) Fourteen stories, set mostly in the author's native Montana, among small-time racetracks and failed oil wells, where brides choose wedding dresses to hide branding-iron scars; no one expects an easy life here, and even the young feel their choices constrained by economics and losing habits.
HAZMAT: Poems. By J. D. McClatchy. (Knopf, $23.) Another collection by a poet who carries forward the strict, literate, exact tradition of Auden and James Merrill, but with a physical focus on bodily organs and products that preserves his fluency, exotic settings and intricate forms from aestheticism.
THE HEART OF REDNESS. By Zakes Mda. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A novel encompassing a black South African's critique of the cult of the new, presented as the combat between the forces of "progress" and those of tradition, all reflected from a defining religious schism in the Xhosa nation back in 1856-57.
THE HORNED MAN. By James Lasdun. (Norton, $24.95.) A psychological thriller that explores the interior motions of self-policing; the narrator, a dedicated member of his college's sexual harassment committee, finds that sexual desire has become bureaucratic maneuvering and dreads the escape of his thought-crimes into real-life action.
THE HOUSE OF BLUE MANGOES. By David Davidar. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) A polished first novel by the C.E.O. of Penguin India, the book tracks three generations of the Dorais, a Christian family from the south of India, across the first half of the 20th century, ending just before independence. 
HOUSE OF WOMEN. By Lynn Freed. (Little, Brown, $23.95.) Fairy-tale elements prevail in this novel in which a mother and a daughter fight to the death; Nalia, an opera singer and Holocaust survivor, reigns over Thea, who is quasi-abducted by a Bluebeardish Syrian in a narrative full of dream logic, psychoanalysis and the writing of journals for others to read.
THE IDEA OF PERFECTION. By Kate Grenville. (Viking, $24.95.) Two forlorn, wearied souls -- a shy engineer who fears heights and a rough, gruff textile artist and curator with three husbands behind her -- are exposed to each other in a small town in Australia, a burg so countrified they have only themselves to relate to.
I DON'T KNOW HOW SHE DOES IT: The Life of Kate Reddy, Working Mother. By Allison Pearson. (Knopf, $23.) The beleaguered heroine of this novel, a 35-year-old hedge fund manager in London, struggles madly with the world she has made, containing children, husband, work and worry, under high pressure.
IGNORANCE. By Milan Kundera. (HarperCollins, $23.95.) Variations on some of the author's usual themes -- betrayal and lost love, memory and forgetting, exile and return -- in a novel whose heroine returns to Prague after 20 years to find that her old friends have no use for her emigre life and no longer talk of victimization but of bourgeois success.
I'LL TAKE YOU THERE. By Joyce Carol Oates. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.95.) The nameless narrator of this daring novel (Oates's 38th) is a philosophy student out to disown her dysfunctional past by affixing herself to others and adopting their identities: first a group of sorority sisters and later a gifted black graduate student.
INTERESTING WOMEN: Stories. By Andrea Lee. (Random House, $22.95.) A lush collection of beautifully textured fiction, set mostly in Italy, where the author lives, and featuring American expatriate beauties, many of them black, in situations that are concerned with multiple ways of being foreign -- even in your own home, country or marriage.
IN THE FOREST. By Edna O'Brien. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) Though not wholly lacking in the adulterous impulse so fundamental to the characters in O'Brien's powerful evocations of Irish reality in the past, the principals in this novel are concerned with murder, madness and innocence in the backwoods of their island.
IN THE HAND OF DANTE. By Nick Tosches. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A novel in which Tosches first characterizes Dante as a good guy and great poet, then turns to the 21st century and a band of New York mobsters who have stolen the original manuscript of "The Divine Comedy"; they call upon a character named Tosches to authenticate the document.
JULY, JULY. By Tim O'Brien. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A 30th-anniversary reunion (belated) of the college class of 1969 draws together enough baby boomers in O'Brien's novel to account for the tumultuous sweep of history since their graduation.
JUST LIKE BEAUTY. By Lisa Lerner. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A captivating first novel that takes a surreal look at the buildup to a beauty pageant and a 14-year-old narrator's struggle to break free of its spell.
THE KEEPERS OF TRUTH. By Michael Collins. (Scribner, paper, $13.) A sharp, wry novel on the pitfalls and pleasures of American society, featuring a down-to-earth narrator from a seen-better-days city, and a mysterious disappearance; a finalist for Britain's Booker Prize in 2000.
THE LAST DREAM-O-RAMA: The Cars Detroit Forgot to Build, 1950-1960. By Bruce McCall. (Crown, $25.) A clever assortment of dream-car caricatures (a family car with a retractable patio, a Vegastar with a slot-machine gearshift, for example) forms this satirical glimpse at 1950's style, marked, in McCall's opinion, by "fatuousness, bad taste and shameless excess."
THE LAYING ON OF HANDS: Stories. By Alan Bennett. (Picador USA, $15.) Formerly known as one-quarter of the British comedy group Beyond the Fringe, Bennett serves up a volume of just three stories, all tender, caustic gems about lonely people, most in professions at once earnest and comic (podiatrists, masseurs, vicars).
LIFE OF PI. By Yann Martel. (Harcourt, $25.) A high-seas adventure tale with a large dose of allegory, in which Pi Patel, a teenage Indian boy, and a 450-pound tiger named Richard Parker become the only survivors of a shipwreck that swallowed a private zoo belonging to Pi's family.
LIMBO, AND OTHER PLACES I HAVE LIVED: Stories. By Lily Tuck. (HarperCollins, $22.95.) There is a distance at the heart of Tuck's collection of short stories about women searching for themselves: a woman fears becoming unrecognizable to her own family, husbands and wives drift apart in their intimacy. Exotic locations underscore the unity of Tuck's tone.
THE LITTLE FRIEND. By Donna Tartt. (Knopf, $26.) This lush novel about a Mississippi family at the end of a long decline into middle-class normalcy opens with a grisly murder -- a 9-year-old boy found hanging from a tupelo tree on Mother's Day -- and follows a strong-willed young heroine's crusade to seek out the people who killed her brother.
THE LOST GARDEN. By Helen Humphreys. (Norton, $23.95.) In this author's third novel, an awkward horticultural researcher of 35 leaves a blitzed London for the country to organize young women to grow food; there she expands horizontally in new acquaintances and vertically in some symbolically attractive gardens planted before 1914.
THE LOVELY BONES. By Alice Sebold. (Little, Brown, $21.95.) An accomplished first novel chronicling the aftermath of a girl's abduction and murder -- narrated by the victim, 14-year-old Susie Salmon; the bones that give the book its title belong not to Susie but to the inspiring connections that are forged after her death.
MALAISE. By Nancy Lemann. (Scribner, $24.) The author's fourth novel concerns the transplantation of Fleming Ford, a Southern woman, and her two small children into a California city where, for a while, old complaints about vapidity and sloth seem bright and new; but what's really at stake for Fleming is honoring her commitments and keeping her promises. Refreshing.
MARY GEORGE OF ALLNORTHOVER. By Lavinia Greenlaw. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A finely constructed first novel that unveils another eccentric from rural England: Mary George, a socially clumsy yet plucky teenage dreamer who overcomes obstacles (many of which she is oblivious of) by ignoring them.
THE METAL SHREDDERS. By Nancy Zafris. (BlueHen/Penguin Putnam, $24.95.) An entertaining, illuminating novel whose lead characters, a third-generation scrap dealer and his Wellesley graduate sister, struggle to run a business they do not love while observed by a father who shows no sign of loving them.
ME TIMES THREE. By Alex Witchel. (Knopf, $22.) A funny, if episodic, first novel, about the coming of age in the late 1980's of a 26-year-old fashion editor, her lovable but dense fiance, who is engaged to two other girls besides, and her best friend, a gay man with AIDS; by a style writer for The Times.
MIND CATCHER. By John Darnton. (Dutton, $25.95.) A cybernetic-anthropological thriller by the cultural news editor of The Times, in which two hubristic scientists attempt to connect a 13-year-old boy to a computer, thus combining human intelligence and computer speed.
THE MIRACLE. By John L'Heureux. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) A thoughtful novel in which a popular young Roman Catholic priest, transferred to the sticks for being too mod, sees a mother's prayer raise her daughter from the dead; in this he eventually sees the ancient truth that love can restore, renew and revive.
THE MONK DOWNSTAIRS. By Tim Farrington. (HarperSanFrancisco, $22.95.) A tender, witty novel in which a former monk, after 20 years in his order, rents an apartment from a 38-year-old single mother; the ensuing relationship proceeds cautiously, taking account of the prudence required of struggling people who aren't going to get that many more chances.
MORAL HAZARD. By Kate Jennings. (Fourth Estate, $21.95.) A business novel whose modest pace and poetic structure distinguish it from the traditional macho product, packed with hard fact and action; Jennings's purpose is ethical investigation and meditation on the "perilous, jerry-built" global financial markets.
A MULTITUDE OF SINS: Stories. By Richard Ford. (Knopf, $25.) Quite a few wrongs are done in these elegantly worded stories, although what prevails is generally adultery, often at the end of an affair or later, when it's too late to throw those dice again.
The Navigator of New York. By Wayne Johnston. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A bold novel centered on the competition between Robert E. Peary and Dr. Frederick A. Cook to be recognized as first man at the North Pole; to real life Johnston adds the fictional Devlin Stead, through whom we sense the engrossing white waste of the polar North and the flaws of its would-be heroes.
THE NERVE. By Glyn Maxwell. (Houghton Mifflin, $22.) A collection of largely low-key poems by an intelligent, sensitive writer, moving confidently toward expressions of common feeling in a voice conversational or false-naive, always sounding within earshot of the English lyric 
tradition.
NEW AND COLLECTED POEMS: 1931-2001. By Czeslaw Milosz. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $45.) In the winter of his 70-year career, Milosz appears to be locked in insoluble argument with himself: where he once credited poetry with the power to rescue mankind from the void, he now demurs, maintaining that language is inadequate to the task of capturing verity.
NINE HORSES: Poems. By Billy Collins. (Random House, $21.95.) The current national poet laureate, who produced these verses, is often able to proceed unburdened by many of the tools -- assonance, alliteration, wordplay, complex metrics -- that hang from the poet's belt; he makes his way in the world by being funny.
NOBLE NORFLEET. By Reynolds Price. (Scribner, $26.) What distinguishes the hero and title character of Price's novel is a sordid familiarity with death (his younger siblings were killed in their sleep by their mother) and sex (one proclivity in particular drives away the women willing to love him).
NO SAINTS OR ANGELS. By Ivan Klima. (Grove, $24.) The personal and the political are inseparable in Klima's newest novel, in which a Prague dentist, daughter of a zealous bureaucrat of the former regime, determines that the hate mail she has been receiving originates with a half brother previously unknown to her.
NOTHING THAT MEETS THE EYE: The Uncollected Stories of Patricia Highsmith. By Patricia Highsmith. (Norton, $27.95.) A collection of 28 of Highsmith's previously unanthologized suspense stories, written mostly in the late 1940's and early 50's.
NO WAY TO TREAT A FIRST LADY. By Christopher Buckley. (Random House, $24.95.) Buckley's sendup of political sex scandals in the age of constant media takes the form of a legal thriller; accused of assassinating her wayward husband, the first lady denies having done it, but whatever she did is secondary to the heroic proportions of the trial that ensues.
OXYGEN. By Andrew Miller. (Harcourt, $24.) In this unusually artful novel, the author, who never really hides his presence, combines two stories that are long and curious in their discovery of each other: one about an Englishwoman with a terminal cancer and her two sons, and another concerning a gay Hungarian playwright who is burdened by regret for his actions during the revolution of 1956.
PALLADIO. By Jonathan Dee. (Doubleday, $24.95.) Dee, a courageous novelist of ideas, takes on morals, lost love and the art of selling in this story about a beautiful (and passive) woman and two advertising executives who differ about the power of the viewer over the thing viewed.
PARADISE ALLEY. By Kevin Baker. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) A scary, convincing novel steeped in historical fact and set in the New York City of July 1863, when 119 died in three days of rioting against the draft, chiefly by Irish immigrants who feared losing their jobs to the slaves they were being called on to free.
THE PIANO TUNER. By Daniel Mason. (Knopf, $24.) A first novel whose alert, responsive, confused, generous hero is a London piano tuner, selected by the War Office in 1886 to trek into the backest beyond of Burma to service the piano of a (possibly mad) British surgeon and proconsul.
THE PICKUP. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A chance meeting between a rich, white, South African woman and an immigrant from a Muslim country turns into a love affair that suggests two cultures in quest of each other and the uses of mutual incomprehension for mutual attraction.
POEMS SEVEN: New and Complete Poetry. By Alan Dugan. (Seven Stories, $35.) A big volume by a major poet (it won a National Book Award last year) whose life work is adult matter, full of conviction, void of poses; its great theme is human pettiness exposed yet dignified by mortality.
POLAR. By T. R. Pearson. (Viking, $24.95.) A quietly unsettling, darkly satirical Southern novel, whose hero, an old rural Virginia reprobate, inexplicably acquires oracular familiarity with the Antarctic and knowledge about a little girl's unsolved disappearance.
PRAGUE. By Arthur Phillips. (Random House, $24.95.) A first novel set in 1990, far beyond the recently fallen Berlin Wall, where young Americans reveal themselves not as travelers but mere tourists, detached from their surroundings, weightless and immaterial among time-battered buildings and people who have survived wars and uprisings.
RAPTURE. By Susan Minot. (Knopf, $18.) The action of this brief novel is a single act of oral sex, but its life is found in memories of a doomed affair and the thoughts of Kay and Benjamin, its partners; they know each other well, but not what is happening between them.
THE REAL McCOY. By Darin Strauss. (Dutton, $24.95.) An ambitious, thought-infested novel placed at the turn of the last century, in which a boxer who is also a confidence man helps America round the corner to a new world of mass communications, celebrity, product endorsement and the makeover.
THE RETURN OF THE CARAVELS. By Antonio Lobo Antunes. (Grove, $24.) Portugal's history as an imperial power literally comes home in this novel of collective memory set in 1974; Vasco da Gama, Cabral and Francis Xavier are back in Lisbon, raising hell and anchoring their puny vessels alongside tankers.
REVERSIBLE ERRORS. By Scott Turow. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $28.) Kindle County surges to life again in Turow's richly characterized thriller, which revolves around a reluctant pro bono lawyer's efforts to overturn a black man's murder conviction, despite his confession, and free him from death row.
THE ROTTERS' CLUB. By Jonathan Coe. (Knopf, $24.95.) A fictional British panorama of the early stages of the transformation wrought on Britain by Margaret Thatcher (another volume is to come); its central figures, not quite finished, are chiefly university-bound students at a school in Birmingham.
THE RUSSIAN DEBUTANTE'S HANDBOOK. By Gary Shteyngart. (Riverhead, $24.95.) An energetic, ambitious first novel whose protagonist, a Russian-born graduate of an American college, tries to figure out what it means to be an American, a Russian, an immigrant, a Jew; a great deal of splendid comedy hangs on his inability to find out.
THE SEAL WIFE. By Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $23.95.) In this thickly atmospheric novel, set in 1915 Alaska, Harrison characteristically combines love and suffering, vulnerability and dominance, in a sexual affair between a young weather scientist and an Aleutian woman who almost never speaks.
SEARCHING FOR INTRUDERS: A Novel in Stories. By Stephen Raleigh Byler. (Morrow, $23.95.) Some confident, ruefully funny pieces in a mode (one far from exhausted, as Byler shows) established by Raymond Carver and Richard Ford, exploring what might be called post-postmacho manhood.
the season of lillian dawes. By Katherine Mosby. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) Nothing can prepare even upper-crust New York for the arrival of the title character, who is, alphabetically, Francophone, horsewoman, markswoman, naturalist, painter, psychologist, scholar, tango dancer and -- zounds! -- attractive to boot.
THE SECRET. By Eva Hoffman. (PublicAffairs, $25.) A notable memoirist and critic of consistent sensitivity and broad erudition turns to fiction in this novel whose protagonist is the single daughter of a single parent, living in the Midwest some 25 years in the future; cracking the secrets of her birth sends her questing for the meaning of her life.
SEEK MY FACE. By John Updike. (Knopf, $23.) Updike mixes art history with fiction in a story, recollected later by its hero's widow, of how in the decade after World War II American artists, led by Jackson Pollock (here called Zack McCoy), seized power from Europe and made New York the center of the art world.
SELECTED POEMS, 1957-1994. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, cloth, $35; paper, $15.) With poems that are characteristically alert to the processes of creation as well as self-destruction, this selection displays Hughes's mighty, even terrifying, talent.
SERVANTS OF THE MAP: Stories. By Andrea Barrett. (Norton, $24.95.) A collection of stories complete in themselves but linked by threads of association or neighborhood or interest or family into a kind of imaginative collaboration that covers most of the last two centuries, always inhabited by characters who share a passionate interest in figuring out how things work.
THE SEVEN SISTERS. By Margaret Drabble. (Harcourt, $25.) A novelist whose work has considered primarily the issues of her own generation now employs a protagonist in her 60's who begins a new life, estranged from husband and daughters, undertaking a voyage in the wake of Virgil's Aeneas from Carthage to Naples.
THE SHELL COLLECTOR: Stories. By Anthony Doerr. (Scribner, $23.) Hunting and being hunted, holding on and letting go are the themes that govern this skillful first collection, inhabited by people apt to fall in love with a magician's assistant or run away with a metal eater from a traveling carnival.
THE SIEGE. By Helen Dunmore. (Grove, $24.) A powerful, well-researched novel (Dunmore's seventh) that follows a young woman and her family during the siege of Leningrad in 1941.
A SIMPLE HABANA MELODY: (From When the World Was Good). By Oscar Hijuelos. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The protagonist of Hijuelos's sixth novel is a Cuban composer so decorous his cross is an inability to act on, or even articulate, his deepest passions, accumulating a lifetime of repression and regret.
SIN KILLER: The Berrybender Narratives, Book 1. By Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) This irresistible tale, the first of a planned tetralogy, full of blood, blunder and myth, follows the fate of an upper-crust British family that attempts to explore the Western frontier (circa 1830) with a huge traveling menage.
SLOAN-KETTERING: Poems. By Abba Kovner. (Schocken, $17.) A final collection, now translated into English, by the Israeli poet and partisan (1918-87) who organized and led the Vilna ghetto uprising in World War II; at the end of his life, he chronicles his losing battle with cancer in a cycle dedicated to the struggle for existence, naming the collection after the New York cancer center where he was treated.
SPIES. By Michael Frayn. (Metropolitan/Holt, $23.) The 10th novel by this master of the intellectual mystery masquerading as popular entertainment concerns a London suburb where, if memory serves the narrator, the phases of the moon govern events during World War II and an alleged spy's conduct visibly contradicts the everyday space-time continuum.
SPRING FLOWERS, SPRING FROST. By Ismail Kadare. (Arcade, $23.95.) A murky, capricious novel by an Albanian who lives in France; it deals with an Albania now open to the world in principle but still separated from everywhere else by its legends, hallucinations and fantasies, and by the return of the blood-feud code that Communism had suppressed.
SPRINGING: New and Selected Poems. By Marie Ponsot. (Knopf, $25.) A love poet, a metaphysician and a formalist, Ponsot cultivates an eccentricity that allows her to make her moral points epigrammatically or on the sly; this is her fifth book of poems, the product of a long life and intelligent pruning.
THE STORIES OF ALICE ADAMS. (Knopf, $30.) Fifty-three stories from four decades by a writer who died in 1999; apparently traditional in their omniscient third-person narration, they fill the space behind the scenes with imagination and implications about what people want and why it turns to ashes when they get it.
THE STORY OF LUCY GAULT. By William Trevor. (Viking, $24.95.) National and private heartache suffuses this novel that begins with a dreadful mistake committed during the partition of Ireland, when an Anglo-Irish couple, falsely believing their child is dead, disappear untraceably, leaving the girl to a solitary life.
THE STRENGTH OF THE SUN. By Catherine Chidgey. (Holt, $23.) A fascinating novel in which widely separated simultaneous events -- a girl's disappearance, a scholar's leaving his wife -- develop or discover connections in a sort of quantum-mechanics way that seems to explore the idea of connectedness itself.
SUMMER IN BADEN-BADEN. By Leonid Tsypkin. (New Directions, $23.95.) An extraordinary novel by a Soviet Jewish doctor who died unpublished in 1982; its hero is Dostoyevsky, and its central enigma is the anti-Semitism of a great writer whose fiction is profoundly sensitive to human suffering and the pain of others, proclaiming the right to life and sunshine of every creature not Jewish.
THE SWEETEST DREAM. By Doris Lessing. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) A novel, clearly autobiographical but far from self-invasive, omitting the author's involvements with psychology and mysticism in favor of a kind of fable that can contain Communism, personal freedom and the doing of good in southern Africa.
TELL ME: 30 Stories. By Mary Robison. (Counterpoint, paper, $14.) Selected stories covering the past 25 years of Robison's career, with characters -- suburban and Midwestern for the most part -- who are often caught in brief unguarded moments that reveal a great deal about their lives.
10TH GRADE. By Joseph Weisberg. (Random House, $23.95.) A first novel, told in the voice and mentality of Jeremy Reskin, a high school sophomore whose perception is sometimes wasted on his ordinariness, but who renders well the supreme importance of social distinctions and the misery of teenage self-analysis.
TEPPER ISN'T GOING OUT. By Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $22.95.) A Manhattan driver, the hero of this novel, seeks the island's best parking spaces and occupies them, sitting and reading while the meter runs; his offhand concentration makes him a kind of Zen saint and leads to a struggle with a mayor whose rage for order suggests Rudolph W. Giuliani.
THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW: A Collection of Stories. By A. M. Homes. (HarperCollins, $23.95.) Short stories by an author sometimes accused of the gratuitous grotesque; but the strangeness she deploys is often in perfect balance with the heart of the character who displays it in little tragedies, wild aspirations and surprisingly warm satires of family life.
THIS COLD COUNTRY. By Annabel Davis-Goff. (Harcourt, $25.) As a young war bride packed off to the country, this novel's heroine faces her own battle on the home front against her new in-laws, members of the Anglo-Irish bourgeoisie whose insularity and creaking conventionalism portend genteel self-destruction.
THREE JUNES. By Julia Glass. (Pantheon, $25.) Braiding together three summers (1989, '95 and '99), this debut novel explores the idea of emotional isolation as it moves, fittingly, across a series of islands -- off Scotland, Greece and the coast of New Jersey -- to chronicle a scattered, multigenerational Scottish family.
TISHOMINGO BLUES. By Elmore Leonard. (Morrow, $25.95.) Leonard's latest cinema-ready tale is riotously funny, featuring a high-diving protagonist in Tunica, Miss.; the rural Mafiosi who want him whacked; quixotic supporting characters aplenty; and a Civil War re-enactment of the less-than-epic Battle of Brice's Cross Roads.
TOURMALINE. By Joanna Scott. (Little, Brown, $23.95.) Reconstructing his father's search for gems in the soil of Elba, the principal narrator of this novel of ideas discovers as well how the past is extracted from materials like gossip, superstition and marital distrust.
THE TRANSLATOR. By John Crowley. (Morrow, $24.95.) A college student's crush on a Soviet poet in the 1960's serves to support this novel's fictional world full of conspiracy theories and paranoia but sustained with far nobler stuff: poetry, the souls of nations, the transforming power of language.
TWELVE. By Nick McDonell. (Grove, $23.) This accomplished first novel by an 18-year-old tracks the dissolute behavior of some rich kids returning home for the Christmas holidays; its protagonist is a boy called White Mike, who gives up his subway seat to elderly women and neither smokes nor drinks; what he does is deal drugs, in company with characters whose lives converge at a single calamitous party.
2182 KHZ. By David Masiel. (Random House, $22.95.) A confidently anarchic first novel whose title refers to the international distress channel for mariners in trouble; most of it happens at sea off Alaska, and the chief victim of the happenings is a likable unfortunate who has spent a decade working the Arctic and becomes the only survivor of a disaster wrought by a captain who screams at his crew, "Do Things!"
UNLESS. By Carol Shields. (Fourth Estate, $24.95.) "The useful monotony of happiness" is what's missing for Reta, a writer whose eldest daughter, Norah, has taken to sitting and begging on a downtown street corner; Reta's response and the author's tone, measured and calm, are of greater interest than Norah's withdrawal itself.
UNSUNG HEROES OF AMERICAN INDUSTRY: Stories. By Mark Jude Poirier. (Talk Miramax, $22.) A light pathos pervades this nimble collection of stories about men and women in dying industries (worm breeding, for example). 
THE VARIETIES OF ROMANTIC EXPERIENCE: Stories. By Robert Cohen. (Scribner, $23.) Cohen's first collection of stories is as lyrical as it is economical, closely associating love and desire with existential confusion.
VERSAILLES. By Kathryn Davis. (Houghton Mifflin, $21.) A reflective, mysterious novel about human development; it takes a soul's-eye view of the life of Marie Antoinette from her marriage at 14 to the guillotine at 38; narrated by herself sometime after her death, when she has had a chance to think some about her earthly life and its contents.
walk through darkness. By David Anthony Durham. (Doubleday, $23.95.) Odysseys run on two parallel tracks in this novel: that of a fugitive slave making his perilous way from Maryland to Philadelphia, and that of the dissolute Scotsman hired to track him down.
WAVEMAKER II. By Mary-Beth Hughes. (Atlantic Monthly, $23.) The title of this politically imaginative first novel is the name of a boat belonging to Roy Cohn, who appears, impetuous and sentimental, human and controversial, at the top of a pyramid of enterprise supported, to his cost, by Will Clemens, a loyal young executive, and his loyal wife.
THE WEATHER IN BERLIN. By Ward Just. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) In this novel by a skilled observer of America's top people, a burned-out movie director of 64, visiting an arty institution in the reborn Berlin, finds himself brooding on the past to the disadvantage of the future, becoming a sort of spiritual and psychological German.
WHEN THE EMPEROR WAS DIVINE. By Julie Otsuka. (Knopf, $18.) This muted first novel seeks to find and articulate what life really felt like to a family of Japanese-Americans relocated during World War II, and to convey the mood of our country under stress from the viewpoint of some genuinely oppressed people.
THE WHORE'S CHILD: And Other Stories. By Richard Russo. (Knopf, $24.) In these short stories the author of "Empire Falls," this year's Pulitzer Prize novel, abandons working-class settings and protagonists in favor of intellectuals caught in late middle age, worried about illness and ambivalent about marriage.
WIDE BLUE YONDER. By Jean Thompson. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) Happiness is permitted in this novel about a mother and her daughter who survive a hot summer in Springfield, Ill., despite the intrusions of troublesome characters; by the end, the mother has seen in the daughter her own power to be kind, insightful and brave.
THE WINTER ZOO. By John Beckman. (Holt, $25.) The hero of this first novel, a young man newly arrived in Poland from Iowa, trades his naivete for lessons in youthfulness; Beckman captures the rush of freshly liberated desires in post-Communist Europe, making his climactic scene a pansexual orgy in a Krakow hotel.
WISH YOU WERE HERE. By Stewart O'Nan. (Grove, $25.) An equal-opportunity novel told from the perspectives of the members of three generations of the Maxwell family as they contemplate and develop the injuries and grudges of many years during a week's vacation -- their last -- at their summer cottage in western New York.
WITHOUT END: New and Selected Poems. By Adam Zagajewski. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A new anthology by a poet who was a 1970's dissident in Poland, where words are weighted with history that takes them beyond their lexical meanings and things are frequently renamed; this volume contains three previous English collections, recent work and some new translations of earlier poems.
YOU ARE NOT A STRANGER HERE. By Adam Haslett. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $21.95.) These nine short stories (Haslett's first collection) exhale a desiccated bleakness, a despair mitigated by the characters' desire to be good, to do the right thing despite hopelessness, loss, disease and frequent mental illness.
YOU SHALL KNOW OUR VELOCITY. By Dave Eggers. (McSweeney's, $22.) Eggers's first novel (son of "A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius") takes place in frantic motion as a pair of 27-year-old semi-slackers are projected by the violent death of their best friend into exploring all the world they can get to.
NONFICTION
THE AGE OF SACRED TERROR. By Daniel Benjamin and Steven Simon. (Random House, $25.95.) The authors, both staff members of the National Security Council in the Clinton administration, give an account of bureaucratic inertia in antiterrorist efforts before Sept. 11, with the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and the military reluctant to share information or work with one another.
AMBLING INTO HISTORY: The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush. By Frank Bruni. (HarperCollins, $23.95.) Bruni, who covered the Bush candidacy at length for The Times, concentrates on Bush's personality and mannerisms, which he renders as oddly prankish and frivolous for a politician, at least until grounded by the events of Sept. 11.
AMERICAN GROUND: Unbuilding the World Trade Center. By William Langewiesche. (North Point/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A reporter's account of dismantling the trade center's ruins, an engineering project that came in ahead of schedule; the many fine performances adduced permit the author to skewer greed and selfishness when he sees them.
AMERICAN SCOUNDREL: The Life of the Notorious Civil War General Dan Sickles. By Thomas Keneally. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $27.50.) A frequently spellbinding recitation of the career of a totally awful politician, crook, adulterer and murderer who was no good as a general either.
AMERICA'S FIRST DYNASTY: The Adamses, 1735-1918. By Richard Brookhiser. (Free Press, $25.) A succinct, skillful account of the lives of John, John Quincy, Charles Francis and Henry, four generations of men often brilliant but often shortsighted as well: two presidents, one diplomat and, finally, a historian who felt he had failed the ancestors.
AMONG THE HEROES: United Flight 93 and the Passengers and Crew Who Fought Back. By Jere Longman. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) Longman, a Times reporter, powerfully reconstructs the final moments of United Flight 93, the hijacked airliner that crashed outside Shanksville, Pa., on Sept. 11, 2001, and argues that the plane's occupants were not passive victims but defiant combatants.
BAD ELEMENTS: Chinese Rebels From Los Angeles to Beijing. By Ian Buruma. (Random House, $27.95.) Conversations with Chinese dissidents around the world, beginning in the West and concluding in parts of China; they show a widespread desire for democracy that is not necessarily adapted to prevail.
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. By Edmund S. Morgan. (Yale University, $24.95.) A distinguished historian gives us a Franklin highly clubbable yet vigorous in the exercise of civic virtue; not at first eager to throw off the Hanoverian yoke, he maneuvered France into joining our war with its wealth and its navy.
BIG GAME, SMALL WORLD: A Basketball Adventure. By Alexander Wolff. (Warner, $24.95.) A senior writer for Sports Illustrated explores the world of international basketball, a sport far more popular than many Americans realize, from Bhutan to Lithuania and back.
THE BIRDS OF HEAVEN: Travels With Cranes. By Peter Matthiessen. (North Point, $27.50.) A veteran celebrant of nature's provision and a travel writer who defies every element searches out the world's 15 (11 endangered) species of cranes, observing with great passion and scrupulous attention to detail; splendidly illustrated by Robert Bateman.
BLACK LIVINGSTONE: A True Tale of Adventure in the Nineteenth-Century Congo. By Pagan Kennedy. (Viking, $24.95.) A charming, intelligent venture in biography; the writer's interest in William Henry Sheppard, a black missionary in 19th-century Africa, began when she learned that he was a fellow Virginia Presbyterian.
THE BLACK VEIL: A Memoir With Digressions. By Rick Moody. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Recollections of 29 days the author spent in a psychiatric hospital in Queens 15 years ago, crazily apprehensive of sexual assault, woven into a tour of Maine looking (in vain) for plausible connections between his family and Hawthorne's black-veiled minister.
THE BLANK SLATE: The Modern Denial of Human Nature. By Steven Pinker. (Viking, $27.95.) Pinker, a psychologist at M.I.T., proposes that human nature is largely genetically fixed and attempts to destroy the "blank slate" theory with an arsenal of scientific research, acute analysis and attitude.
BLOOD-DARK TRACK: A Family History. By Joseph O'Neill. (Granta, $27.95.) A smart, diligent inquiry into the World War II era and the (possibly culpable) activities of the author's grandfathers, one a Turk interned by the British in Palestine, the other an I.R.A. officer, perhaps a murderer.
BLUE LATITUDES: Boldly Going Where Captain Cook Has Gone Before. By Tony Horwitz. (Holt, $26.) Horwitz cheerfully pursues James Cook's hugely successful 18th-century voyages of discovery in the Pacific and in doing so considers how becoming part of the "known world" changed the discoverees. 
BREAKING CLEAN. By Judy Blunt. (Knopf, $24.) An account, delicately eloquent when it's not scary, of 12 years as a ranch wife, mother and overstressed laborer in Montana; the author, who was virtually unconsulted about her career choice up to this point, arose one day and scrammed.
BROWN: The Last Discovery of America. By Richard Rodriguez. (Viking, $24.95.) The final volume in Rodriguez's trilogy of memoirs exploring the American predicament turns on the concept of brown "not in the sense of pigment" but in the sense of mixed, unclear, fluid, dissolving boundaries like race, class and country.
THE CELL: Inside the 9/11 Plot, and Why the FBI and CIA Failed to Stop It. By John Miller and Michael Stone with Chris Mitchell. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The real good guys in this story about the chain of events leading up to 9/11 -- and the opportunities missed along the way -- are the blue-collar detectives who were convinced something big was in the works but were stymied by a sluggish intelligence bureaucracy.
CHARLES DARWIN. The Power of Place: Volume II of a Biography. By Janet Browne. (Knopf, $37.50.) The second half of a portrait of Darwin and the Victorian habitat that enabled his work but paradoxically rejected its content, though honoring him as Britain's greatest scientist.
CHERRY: A Life of Apsley Cherry-Garrard. By Sara Wheeler. (Random House, $26.95.) An authoritative evocation of the English amateur explorer who was permanently bemused by his two years with Scott in the Antarctic and wrote a classic book about them, "The Worst Journey in the World."
CHRIST: A Crisis in the Life of God. By Jack Miles. (Knopf, $26.95.) The author of "God: A Biography" (1995) continues his examination of God strictly as a literary character -- a complex, contradictory one who learns about himself from his interactions with humans; in becoming one himself, God accepts and expiates his guilt for his errors since the Creation.
COMPLICATIONS: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science. By Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.) Gawande, who is both a surgeon and a staff writer for The New Yorker, looks clearly and coolly at the limits and defects of medicine, which, he says, may be the most complex of human endeavors.
THE CONQUERORS: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945. By Michael Beschloss. (Simon & Schuster, $26.95.) Franklin Delano Roosevelt -- brilliant, charming, unpredictable and dying -- dominates this vigorously written history of the Allies' plan for rebuilding Germany after the war.
A COOK'S TOUR: In Search of the Perfect Meal. By Anthony Bourdain. (Bloomsbury, $22.95.) An amusing account of the author's global search for the "perfect mix of food and context" that takes the reader to the culinary corners of the earth: from Vietnam (a live cobra heart) and Japan (poisonous blowfish) to England (roasted bone marrow) and Scotland (deep-fried Mars bar). 
THE COUNT AND THE CONFESSION: A True Mystery. By John Taylor. (Random House, $24.95.) An anxiety-enhancing, doubt-engendering report about the murder (or suicide) of a prosperous social climber in Virginia and the conviction (or railroading) of a woman who had been his lover; by the author of "Storming the Magic Kingdom."
THE DEMON IN THE FREEZER: A True Story. By Richard Preston. (Random House, $24.95.) Preston, whose 1994 book "The Hot Zone" made his name synonymous with troublesome microbes, turns his focus from the Ebola virus to another, potentially even more lethal microbial disaster -- a bioterrorist attack with the smallpox virus.
DON'T LET'S GO TO THE DOGS TONIGHT: An African Childhood. By Alexandra Fuller. (Random House, $24.95.) A memoir from the "bad side" of African history, presented with plenty of wit and no apologies, by a woman whose family, seeking to escape black rule, batted around several former colonies, surrounded by watchdogs, booze and tragedy.
DOT.CON: The Greatest Story Ever Sold. By John Cassidy. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A history of the dot-com bubble by a financial writer for The New Yorker, with insightful observations about the Federal Reserve and severe views on its chairman, Alan Greenspan.
THE DOUBLE BOND. Primo Levi: A Biography. By Carole Angier. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $40.) This life of the author, chemist and Auschwitz survivor sprang from two equally necessary processes of creation: inductive, which illuminates the radiant work, and deductive (Levi's family declined to talk), which conjures up the intensely private man in all his resilient melancholy.
A DOUBLE THREAD: Growing Up English and Jewish in London. By John Gross. (Ivan R. Dee, $23.50.) A delightful memoir of life to the age of 18 in London before, during and after World War II, and a paean to the author's family, itself major delightful; Gross, who grew up to be an eminent British man of letters, recalls never suffering on account of being Jewish.
THE DRESSING STATION: A Surgeon's Chronicle of War and Medicine. By Jonathan Kaplan. (Grove, $25.) An unusual memoir by a white South African surgeon whose sense of adventure has led to work on the battlefields of Kurdistan, Eritrea, Myanmar and Mozambique -- and aboard a cruise ship.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER. By Tom Wicker. (Times Books/Holt, $20.) This volume in Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s American Presidents series holds Eisenhower's accomplishments up against the two major issues of his time: the cold war and civil rights. Wicker, a former reporter and columnist at The Times, likes the man more than his policies.
EDISON'S EVE: A Magical History of the Quest for Mechanical Life. By Gaby Wood. (Knopf, $24.) Ever since Enlightenment philosophers conceived of men and animals as machines, clever people have found reasons and means to enforce the idea; this book presents notable automatons, both genuine and fake, down to Thomas Edison's time.
EISENHOWER: A Soldier's Life. By Carlo D'Este. (John Macrae/Holt, $35.) A very thick book about an ambitious, self-confident man; it explores adeptly the events in 1944-45 that tested the limits of Eisenhower's abilities, which were enormous as to organization and political sensitivity but not as to strategic skills.
ELEANOR AND HARRY: The Correspondence of Eleanor Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman. Edited by Steve Neal. (Lisa Drew/Scribner, $26.) Truman and Franklin D. Roosevelt's widow needed each other badly for their own agendas; these 254 letters show a mutual wariness that never ceased, but growing respect and admiration as well. 
EMMA'S WAR. By Deborah Scroggins. (Pantheon, $25.) Scroggins builds her suspenseful account of the continuing Sudanese civil war around the short life of Emma McCune -- a beautiful, adventurous and recklessly passionate aid worker -- and sheds light on the greater European dreams, delusions and failures in the African country.
THE ENGLISHMAN'S DAUGHTER: A True Story of Love and Betrayal in World War I. By Ben Macintyre. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A remarkable excavation of an improbable incident, the concealment for a year and a half in a French village of some stranded British soldiers, one of them the father of a local woman the author met there in 1997.
FIREHOUSE. By David Halberstam. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A journalist's homage to firefighters, their values, their culture and their courage during the martyrdom imposed on the New York Fire Department by the catastrophe of the attack on the World Trade Center.
FIRST GREAT TRIUMPH: How Five Americans Made Their Country a World Power. By Warren Zimmermann. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A career diplomat's brilliantly readable book on the Spanish-American War and its aftermath, and on the men who used the occasion to gain control of 10 million people of nearly all races and an island empire: Theodore Roosevelt, Henry Cabot Lodge, John Hay, Elihu Root and Alfred T. Mahan.
THE FLY SWATTER: How My Grandfather Made His Way in the World. By Nicholas Dawidoff. (Pantheon, $26.) Dawidoff's captivating family memoir is a tribute to his twice-exiled grandfather, the Harvard economist Alexander Gerschenkron, retracing his tortuous path to Cambridge and recounting the intellectual passion that earned Gerschenkron the title "the last man with all known knowledge."
THE FUTURE OF LIFE. By Edward O. Wilson. (Knopf, $22.) This distinguished biologist proposes that there is yet time to avoid a grand planetary environmental crash provided we get serious, acknowledge a duty of stewardship and recognize an emotional affiliation (biophilia, as he calls it) with other kinds of life.
THE FUTURE OF THE PAST. By Alexander Stille. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A smart, engaging consideration of how hard and how important it is to maintain a collective memory through the preservation of monuments and artifacts, the care of libraries, the recording of cultural systems, the preservation of breathing spaces.
THE GATEKEEPERS: Inside the Admissions Process of a Premier College. By Jacques Steinberg. (Viking, $25.95.) Steinberg, a national education correspondent for The Times, was able to follow the procedures at Wesleyan University for a year and see how the admissions process really looks, to the admitters as well as the applicants. He found it strenuous for all concerned, and not getting easier.
GENES, GIRLS, AND GAMOW: After the Double Helix. By James D. Watson. (Knopf, $26.) A priceless glimpse into the intellectual circle, and the campus coed distractions, that nurtured the revolutionary paradigm discovered by Watson and his collaborator Francis Crick.
GENIUS: A Mosaic of One Hundred Exemplary Creative Minds. By Harold Bloom. (Warner, $35.95.) Not your usual literary critic, Bloom; he arrives at his judgments through broad comparisons rather than close textual scrutiny (too bad for you if you haven't read everything yet), but his enthusiasm, his gigantic assertions and his religious fervor have the power to trample unbelief to dust.
GRACEFULLY INSANE: The Rise and Fall of America's Premier Mental Hospital. By Alex Beam. (PublicAffairs, $26.) In its putatively mind-healthy bucolic setting, McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass., sheltered the well-born and the articulate bewildered for a couple of centuries; this entertaining narrative is short on the real desolation of mental illness but copious as to anecdote and changing clinical fashions.
HART CRANE: A Life. By Clive Fisher. (Yale University, $39.95.) A penetrating, absorbing biography of the American poet, a sensation in his teens, who ended his own life at 32; the author, a British critic, captures the loneliness and pathos of Crane's existence and places his poems where the life illuminates them.
HEART OF A SOLDIER: A Story of Love, Heroism, and September 11th. By James B. Stewart. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A rendering, in precise and careful prose, of the life and death of Rick Rescorla, director of security for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Lower Manhattan on Sept. 11. Rescorla, an old soldier, helped direct 2,700 people down the stairs of 2 World Trade Center to safety and was last seen on the 10th floor, climbing.
HIGH AND MIGHTY: SUVs -- The World's Most Dangerous Vehicles and How They Got That Way. By Keith Bradsher. (PublicAffairs, $28.) The author, a former Detroit correspondent of The Times, devotes statistics, indignation and a how-things-work comprehension of the internal combustion monster to an argument that the S.U.V. is bad for your health.
HIS INVENTION SO FERTILE: A Life of Christopher Wren. By Adrian Tinniswood. (Oxford University, $35.) A capable, workmanlike biography of the rebuilder of St. Paul's Cathedral and renewer of 56 churches destroyed in the Great Fire of London in 1666.
A HOUSE UNLOCKED. By Penelope Lively. (Grove, $23.) An English country house, where Lively herself spent much of her adolescence, becomes a historical landscape, dramatizing the generations that owned it and illuminating, from its gong stands to its napkin rings, centuries of change and upheaval.
HOW TO BE ALONE: Essays. By Jonathan Franzen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Thirteen smart pieces, dated from 1994 to 2001, all recording a sensibility in endless conflict with the world around it and with itself, concerned with the contradictions and ambivalences a novelist usually embodies in imaginary people.
IN RUINS. By Christopher Woodward. (Pantheon, $24.) A historian's learned, eclectic approach to the spooky gratification (known to Henry James and Rose Macaulay) that comes with contemplating the collapse of presumptuousness past, the wreck of vanished wealth, importance and influence. The examples, all European, begin and end in Italy.
IN THE DEVIL'S SNARE: The Salem Witchcraft Crisis of 1692. By Mary Beth Norton. (Knopf, $30.) A historian seeks to restore the witchcraft panic to its context, much of which consisted of the terrifying Indian wars of late-17th-century New England; the society that tried witches in 1692 was living on the edge of hysteria already, from natural political events we find it hard to recall.
IRIS ORIGO: Marchesa of Val d'Orcia. By Caroline Moorehead. (Godine, $35.) A fascinating biography of a remarkable woman, an Anglo-American heiress who became the lady of a big estate in Tuscany, where she knew everybody, worked hard, taught peasants to read, helped people escape Fascism and wrote beautifully on many subjects.
ISADORA: A Sensational Life. By Peter Kurth. (Little, Brown, $29.95.) The meteoric trajectory of Isadora Duncan, the American free spirit who more or less invented modern dance; astonished audiences throughout the first quarter of the 20th century; and lost two children in a strange automobile accident, then her own life in an even stranger one.
JAMES MADISON. By Garry Wills. (Times Books/Holt, $20.) The fourth president of the United States -- who can remember him? A solid, subtle, ingenious contributor to the Constitutional Convention of 1787, Madison seemed ineffectual after his election to the top magistracy in 1808; Wills attributes his failings to provincialism, naivete and a preference for the arts of legislation over the drive of leadership.
JAY'S JOURNAL OF ANOMALIES. By Ricky Jay. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $40.) The contents of the 16 issues of Jay's handsome and handsomely researched historical quarterly of the same title about magicians and unusual performers, like the armless and legless bowler Matthew Buchinger and the multiple crucifixion victim Chami Khan.
JAZZ MODERNISM: From Ellington and Armstrong to Matisse and Joyce. By Alfred Appel Jr. (Knopf, $35.) Appel pursues the formal and thematic affinities between jazz and high modernism, linking the rhythms of Armstrong to Hemingway, the phrasings of Ellington to the work of Brancusi and Man Ray.
JESSE JAMES: Last Rebel of the Civil War. By T. J. Stiles. (Knopf, $27.50.) A provocative, heavily revisionist biography of America's prototype bandit; James's Civil War experiences as a death-squad guerrilla lead directly to his postwar depredations, which are seen less as proletarian anger against the rich and the banks than as efforts to defeat Reconstruction.
JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES. Volume Three: Fighting for Freedom, 1937-1946. By Robert Skidelsky. (Viking, $34.95.) The final installment of Skidelsky's life of the most influential economist since Adam Smith, who gave his all in the World War II struggle for survival, negotiating finances with the United States and trying to save Britain's market economy.
LAKE EFFECT. By Rich Cohen. (Knopf, $23.) Cohen's third book, a fast-moving memoir about his typically 1980's youth in suburban Chicago, is at its heart a candid and nostalgic tribute to the author's friendship with Jamie Drew -- the charismatic, troubled "true hero" of Cohen's youth.
THE LAST AMERICAN MAN. By Elizabeth Gilbert. (Viking, $24.95.) A profile of Eustace Conway, woodsman, hunter and visionary utopian, competent in every situation except social ones, where his inability to see anything in any way except his way becomes a handicap; he seems to lack the flexibility of his analogue, Crocodile Dundee.
LAZY B: Growing Up on a Cattle Ranch in the American Southwest. By Sandra Day O'Connor and H. Alan Day. (Random House, $24.95.) An engaging portrait, by the Supreme Court justice and her brother, of a distinctive, vanished way of life on 250 square miles without electricity or running water but with plenty of grit.
THE LETTERS OF KINGSLEY AMIS. Edited by Zachary Leader. (Talk Miramax/Hyperion, $40.) More than a thousand delicious pages of uncharitable observations by the author of "Lucky Jim" and many other fine surly novels, a womanizer who did not like women and a writer who could barely tolerate books; his letters to Philip Larkin are particularly funny, despite the absence of Larkin's letters to him.
L. FRANK BAUM: Creator of Oz. By Katharine M. Rogers. (St. Martin's, $27.95.) A life of the Royal Historian, whose 14 Oz books are unsentimental, emphasizing the homely American virtues of self-reliance and practicality, and fearlessly approaching old problems like the soul-body question; by a professional scholar and lifetime Oz devotee.
A LIFE IN PIECES: The Making and Unmaking of Binjamin Wilkomirski. By Blake Eskin. (Norton, $25.95.) In 1997, Wilkomirski's "Fragments" was much admired as a masterpiece of Holocaust writing; since then, both author and book have faded into fraudulence. Eskin's research now illuminates not the Holocaust but the fantasy life of a disturbed young man with an unhappy childhood whose real name Eskin himself is not altogether sure of.
A LIFE'S WORK: On Becoming a Mother. By Rachel Cusk. (Picador USA, $22.) The author of three well-esteemed English novels has dropped fiction for this funny, smart memoir of personal transition, in which her sense of captivity appears undeniable, breast-feeding despicable and mommy groups unbearable.
LINCOLN'S GREATEST SPEECH: The Second Inaugural. By Ronald C. White Jr. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A professor of American religious history interprets the speech as a sermon on the origins and paradoxes of the Civil War; its great theme is that God has his own purposes and knows them better than humans do.
THE LIVES OF THE MUSES: Nine Women and the Artists They Inspired. By Francine Prose. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) In her first nonfiction outing, Prose assesses women without whom the product of some male artists would have been different, from Alice Liddell (Lewis Carroll's Alice) to Suzanne Farrell (who cast a fertile spell on George Balanchine).
LONDON: The Biography. By Peter Ackroyd. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $45.) A prodigiously researched history that is neither top-down nor bottom-up but cross-sectional: shunning traditional chronology and players (aristocrats are scarce), Ackroyd instead offers a London defined by a set of recurring motifs -- smell, sound, speech, fog, fire, ghosts and plague are some of the more significant.
LONE PATRIOT: The Short Career of an American Militiaman. By Jane Kramer. (Pantheon, $25.) Real-life anthropology: the author hangs with a band of self-styled "patriots" in Washington State, finding them armed to the teeth yet reassuringly inept.
LONGITUDES AND ATTITUDES: Exploring the World After September 11. By Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) A collection of essays, supplemented by diary entries and previously unpublished notes, by the Times's foreign affairs columnist, many of them on the implications of 9/11 and the sheer complexity of America today.
LOST DISCOVERIES: The Ancient Roots of Modern Science -- From the Babylonians to the Maya. By Dick Teresi. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) A knowledgeable, witty science writer surveys the numerous scientific achievements of non-European civilizations, many of them well known to historians of science but usually excluded from classrooms in favor of Westerners.
THE LUNAR MEN: Five Friends Whose Curiosity Changed the World. By Jenny Uglow. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A study of the Lunar Society of Birmingham, which met monthly in the latter 18th century over the defining activities of the modern world: science and industries based on science.
LYRICS OF SUNSHINE AND SHADOW. The Tragic Courtship and Marriage of Paul Laurence Dunbar and Alice Ruth Moore: A History of Love and Violence Among the African American Elite. By Eleanor Alexander. (New York University, $26.95.) Alcoholism, bipolar disorder and the stresses of extreme visibility all played a part in the unfortunate relationship of America's first famous black poet and his wife, herself a writer of considerable distinction.
THE MAKING OF A PHILOSOPHER: My Journey Through Twentieth-Century Philosophy. By Colin McGinn. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) An autobiography whose author rose from Blackpool to Oxford to Rutgers, showing what it is like to be a philosopher in action: tough, determined, amusing, combative and clever, as well as engaged in an important and difficult task.
MASTER OF THE SENATE: The Years of Lyndon Johnson. By Robert A. Caro. (Knopf, $35.) In this new volume of his humongous life of Johnson (whom he is beginning to admire, a little), the author follows his man in taking over the United States Senate and pushing through it the first civil rights bill since 1875.
MASTERS OF DEATH: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust. By Richard Rhodes. (Knopf, $27.50.) A writer who has long been interested in the problems of violence examines the SS units assigned to kill Jews in Eastern Europe by shooting them; Nazi anxiety about the psychological health of men so employed led to the invention first of the gas vans, then of the gas chambers.
THE MEASURE OF ALL THINGS: The Seven-Year Odyssey and Hidden Error That Transformed the World. By Ken Alder. (Free Press, $27.) An absorbing, often comic account of the beginning of the metric system by two astronomers, charged to create a new unit of distance; this they did, despite wars, mobs, absurd rumors and even a touch of madness.
MOVIE LOVE IN THE FIFTIES. By James Harvey. (Knopf, $35.) Towering westerns and pert musicals are largely absent from this quirky celebration: Harvey asks how they can compare with James Mason as a megalomaniac cortisone addict or Deanna Durbin, incredibly, as a noir femme fatale -- beacons of subversion in an age that fairly crackled with conformity.
MRS. PAINE'S GARAGE: And the Murder of John F. Kennedy. By Thomas Mallon. (Pantheon, $22.) A journalistic inquiry into Ruth Paine, the woman who welcomed Marina Oswald -- and sometimes her husband, Lee -- into her suburban Dallas home in 1963; it offers a new theory about the antecedents of the assassination.
MUSSOLINI. By R. J. B. Bosworth. (Oxford University, $35.) A historian's judicious examination of the dictator who helped create Fascism from a mix of socialism and nationalism; he ruled Italy for 21 years, losing touch with reality when he became dependent on Hitler and too well acquainted with war. 
MY FINE FEATHERED FRIEND. By William Grimes. (North Point, $15.) Grimes, the restaurant critic for The Times, knew nothing about the variety of the chicken that arrived in his backyard -- cackling, pacing and pecking -- and stayed.
NAPOLEON: A Biography. By Frank McLynn. (Arcade, $32.95.) A biography that offers the general reader a synthesis of the enormous body of specialized research about Napoleon now available and examines current myths and controversies; its approach is occasionally psychoanalytical rather than historical.
NATASHA'S DANCE: A Cultural History of Russia. By Orlando Figes. (Metropolitan/Holt, $35.) This sequel to the author's history of the Russian Revolution examines the great and endless debates that have absorbed the nation's intellectual, artistic and moral authorities from Peter the Great's opening to the West until the present.
THE NATURAL: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton. By Joe Klein. (Doubleday, $22.95.) A solid, if provisional, overview of That Man, whose every sin made him more popular but who was never able (or didn't really try) to accomplish big-deal reforms, though his incremental achievements were substantial.
NEAR A THOUSAND TABLES: A History of Food. By Felipe Fernandez-Armesto. (Free Press, $25.) A bold historian (he has written a book about truth) undertakes to follow the shifts in history that have socialized people by making them cook and multiplied people by multiplying their diets and their choices.
NINETY DEGREES NORTH: The Quest for the North Pole. By Fergus Fleming. (Grove, $26.) Fleming's remarkable account of the quest for the North Pole between the 1850's and 1926 picks up where his previous book, "Barrow's Boys," about the British Admiralty's obsession with the Northwest Passage, left off; the two make up a sort of history of 19th-century Arctic exploration.
NOBODY'S PERFECT: Writings From The New Yorker. By Anthony Lane. (Knopf, $35.) Film, literature and other passions explored in virtuosic prose by a critic whose cheerful temper never stands in the way of a brilliant line delivered with insouciance, and whose powers as a literary critic are first-rate, even when he reviews Judith Krantz.
nothing remains the same: Rereading and Remembering. By Wendy Lesser. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A critic turns her scrutiny to the minute but vertiginous "re-" of "rereading": each time she cracks a dusty cover, her young self, long dormant, emerges from within.
OAXACA JOURNAL. By Oliver Sacks. (National Geographic, $20.) An organized excursion for fern lovers became a discovery of Mexico for the endlessly curious Dr. Sacks, first shocked by the third-world poverty of rural Mexico, then entirely absorbed in the visit to another time provided by its pre-Hispanic remains.
OFF TO THE SIDE: A Memoir. By Jim Harrison. (Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A sprawling, roundabout report on the life lived large by a writer who is fairly sprawling and roundabout himself; hunting, fishing, eating a five-hour meal with Orson Welles, making vast money in Hollywood and misplacing it, offering no apologies for his participation in "the incalculable messiness of life."
OUR POSTHUMAN FUTURE: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution. By Francis Fukuyama. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) Fukuyama ("The End of History and the Last Man") advances another controversial but thoughtful thesis: biotechnological advances -- behavior-modifying drugs, genetic tinkering -- may alter human nature and move us into a "posthuman" stage of history.
OUT OF THE BLUE: The Story of September 11, 2001, From Jihad to Ground Zero. By Richard Bernstein. (Times Books/Holt, $25.) An ambitious and straightforward attempt by Bernstein and other reporters of The Times to turn the myriad narrative strands of 9/11 -- the attacks, the perpetrators, the victims -- into a coherent whole, complete with recurring characters and plotlines that balance action and exposition.
THE PERFECT STORE: Inside eBay. By Adam Cohen. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author, who writes editorials for The Times, traces the growth of the online auction site from fuzzy utopian community to corporate behemoth where one can buy everything from Sevres and Studebakers to pickle pots and, yes, "The Perfect Store."
PRINCE OF PRINCES: The Life of Potemkin. By Sebag Montefiore. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $45.) A densely detailed biography of Prince Grigory Alexandrovich Potemkin (1739-91), who served as Catherine the Great's military strategist, diplomat, literary adviser, art collector and lover, outlasting other favorites in her glamorous yet crude court.
"A PROBLEM FROM HELL": America and the Age of Genocide. By Samantha Power. (New Republic/Basic Books, $30.) Power, the executive director of Harvard's Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, expertly documents American passivity toward various genocides in the 20th century.
RACISM: A Short History. By George M. Fredrickson. (Princeton University, $22.95.) A historian proposes that the distinctive ideology of Western racism was made necessary by the growing Enlightenment belief in equality; earlier and elsewhere, men had needed no theories to treat one another ill.
REACHING FOR GLORY: Lyndon Johnson's Secret White House Tapes, 1964-1965. Edited by Michael Beschloss. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) Political skill, ruthlessness and paranoia distinguish Johnson's talks covering the period in 1964 and 1965 when he got his Great Society programs through Congress and plunged this country into war in Vietnam.
READING CHEKHOV: A Critical Journey. By Janet Malcolm. (Random House, $23.95.) A gifted journalist's elegant excursion through and around Chekhov, finding "wild and strange" objects in his stories where others have often sighted only delicacy, modesty and candid, well-behaved shades of gray.
THE RECKLESS MIND: Intellectuals in Politics. By Mark Lilla. (New York Review, $24.95.) A sense of disappointment drives this nimble, illuminating study: disappointment that such profound and influential minds as Heidegger, Benjamin and Foucault could have been so politically detached when confronted by the tumult of the 20th century.
REINVENTING THE BAZAAR: A Natural History of Markets. By John McMillan. (Norton, $25.95.) An economist's world tour: the Dutch flower market in Aalsmeer and the centuries-old camel fair of Rajasthan, India, are two examples of McMillan's enthusiasm for free markets, which achieve their full potential, he insists, only if the government provides the necessary infrastructure.
REVENGE: A Story of Hope. By Laura Blumenfeld. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) When her father, an American rabbi, was shot in the Old City of Jerusalem, Blumenfeld ingratiated herself with the Palestinian gunman's family, planning the disclosure of her identity as a form of revenge; Blumenfeld, a Washington Post reporter, explores the mechanics and psychology of vengeance and creates a subtle portrait of the gunman himself.
THE RIVER'S TALE: A Year on the Mekong. By Edward A. Gargan. (Knopf, $26.95.) A journey from the Tibetan plateau to the delta in Vietnam, taken by a former correspondent for The Times in an effort to understand better the region that obsessed him since his college days; the American presence, and its effects on the lands along the river, are always in view.
THE RURAL LIFE. By Verlyn Klinkenborg. (Little, Brown, $20.) Brief, luminous, descriptive and meditative essays, mostly from this newspaper, pursuing a month-to-month journey through the seasonal demands of country life, especially on the author's farm in upstate New York but with excursions to the West.
THE RUSSIA HAND: A Memoir of Presidential Diplomacy. By Strobe Talbott. (Random House, $29.95.) An account that manages to be, well, diplomatic even as it depicts the post-cold-war epic in terms of personal encounters between two men who seem the joint product of Chaucer, Rabelais and Balzac: Bill Clinton and the man Clinton called Ol' Boris.
SAKHAROV: A Biography. By Richard Lourie. (Brandeis University/University Press of New England, $30.) The author, a novelist and translator, offers a subtle, revealing life of Andrei Sakharov, the nuclear physicist who developed into an authentic apostle of humanity and democracy in the former Soviet Union.
SALT: A World History. By Mark Kurlansky. (Walker, $28.) There's more to salt than everybody knows; without it, people can't live. It's cheap now, and many people get too much, but that wasn't always so; Kurlansky gives the economic, political, chemical and industrial story of a substance once so valuable that "salary" is named for it.
SAVAGE REPRISALS: Bleak House, Madame Bovary, Buddenbrooks. By Peter Gay. (Norton, $24.95.) A distinguished cultural historian reads three landmark novels as propelled, respectively, by Dickens's resentment of his mean old mother, Flaubert's of the culture of the bourgeoisie and Mann's of his capitalist father.
SCOTTY: James B. Reston and the Rise and Fall of American Journalism. By John F. Stacks. (Little, Brown, $29.95.) The life of a journalist who joined The New York Times in 1939 and came to personify it; his access to the powerful, who came to trust his balance and propriety, served him well in the 1950's, less well in the age of Vietnam and Watergate.
THE SHORT SWEET DREAM OF EDUARDO GUTIERREZ. By Jimmy Breslin. (Crown, $22.) A true-life account of an illegal Mexican immigrant who died on a New York construction site, and of the dreary lives and modest ambitions common to Mexicans in this country.
SINCLAIR LEWIS: Rebel From Main Street. By Richard Lingeman. (Random House, $35.) A biography of Lewis (1885-1951), America's first Nobel laureate in literature (1930), whose once immense reputation has suffered an undeserved posthumous decline.
THE SISTERS: The Saga of the Mitford Family. By Mary S. Lovell. (Norton, $29.95.) The story of the six high-spirited, aristocratic, amusing and amusable sisters who did as they pleased, mostly, and captured the imagination of Britain for about half the 20th century; the author takes no sides and, what is truly remarkable, keeps track of all six lives at once.
SISTERS OF SALOME. By Toni Bentley. (Yale University, $27.95.) A former Balanchine dancer, profoundly alerted by a visit to the Crazy Horse in Paris, explores the history and philosophy of stripping, from its inspiration in Wilde's "Salome" to her own personal experimental demonstration in a TriBeCa club.
THE SKEPTIC: A Life of H. L. Mencken. By Terry Teachout. (HarperCollins, $29.95.) This biography copes with Mencken's shortcomings -- crankiness, provinciality and an inability to believe Germany was doing wrong in the 20th century -- by placing them in contemporary contexts.
SNOBBERY: The American Version. By Joseph Epstein. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) In a society more ostensibly egalitarian than ever, Epstein observes, snobbery has proliferated and intensified in new forms, with new peaks from which to look down on others; he fleshes out his perceptions with an examination of his own experience.
SOLDIERS: Fighting Men's Lives, 1901-2001. By Philip Ziegler. (Knopf, $26.) Ziegler, well known as a biographer of royalty and celebrities, concentrates here on the ashes of empire by talking to residents of London's Royal Hospital Chelsea, veterans of Britain's wars from Flanders to Cyprus and Aden, men who had little to lose in life and little to gain but whose fidelity never came into question.
SOMEBODY'S GOTTA TELL IT: The Upbeat Memoir of a Working-Class Journalist. By Jack Newfield. (St. Martin's Press, $25.95.) The scrappy, Brooklyn-born muckraker recalls the tumultuous 60's and its characters, big and small, from the worlds of politics, sports, crime, journalism and music.
SONIC BOOM: Napster, MP3, and the New Pioneers of Music. By John Alderman. (Perseus, $26.) A smart and meticulous book on the still unfolding digital music revolution; Alderman, who covered the scene for Wired News, is sympathetic to the upstarts but not uncritically so.
SOROS: The Life and Times of a Messianic Billionaire. By Michael T. Kaufman. (Knopf, $27.50.) A survivor of Nazism and Communism who has made billions is bound to contain paradoxes; personally shy and financially bold, Soros admits he wants to be "the conscience of the world" and has given huge sums to undermine totalitarianism but, as this biography by a former correspondent and editor for The Times makes clear, he cares little for publicity.
SPY: The Inside Story of How the FBI's Robert Hanssen Betrayed America. By David Wise. (Random House, $24.95.) Wise, a longstanding authority on the spy business, explains how a turncoat of no great intellect or skill escaped detection for two decades of bumbling by several intelligence services, including the K.G.B., which never learned his identity though he had betrayed to it many American agents or targets of C.I.A. recruitment.
STARDUST MELODIES: The Biography of Twelve of America's Most Popular Songs. By Will Friedwald. (Pantheon, $27.50.) The songs, all of which everybody knows, are discussed in individual chapters, giving each song's genesis, a microscopic analysis of its structure, a detailed assessment of its performing and recording history; by a deeply attentive, emotionally attuned listener.
STEP ACROSS THIS LINE: Collected Nonfiction 1992-2002. By Salman Rushdie. (Random House, $25.95.) Sketches, essays, columns, speeches from a decade, some of them a bit mean-spirited, others gorgeous. They include a grave, eloquent recent lecture series at Yale that calls on artists to use their own weapons against the assault of Sept. 11 and its subversion of the world we thought we knew.
TEACHER: The One Who Made the Difference. By Mark Edmundson. (Random House, $23.95.) A fascinating tribute to a teacher who opened the doors of careful thought to Edmundson in 1969, his last year in high school in Medford, Mass., a working-class city that supplied factory workers and civil servants; instead, it eventually delivered Edmundson into the English professoriate of the University of Virginia.
TED HUGHES: The Life of a Poet. By Elaine Feinstein. (Norton, $29.95.) A sensitive full-scale portrait of Hughes (1930-98), a private man who became known as much for his tragic marriage to Sylvia Plath as for his own work.
TESTS OF TIME. By William H. Gass. (Knopf, $25.) An impressive collection of essays by the distinguished novelist, essayist and philosopher; Gass addresses matters literary, social and political, including the fatwa against Salman Rushdie and the O. J. Simpson trial.
THEM: Adventures With Extremists. By Jon Ronson. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A British journalist and documentary filmmaker, straining to sound naive, hobnobs with conspiracy theorists who think a few conspirators run the world; at their most extreme, they can become conspirators themselves, as Timothy McVeigh did, disappointed with the Ku Klux Klan.
THEODORE REX. By Edmund Morris. (Random House, $35.) The sequel to "The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt" (1979) covers a relatively brief period, beginning with the assassin's bullet that elevated Vice President Roosevelt to the White House, ending seven and a half years later.
A THREAD ACROSS THE OCEAN: The Heroic Story of the Transatlantic Cable. By John Steele Gordon. (Walker, $26.) Laying a telegraphic cable 2,000 miles long and two miles deep required amazing supplies of money, time and nerve; it finally succeeded in 1866.
THE THREATENING STORM: The Case for Invading Iraq. By Kenneth M. Pollack. (Random House, $25.95.) Pollack brings his experience as a Persian Gulf analyst for the C.I.A. to bear in this argument for invasion; he sets the stage with a chilling portrayal of conditions there, then examines each of the buzz-word choices facing the United States -- containment," "deterrence" and "regime change."
TIME TRAVELER: In Search of Dinosaurs and Ancient Mammals From Montana to Mongolia. By Michael Novacek. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) An insightful natural history of our planet and a lively memoir about how Novacek, curator of paleontology at the American Museum of Natural History, fell into the profession.
TONIGHT AT NOON: A Love Story. By Sue Graham Mingus. (Pantheon, $24.) A memoir (by a onetime Milwaukee debutante) of 11 years and numerous tumults with a very difficult man, the jazz composer, bandleader and double-bass virtuoso Charles Mingus, the last three as his wife until his death in 1979.
TRAINS OF THOUGHT: Memories of a Stateless Youth. By Victor Brombert. (Norton, $25.95.) A lyrical, luminous account of the displacements of a bourgeois Jewish childhood, mostly in Europe, and of United States Army service during World War II; by a distinguished literary academic who came to America with his family in the summer of 1941.
TRAVELS WITH A TANGERINE: A Journey in the Footnotes of Ibn Battutah. By Tim Mackintosh-Smith. (Welcome Rain, $30.) A genial, civilized rendition, by a curious scholar, of some of the 75,000 miles pursued by the great 14th-century Moroccan traveler Ibn Battutah.
WAR IS A FORCE THAT GIVES US MEANING. By Chris Hedges. (PublicAffairs, $23.) Hedges, a reporter for The Times and for 15 years a foreign correspondent, admits to war addiction and swears it off, stepping back to reflect on the carnage he witnessed and the devices of those whose purpose war serves.
WARRIOR POLITICS: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos. By Robert D. Kaplan. (Random House, $22.95.) Kaplan's plan for preserving the American ideal suggests using the wisdom of the past -- Churchill's statesmanship, Sun-Tzu's "hesitant determinism" -- as a guide for future foreign policy.
WHAT EVOLUTION IS. By Ernst Mayr. (Basic Books, $26.) A wise and illuminating examination, by an illustrious evolutionary biologist, that sorts out the complexities of evolution -- as the author calls it, "perhaps the greatest intellectual revolution experienced by mankind" -- with insight and authority.
WHAT KIND OF NATION: Thomas Jefferson, John Marshall, and the Epic Struggle to Create a United States. By James F. Simon. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) A professor of law examines the angry dialogue of several decades between Jefferson, who thought the 13 colonies made 13 sovereignties, and Marshall, who thought the Constitution made them one.
WHAT WENT WRONG? Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response. By Bernard Lewis. (Oxford University, $23.) A remarkable, succinct account of a cultural and political conflict centuries in the making; by a distinguished and prolific historian of the Muslim world.
WHY I AM A CATHOLIC. By Garry Wills. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) Wills, who says he has never even considered leaving the Roman Catholic Church, tells why, giving en route a condensed history of the papacy and of its growth in recent centuries to aberrant proportions, in need of supervision from the loyal People of God.
WILL YOU MISS ME WHEN I'M GONE? The Carter Family and Their Legacy in American Music. By Mark Zwonitzer with Charles Hirshberg. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) Born and raised in southwestern Virginia, the original Carters -- two women on guitar and autoharp and, often, a peculiar male voice -- seemed both strange and beautiful in 1927, and still do.
WITTGENSTEIN'S POKER: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers. By David Edmonds and John Eidinow. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $24.) So what happened between Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper in a legendary encounter in 1946, and who should care? The authors reconstruct the episode and try to find out.
THE WRITER AND THE WORLD. By V. S. Naipaul. (Knopf, $30.) A collection covering about three decades and divided into sections on India, Africa and America, by the Nobel Prize winner whose perpetual personal frame of reference and utter fearlessness about giving offense season his habitual gloom.
YOUTH. By J. M. Coetzee. (Viking, $22.95.) During that period of a man's life when he is most repulsive to himself and everybody else, Coetzee, at the end of his teens a snob, prude and mama's boy, devoted immense efforts to becoming a lover and an artist, with results so disappointing at the time he has seen fit to write this memoir in the third person.
CHILDREN'S BOOKS
ACTION JACKSON. By Jan Greenberg and Sandra Jordan. Illustrated by Robert Andrew Parker. (Roaring Brook, $16.95.) (Ages 8 and up) The text of this account of Jackson Pollock's life is straightforward, and the illustrations are brilliantly done by an accomplished artist whose lighthearted expressionist approach works gracefully and effectively with Pollock's painting.
AMERICA. By E. R. Frank. (Richard Jackson/Atheneum, $18.) (Ages 12 and up) An absorbing and challenging novel about a teenage boy who has been "abandoned, adopted, abandoned, fostered, abducted, abandoned" and more, but is surviving. 
EMILY DICKINSON'S LETTERS TO THE WORLD. Written and illustrated by Jeanette Winter. (Frances Foster/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $16.) (Ages 5 and up) A small book offers an intriguing and rich introduction to the life and work of the poet. The illustrations are complex and insightful.
FEED. By M. T. Anderson. (Candlewick, $16.99.) (Ages 12 and up) In this novel about teenagers in a consumerist future, the author imagines an America where people have computer chips implanted in their heads. For spring break youngsters party on the moon. The book is fast, shrewd, slang-filled and surprisingly engaging.
HONDO & FABIAN. Written and illustrated by Peter McCarty. (Holt, $16.95.) (Ages 2 to 5) Two friends, a dog and cat, spend a perfect day -- the dog at the beach with another dog, the cat at home with the baby of the house. Serene and enchanting.
I STINK. By Kate McMullan. Illustrated by Jim McMullan. (Joanna Cotler/HarperCollins, $15.95.) (Ages 4 to 8) A big urban garbage truck tells all -- and that includes describing steering wheels, gas pedals, brakes, all in pairs -- and recites a deliciously revolting alphabet of what it devours. A subject of consuming interest to many children, and the book is illustrated with great energy and wit.
MADLENKA'S DOG. Written and illustrated by Peter Sis. (Frances Foster/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $17.) (Ages 5 to 9) Madlenka and her imaginary dog (so real it frightens cats) on a red leash tour her urban neighborhood in this splendid, witty fantasy. 
THE THIEF LORD. By Cornelia Funke. The Chicken House/Scholastic, $16.95.) (Ages 8 and up) A fast-paced German novel about orphan brothers who run away from Hamburg to Venice and join a band of pickpockets led by an aristocratic thief. What distinguishes it from other fantasy capers is its respect for both the struggle to grow up and the mixed blessings of growing old.
THE THREE QUESTIONS: Based on a Story by Leo Tolstoy. Written and illustrated by Jon J. Muth. (Scholastic, $16.95.) (Ages 6 and up) A beautifully illustrated and engaging meditation on how to live, involving a boy named Nikolai and his friends the heron, the monkey and the dog, a wise turtle, and a mother panda and her baby.
YELLOW UMBRELLA. Written and illustrated by Jae Soo Liu. (Kane/ Miller, $19.95.) (Ages 4 and up) An enchanting wordless account of a rainy day journey, seen mostly from above as children move through rain-drenched streets. There's also a CD that is meant to accompany the story and, surprisingly, it does.
MYSTERIES
CITY OF BONES. By Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) Sheer narrative propulsion drives the action of this haunting story, which plunges Harry Bosch, a Los Angeles police detective, into deep contemplation of the ancient history of human violence as he hunts for meaning in the death of a 12-year-old boy whose skeletal remains turn up in the hills of Laurel Canyon.
HELL TO PAY. By George P. Pelecanos. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) This down-and-dirty writer from the urban badlands of Washington breaks out two of his best characters, ex-cops Derek Strange and Terry Quinn, to give us a jolting view of lawless neighborhoods where menacing pimps, feral street kids and no-hope stiffs live and prey on 
one another.
JOLIE BLON'S BOUNCE. By James Lee Burke. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A former plantation overseer, whose biblical name of Legion suggests this diabolical villain's capacity for evil, gets a little too close to Burke's Cajun detective, Dave Robicheaux, in a Southern Gothic tale that uncovers the traditions of sexual sadism in a Louisiana bayou town.
THE LAST KASHMIRI ROSE. By Barbara Cleverly. (Carroll & Graf, $24.) The seductive beauty and secret dangers of India under the British Raj are evoked in this exotic debut whodunit, which sends a dashing Metropolitan Police officer to Bengal in 1922 to investigate the deaths of five cavalry officers' wives, each a victim of her own worst nightmare.
THE PRONE GUNMAN. By Jean-Patrick Manchette. (City Lights Noir, paper, $11.95.) Cool, compact and shockingly original, this noir crime novel dispassionately observes the professional ruin and mental decline of a hired killer who makes the mistake of thinking that he can retire from his deadly trade and settle down with a nice girl.
Q IS FOR QUARRY. By Sue Grafton. (Marian Wood/Putnam, $26.95.) Building on the skimpy facts in a true (and still unsolved) 1969 homicide of an unknown woman whose body was dumped in a quarry in Santa Barbara County, Grafton creates a sensitive assignment for her private eye, Kinsey Millhone, and two old geezer-cops who are obsessed with this sad case.
RESOLUTION. By Denise Mina. (Carroll & Graf, $25.) Although it can stand alone as the stark account of the murder of an eccentric old woman who sells bootleg CD's at an open-air flea market, this crime novel is the final chapter in a class-conscious trilogy about the disintegration of a socially dysfunctional neighborhood in gritty Glasgow.
THE SNIPER'S WIFE. By Archer Mayor. (Mysterious/Warner, $23.95.) Willy Kunkle, a one-armed, wild-eyed cop who normally works the clean mean streets of Brattleboro, Vt., comes to New York to identify the body of his ex-wife and sticks around to hunt for her killer, using the sniper skills he picked up in Vietnam to feel his way around this jungle of a city.
THE STONE MONKEY. By Jeffery Deaver. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) In a labyrinthine plot that is a marvel of intricate game construction, Deaver pits his genius sleuth, Lincoln Rhyme, against a shape-shifting villain known as the Ghost, who sank a ship of illegal Chinese immigrants off the coast of Long Island and is now hellbent on eliminating all witnesses to the atrocity.
SCIENCE FICTION
ACROSS THE NIGHTINGALE FLOOR. By Lian Hearn. (Riverhead, $24.95.) An engaging fantasy of love and revenge that secures the reader's suspension of disbelief by bringing to life an appealing setting -- an alternate medieval Japan -- and a likable young hero who has inherited the ability to cloud men's minds and to seem to be in two places at the same time.
APPLESEED. By John Clute. (Tor/ Tom Doherty, $25.95.) The co-author of both The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction and The Encyclopedia of Fantasy brings his vast knowledge of imaginative literature to this playful but daunting far-future novel. Readers must be on their toes to follow Clute's quicksilver re-envisioning of familiar genre premises and jargon.
THE LONGEST WAY HOME. By Robert Silverberg. (Eos/HarperCollins, $25.95.) In his usual lucid prose Silverberg chronicles the long journey home of a young aristocrat who, fleeing a rebellion of his world's supposedly docile underclass, discovers some disturbing truths about his society and some heartening truths about himself, while interacting with a fascinating mix of truly surprisingly alien aliens. 
PRETERNATURAL3. By Margaret Wander Bonanno. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95.) Bonanno is at it again, proving (as she did in the first two books in this series) that science fiction and postmodern metafiction were made for each other. What she sees while looking over her own shoulder -- love outdueling death -- will enthrall any reader prepared to follow her through this tricky maze of a novel.
SKIN FOLK. By Nalo Hopkinson. (Warner Aspect, paper, $12.95.) The acclaimed author of "Brown Girl in the Ring" and "Midnight Robber" puts her lyrical gifts to good use in a collection of new and previously published short stories whose mood ranges from erotic to enraged.
SOLITAIRE. By Kelley Eskridge. (Eos/HarperCollins, $24.95.) The plotting of this first novel may strain credulity, but when a young woman who has been promised the world is sentenced to eight years of solitary confinement inside her own head, her high-tech ordeal is evoked in a stylistic and psychological tour de force that arouses both pity and terror.
THE WATCH. By Dennis Danvers. (Eos/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A thoughtful time-travel romp by the author of "Circuit of Heaven" and "End of Days." Its unlikely hero is the Russian anarchist Peter Kropotkin, who is plucked from his deathbed in 1921 and given a second chance to bring Western society to its senses.
 THE YEARS OF RICE AND SALT. By Kim Stanley Robinson. (Bantam, $25.95.) What if the Black Plague had wiped out not a third but virtually all of Europe's population in the 14th century? This is the eye-opening premise of Robinson's latest novel, a magisterial alternate history from one of science fiction's most important writers.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Jules Feiffer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (86%); LITERATURE (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); WRITERS (78%); HOME ACCIDENTS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



206 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 4706 words

HEADLINE: How Green Is BP? 

BYLINE:  By Darcy Frey; Darcy Frey is a contributing writer to the magazine. His last article was about the debate over oil drilling in ecologically sensitive regions.

 BODY:
Last March, Lord John Browne, the group chief executive of the British oil giant BP, gave a speech at Stanford University. Had you stumbled into the auditorium partway through, you might be forgiven for assuming the man at the podium was not an oil baron, an industrialist, an extractor of fossil fuels from the tender earth but an environmentalist of the high church calling for the abolition of hydrocarbons, the very substance that had made his company and himself so fabulously rich. His subject was global climate change -- in particular, the process by which humans, by burning oil and gas, have been slowly, perhaps irreversibly, warming the earth's atmosphere. And instead of hewing to the line of industry, instead of calling (as President Bush and the head of Exxon Mobil have) for caution and further research, he said, "I believe the American people expect a company like BP . . . to offer answers and not excuses." He also said, "Climate change is an issue which raises fundamental questions about the relationship between companies and society as a whole, and between one generation and the next." He even said, "Companies composed of highly skilled and trained people can't live in denial of mounting evidence gathered by hundreds of the most reputable scientists in the world." 
 Around the time Browne was at Stanford, sounding strikingly unlike an oil executive, BP was trying its own kind of identity shift, sounding strikingly unlike an oil company. Two years earlier, at a cost of $200 million, it began an enormous corporate rebranding exercise, shortening its name from British Petroleum to BP, coining the slogan "Beyond Petroleum" and redesigning its corporate insignia. Out went the old British Petroleum shield that had been a familiar image in Britain for more than 70 years, and in came a green, yellow and white sunburst that seemed to suggest a warm and fuzzy feeling about the earth. BP press officers were careful not to explain exactly what "Beyond Petroleum" meant, but the slogan, coupled with the cheerful sunburst, sent the message that the company was looking past oil and gas toward a benign, eco-friendly future of solar and renewable energy. New Yorkers in particular were the target of a high-saturation ad campaign that felt, at times, like an overfriendly stranger putting his arm around you in a bar. In Times Square, a huge billboard went up, reading if only we could harness the energy of new york city. Then the stranger, perhaps feeling the need to explain his intentions, went on: solar, natural gas, wind, hydrogen. and oh yes, oil. Finally, the stranger took his arm away with a bit of a shrug: it's a start. 
 BP's print and TV ad campaign, which is winding down this month, represents one of the most dazzlingly high-profile corporate P.R. efforts in recent years. Created by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, it aspires to a conversational, almost confidential voice that suggests, You know what oil companies do to the environment, and we do, too, but honestly, we're not like that at all. "People are skeptical of oil companies -- go figure!" says Jennifer Ruys, director of external affairs for BP. "And the ad campaign was designed to get at that skepticism." As the billboards announce: BP was "the first oil company to publicly recognize the risks of global climate change." BP "believes in alternative energy. Like solar and cappuccino." BP has joined forces with New York's Urban Park Rangers to, of all things, release four bald eagles into the wilds of Upper Manhattan. At the end of each ad was the same winking tag line: "It's a start."
Based in London, BP is the world's second-largest oil company (after Exxon Mobil), with gross revenues of $174 billion and 15,500 service stations in the United States. It operates in more than 100 countries and produces almost 3.5 billion barrels of oil and gas a year. Largely, this has been the handiwork of Lord Browne, who became group chief executive in 1995 (and was knighted 3 years later) and followed his own ascension by quickly expanding the once midsize company into a huge multinational. In 1999, BP merged with Amoco in a deal worth $140 billion; a year later, it bought Atlantic Richfield for $27 billion. These megadeals have more than paid for themselves. At press time, BP shares were trading at $38, which is an 80 percent increase since Browne's rise to power seven years ago.
If Browne, 54, has made a name for himself as a high-stakes deal maker, he has also shown that he is alert to the dangers of heading a colossal oil company in a world that -- because of climate change, murmurings of war-for-oil and a host of other global crises -- may hate oil companies, no matter how profitable they are. More than that, he has shown the ambition to redefine the very nature of Big Oil: pushing BP to confront global warming, candidly acknowledge the company's mistakes (environmental penalties against the company appear on its Web site), enter into dialogue with environmental groups, hire people with strong environmental ethics and opinions. "John Browne would be the first to say, 'Even on our best day, we're still a big dirty company,"' says one person involved in BP's rebranding effort. "But aren't there ways to do it smarter, cleaner, in a more surprising and forward-thinking way?"' He adds, "This guy's swimming upstream." 
BP's multimillion-dollar campaign is the public face of Browne's convictions. At a time when anxiety over dependence on Middle Eastern oil has sent other energy companies scurrying for cover, BP is rushing to center stage, betting that, as Michael Kaye, who worked on the campaign as an associate creative director at Ogilvy, puts it, "BP can be a friend -- listening to consumers, speaking in a human voice." BP is also betting that this will gain them a competitive advantage in the marketplace, that it will convince consumers that BP is, in the words of Anna Catalano, group vice president for marketing, "the company that goes beyond what you expect from an oil company -- frank, open, honest and unapologetic." BP is the only oil company right now risking a huge advertising presence in this oil-wary culture. And this may turn out to be the richest deal of all.
But to persuade the public that BP is no rapacious multinational, that it is instead an organization thinking first and foremost of the public good, may not come so easily as long as BP remains an oil company, deriving the vast majority of its profits from the black stuff that -- from drilling rig to oil tanker to refinery to gas station -- scars the earth, pollutes the air and eventually warms the planet. And once the company tried to convey its new identity in billboard form, the contradiction only deepened. How can an oil company be "Beyond Petroleum" without actively distancing itself from its core product, and how can a company that digs big holes in the ground possibly advertise itself as a sensitive steward of the environment? BP's rebranding campaign caused fits, not only in the environmental movement, which saw it as the highest form of hypocrisy, but also within the company itself, which embraced and then disavowed its P.R. message so many times that people began to wonder if the company was beyond petroleum or merely beyond belief. The Independent of London, a vigilant BP-watcher, concluded that the company was "brimming with success, gushing with money, and very much wanting to be liked. Yet its image is confused, and its reputation is on the line as never before." 
But its biggest challenge may come years, perhaps decades, from now, when the world turns to other forms of energy -- in part because of dwindling oil supplies but mainly because of the mounting and unimpeachable evidence that we have a profound carbon problem on our hands; that even if we discover billions of new barrels of oil in the ground, we cannot keep burning them -- and pumping vast amounts of carbon dioxide and other so-called greenhouse gases into the atmosphere -- without potentially catastrophic consequences. According to the latest findings of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in order to stabilize greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, global emissions must be reduced to at least 60 percent below 1990 levels. That is a radical change in the way the world uses energy. And to accomplish that, many people feel, will require nothing less than a new industrial revolution, an overwhelming retreat from society's mass reliance on the carbon fuels -- oil, gas and coal -- that have powered the global economy for more than a hundred years.
Browne is uncomfortable speculating about a future completely without oil. "My view is that hydrocarbons will be the bulk of the energy supply for the next 30 to 50 years," he said when I met him last spring. But clearly Browne is trying to prepare BP for the end of the fossil-fuel game -- by cutting the emissions of carbon dioxide that it creates while producing oil and gas, by shifting to cleaner fuels like natural gas, which emits about half the volume of CO2 generated from coal and ultimately by positioning itself as a producer of alternative and renewable energy: hydrogen, wind, solar. 
But whether the company -- which made its fortunes in the oil fields of Iran and later on the North Slope of Alaska -- can survive the shift to a new energy economy remains an open question. "That's a huge level of wishful thinking," says one American scientist who has advised BP's senior management on climate change and renewable energy. "Of course they say they see themselves that way, and of course they're going to try. But whether they will have any chance of successfully outcompeting newcomers in renewable energy is a very big question. Because historically, once those transformations have happened, the existing companies have not held the edge. These companies, some of which have existed for a hundred years, are essentially about extracting petroleum. And in a world where you don't extract petroleum anymore, the first order of expectation is that you're dead."
The Dalton highway is a two-lane gravel road that runs some 400 miles from Fairbanks, Alaska, to the coast of the Arctic Ocean. Built by BP with a consortium of other oil companies after the huge 1968 strike at Prudhoe Bay, it has been open to the public for more than 10 years. After the highway, known as the Haul Road, descends the north slope of the Brooks Range, it begins to cross the open, boggy tundra of the Arctic coastal plain. Gradually, as the landscape grows prairie flat, natural objects lose their dominance and industrial ones take their place: pipelines, pump stations, piles of gravel. By the time you reach Prudhoe Bay, industry has completely consumed the view: wellheads, compressor stations, seawater processing plants, roads, flares, landing strips and overhead power lines stretch as far as the eye can see. Here, some 200 miles north of the Arctic Circle, in the middle of a vast boreal wilderness, is one of the largest industrial developments in the world. 
Browne had overseen the company's Alaska division for many years, and when he became group chief executive in 1995, he revealed himself to be one oil man who did not believe that the oil business could -- or should -- go on as it had before. Soft-spoken and slightly built, with a manner more befitting a university lecture hall than an offshore oil rig, Browne consulted with dozens of scientists and took what he describes as a "deep dive" into the confusing, sometimes contradictory science of global warming. Back then, BP (along with Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch/Shell and a few other oil companies) was still a member of the Global Climate Coalition, an international lobbying group set up specifically to cast skepticism on climate-change science and, later, to undermine support for the Kyoto Protocol, the international pact in which industrialized nations agreed to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. But in 1997, Browne gave a speech at Stanford (a precursor to the one last spring) in which he acknowledged that there was now an "effective consensus" among the world's leading scientists regarding the human influence on the climate. "The science wasn't complete -- but science is never complete," he said last spring. "But they knew enough to say that there were long-term risks and that precautionary action was necessary if we were to avoid the greater risk -- of the evidence mounting to the point where draconian action was unavoidable."
In the continuing, ever-changing study of global warming, five years is an ice age, so it is hard to remember exactly how revolutionary this was, coming from the C.E.O. of a major oil company in 1997. But at the time, the American Petroleum Institute, of which BP had been a longstanding member, announced that Browne had, as he recalls, "left the church." 
"BP was the first to say that climate change was a problem, the first to take responsibility and the first to have an internal target" for reducing their emissions, says Eileen Claussen, the president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. "They were pretty brave." 
In some respects, it was an act of corporate bravery for BP and, later, Royal Dutch/Shell and a handful of other companies, to buck their own industry. Unlike the tobacco companies, which for years denied that their products were causing harm -- or Exxon Mobil, which ran ads trying to discredit global-warming science -- BP and the others have been willing to confront the unpleasant truth that not only their business practices but also their core products are probable causes of global warming. In 1996, BP resigned from the Global Climate Coalition, then offered its support of the Kyoto Protocol and joined Claussen's Business Environmental Leadership Council, a program set up by the Pew Center to encourage private-sector involvement. In 1998, Browne publicly committed BP to cutting its carbon-dioxide emissions by 10 percent below 1990 levels by the year 2010, which was a 40 percent cut from business as usual and a target far more ambitious than the Kyoto Protocol itself.
But it is not just altruism that has convinced Browne and these other C.E.O.'s to seize the moral high ground. Despite the Bush administration's stubborn refusal to deal with the issue, Browne says that he thinks there will soon be government regulation of greenhouse gases. And companies that have anticipated regulation will not only know how to use it to their advantage; they will also, as Browne puts it, "gain a seat at the table, a chance to influence future rules."
And so, in order to meet its target for reducing its greenhouse-gas emissions, BP sought the advice of NGO's like the Pew Center and Environmental Defense and set up a system in which each of its 150 business units, spread across more than 100 countries, would be assigned a quota of emissions permits and encouraged to trade with one another. The company gave each business unit the choice of bringing itself into compliance by cutting its own emissions, buying emissions credits from other units or making enough greenhouse-gas reductions to have leftover permits that could be sold to other business units that violate their emissions ceilings. The motivation was simple enough: business units that reduced their emissions or cut their fuel consumption would have those savings count toward their bottom line, which, in turn, would be reflected in pay scales and bonuses at year's end.
Many environmentalists are skeptical of such market-based solutions to global warming. For one thing, with such a vast number of different emissions sources and no single method for measuring emissions, enforcing compliance becomes hard, tempting companies to fudge the numbers. Then there's the matter of mitigation: why should polluters be allowed to trade emissions instead of being forced to solve the problem at its root? And will trading programs merely slow the growth rate of emissions when society's goal should be to engineer a fundamental shift away from fossil fuels? 
But emissions trading, which is part of the compliance mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol, is supported by the vast majority of economists, who believe that market-based mechanisms may be the most cost-effective -- and therefore most viable -- method of cutting greenhouse gases. And though it doesn't shift the energy basis of the economy, it does cut down on carbon emissions in absolute terms. When Browne stood up at Stanford this past spring, he was there to report hard numbers: BP had not just met its target -- to reduce its emissions of greenhouse gases by 10 percent below 1990 levels -- it had exceeded it, done so eight years ahead of schedule and with no net economic cost. In fact, because of energy efficiency measures, the emissions reductions amounted to a net gain of $600 million. "And we are not," he told me later, "an inefficient company." 
BP's achievement complicates matters for Bush, who has pronounced the Kyoto Protocol "fatally flawed" because regulating carbon-dioxide emissions "does not make economic sense for America." 
That line of argument does not persuade Browne. "If you say to people, 'Do you want to develop the world and have a good living standard, or do you want a safer environment?' people are terrified by the choice," Browne said to me last spring. "That is a failure of leadership." Speaking of leadership, I asked, what did he think about Bush's position on the issue -- that caps on emissions would be too costly for American businesses? Browne paused, then answered, careful not to mention any names in particular: "Well, it's unfair to the world to say that none of this is possible when it is."
Last summer, bp celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. The company put on a big barbecue; speeches were given. But those celebrations were overshadowed by the fact that BP's North Slope production, which peaked at two million barrels a day in the mid-1980's, has dwindled to less than a million today. As production has declined, BP -- already the largest operator on the slope, with roughly 30 percent of the state's oil-extraction industry -- has lobbied to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to the east and built the first offshore oil projects in the Arctic Ocean to the north. BP's mantra is to make "zero environmental impact" and to leave only a "small industrial footprint." And by most accounts, it does wield its ground-eviscerating equipment with great care. But the bottom line is that BP's stock price -- and its obligations to shareholders -- hinges on locating more oil fields. And any new field, subjected to the drill bit, is a potential insult to the earth.
In the fall of 2000, Browne made it clear that if the Arctic refuge -- an iconic 19-million-acre tract of land in northeast Alaska that is home to polar bears and grizzlies, wolves, musk oxen and a 125,000-strong herd of caribou -- was opened up under a Republican administration, BP would be interested in exploring there. After all, the United States Geological Survey estimates that the refuge contains anywhere from 3 billion to 16 billion barrels of recoverable oil. Again on Feb. 13, 2001, three weeks after Bush took office, Browne acknowledged that BP openly supported efforts to drill.
BP's stated intentions for the refuge happened to coincide with its "Beyond Petroleum" campaign, and environmentalists had a field day pointing out the inconsistencies. Greenpeace announced that until BP started seriously investing in renewables, a more fitting corporate logo would be, in the words of one spokeswoman, "a miserable polar bear on an icecap shrinking because of global warming." John Browne himself was honored by Greenpeace for giving the "Best Impression of an Environmentalist." And referring to the company's interest in the Arctic refuge, The Independent wrote that it was "strange that a company boss with prominent green pretensions should advocate -- openly -- what many people would see as the industrial rape of an unspoiled wilderness."
The protests over BP's position on the Arctic refuge could not have come at a worse time. Just a few months earlier, the company's new advertising campaign was met in some corners with howls of derision and even demonstrations outside its London offices. Stung by the controversy, the company tried to pull several TV spots, and where that time was locked in by contract, BP lost "several million dollars," according to two people involved in the ad campaign. In cases where ads could not be pulled, the company removed the words "Beyond Petroleum." "It's funny," says one of them, "I never doubted that they were the most progressive oil company around, but they didn't think through what it would require from a P.R. point of view. By pulling the ads, they showed weakness rather than having the courage of their convictions, which is what the whole rebranding effort was all about."
Later, when the time came to prepare for the campaign's second phase, BP once again waffled over whether to use the phrase "Beyond Petroleum." "I was in so many meetings when the answer was no, yes, no, yes," says one member of the ad team. And the company's concern over how its P.R. message was being perceived delayed the campaign for more than a year. 
Eventually, the company once again embraced the phrase "Beyond Petroleum." But according to one member of the ad team, BP, fearful of exaggerating its claims and opening itself to further criticism, worried the ad copy to death. "All the definitive points they were making in the ads got slightly watered down," the ad-team member says. Finally, the company decided to use the tag line "It's a start" -- which can sound frank and refreshing or, depending on your point of view, hedging and defensive.
Meanwhile, the issue of whether or not to drill in the Arctic refuge, at a time when BP's Alaska oil reserves are dwindling, still has the company tied up in knots. On the one hand, Browne no longer openly advocates drilling in the refuge, as he did in 2000 and 2001. On the other hand, when asked after his Stanford speech last spring what the company's position was, he disappointed environmentalists by refusing to rule out drilling altogether, saying, "I believe we should have no part in that debate."
A BP consultant on environmental policy says of Browne, "The impression he wants to leave is that it's all a process -- first Congress has to vote for drilling, then the company needs to assess its value, etc., but that even if it's opened, the company probably won't drill." But others who work with the company have privately heard just the opposite. "One of their vice presidents told me flat out," another consultant says, " 'If it's opened, we'll drill."'
BP's position on the refuge is "evolving," according to Ronald Chappell, who was head of press relations for BP Alaska and who now works in its London headquarters. In the early to mid-90's, BP was engaged in lobbying to open the refuge. "But," Chappell says, "I think that the company has sort of decided that the role of corporations in public life is one of standing back and letting governments make decisions, trying to inform public policy but not making political contributions."
But, in fact, the company did make political contributions -- $560,000 through its employee political action committee in 2000, according to a BP spokeswoman. Moreover, at the time that Chappell and I spoke, the company was a member and contributor to Arctic Power, a prodevelopment lobbying group whose Internet site highlights "top 10 reasons to support development in A.N.W.R.," and had a representative on the Arctic Power board. When I pointed this out to Chappell, he demurred, then sought me out a few minutes later, when I happened to be standing with Eileen Claussen of the Pew Center, one of John Browne's closest environmental advisers. "I misspoke," Chappell said to us. "It's true, we give to Arctic Power. We gave $50,000 last year but none so far this year. We also give to the American Petroleum Institute." 
Claussen, looking at him, said what others - including many within the company -- think but will not say out loud: "Shame on you." (Last month, BP withdrew from the group.)
The arctic national Wildlife Refuge, which will once again be vulnerable to industry assault under the new Republican Congressional majority, is just one place BP may be interested in doing business. In recent years, it has also built Northstar, an artificial drilling island in the waters off Prudhoe Bay and the first offshore oil-exploration site in the Arctic Ocean, the oil flowing to the mainland through a six-mile undersea pipeline. And the company owns a 2.2 percent stake in PetroChina, the state-owned firm that is building a controversial pipeline across Tibet. These projects, as well as its interest in the refuge, have all been the subject of shareholder resolutions seeking to force BP to divest, to bring its actions in line with its rhetoric. And the resolutions (and BP's sometimes strong-arm legal tactics to quell them) all point out how difficult it is for an oil company to grow its business without also harming the environment. After violating federal clean-air laws at eight refineries across the country, BP, in January 2001, paid a $10 million penalty and agreed to spend $500 million modernizing its pollution-control technology. After delaying to report that its contractor had illegally dumped hazardous waste in northern Alaska, the company, in 1999, was fined $7 million in civil and criminal penalties. 
It may seem unfair that BP is the target of environmental and social-responsibility movements. Shouldn't Greenpeace et al. be going after Exxon Mobil, which still tries to sow public skepticism toward global warming theories and has reportedly worked behind the scenes to remove a prominent scientist from the United Nations climate change panel and still refuses to pay $5 billion in punitive damages ordered by an Alaska court after the 1989 Valdez oil spill? But BP has, by virtue of its slogans and its actions, tried to seize the moral high ground and so is judged by a different standard.
Browne seems to understand this, and at Stanford last spring he outlined his next set of goals, ambitious by any standard: to reduce global-warming gases from BP's own operations as well as from the products it makes, to maintain CO2 emissions at current levels even as the company doubles its production of oil and gas, to make 50 percent of the company's pump sales worldwide come from clean fuels. Anticipating the future, BP bought Solarex in 1999 for $45 million, making it one of the largest solar companies in the world. It is also participating in fuel-cell technology research efforts with auto and engine manufacturers. And it is testing the viability of other energy sources like wind and hydrogen.
Few question the idea that BP is now the most conscientious oil company around, or that Browne is deeply committed to cleaning up BP's act. One of Browne's closest colleagues suggests that he may go into the climate-change field after he retires from the oil business. Meanwhile, its competitors, according to a Royal Dutch/Shell executive, feel pressed by BP into taking ever-greener positions -- even Exxon Mobil has recently given a grant to Stanford University to study global warming. But while Browne and BP may show greater sensitivity to environmental concerns than any other company in its industry, it may also be impossible for any company that derives well over 90 percent of its revenue from fossil fuels to claim to be part of the solution. Despite its new sunburst logo and "Beyond Petroleum" slogan, BP still invests $12 billion, or 25 times more, on oil and gas than on its wind and solar division for the simple fact that, right now, there's a huge market for oil and almost none for solar panels. And that's not just BP's problem; that's ours. Ronald Chappell, the BP spokesman, says as much when he points out that all those environmentalists flying into the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to save the planet are using up a lot of airplane fuel to do it. "That," he says, "is the devil's bargain we all have made." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The former British Petroleum advertises in Times Square. (Chris Sharp); A BP oil facility in Prudhoe Bay. The company was fined $7 million in 1999 for violations involving the dumping of hazardous waste in northern Alaska.; John Browne, C.E.O. of BP. (F. Carter Smith); A protester in London. (Sion Touhig/Getty Images); BP has spent $200 million worldwide making its image more eco-friendly. (Chris Sharp) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); BRANDING (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ENVIRONMENT; GLOBAL WARMING; WEATHER; GAS (FUEL) 

COMPANY: BP PLC (96%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%) BP PLC 

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (96%); BP (LSE) (96%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (96%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) FREY, DARCY; BROWNE, JOHN (LORD) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



207 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 92

LENGTH: 7112 words

HEADLINE: Just Money 

BYLINE:  By Lisa Belkin; Lisa Belkin is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
In the early days there were the leaflets, thousands of frantically scribbled posters, created of the need to do something. Then there were the funerals, many without bodies to bury, cobbled from a need for structure and ceremony. Now there are the meetings -- with lawyers, with investment counselors and, whenever possible, with Kenneth Feinberg, the special master of the Victim Compensation Fund. Feinberg, the man granted full power by Congress to repay the families of 9/11 victims, came into their lives one year ago, a result of legislation created in the same lurching haze as the leaflets and the funerals, legislation born of the reflex to act. 
 "I cannot make you happy," Feinberg says to a woman at one such meeting -- a mother protesting that her firefighter son's memory is being cheapened by the government's offer of $500,000, far less than a bond broker's family will get. "I cannot bring people back," he says, his elongated vowels betraying his Massachusetts roots. "I can't." 
 "It's not about the money," she answers in her sharper New York tones. "This is not ever about the money." 
But of course it is.
Tragedy, particularly American tragedy, is always and inevitably about the money. As much as we rail against this and insist that it is not true, as much as we would prefer to talk about love and honor and legacy, in the end we find our talk turning to dollars. We do this in part because we need to eat, and to pay the rent, and to continue on with our lives in the face of death. We also do this because cash is the only tangible way to measure infinite loss.
And so, one by one the families take the microphone in meeting after meeting to talk about cash. Feinberg has traveled to tony towns in New Jersey to meet the families of bond traders, to the Bronx to meet the families of laborers, to Staten Island, where the victims were largely police officers and firefighters. The families speak the language of their new universe, this complex world sprung fully formed from one hasty Congressional act. 
They use phrases they had probably never heard a year ago, terms like "collateral offset" (money from other sources, like life insurance) and "presumptive amount" (what their loved one's projected lifetime income looks like on a government chart). Presumptive amount minus collateral offset equals the payment they will get unless they choose to challenge the number; if they appeal, Feinberg is the final arbiter there too. 
"One of my husband's benefits was supposed to be a line-of-duty mayoral payout equivalent to one year's salary," says the wife of a Port Authority security officer when it is her turn at the mike. "I've been told that amount will be deducted as an offset, but I never got it. They never paid it."
"My mother-in-law was murdered 60 days before her 60th birthday," another says. "She was helping to support us. She was healthy. She was vibrant. But your projections assume that she would have stopped at 62 or 65."
"I'm the first wife," another explains. "My ex-husband's will left everything, including his $1 million life insurance policy, to the new wife, and once that is offset, then the children are left with less than $200,000 each for their father's death."
Question after question. But the most important questions are left unasked. How did the government get into the business of saying that one victim's life is worth three times as much as another's? Or that the grief of these families is worth millions, while the grief of other crime victims, or accident victims, or even other terror victims, is not? Should an emissary with unlimited power be granting children money when their father chose to leave them nothing? Should an emissary with unlimited taxpayer funds -- current projections put the cost as high as $6 billion -- have such power over people's lives at all? And what about next time? Are we going to be making these sorts of payoffs -- for that is what they are -- every time we are attacked? 
These are difficult questions to ask, and even harder ones to answer. "The senator will never go on record with that," a Washington aide says after spending half an hour explaining why said senator thinks the plan should not have been passed in the first place.
But around the country -- where as a rule we like to shower victims with charity and then criticize them when they accept it -- people are asking. "I am very bothered by what I perceive as greedy people when it comes to the distribution of funds to the victims of Sept. 11," reads a comment posted on the Victim Compensation Fund's Web site. Another reads: "What about the victims of Oklahoma City, the U.S.S. Cole and the embassies in Africa?"
"However generous the intentions, it's a slippery slope," says Prof. Peter H. Schuck, who teaches tort law at Yale Law School and studies compensation systems. "It's impossible to justify this money in terms of a defined system of justice. We should not be saying that a death caused by one terrorist is worth more than a death caused by another, or that a death caused by a terrorist is worth more than a death caused by a drunk driver. And isn't that what this fund is saying?"
On the evening of Thursday, Sept. 20, 2001, with the country still reeling and the wreckage still smoldering, President Bush addressed a joint session of Congress. A group of Congressional aides barely heard the speech. Instead, they sat huddled over their computers, banging out the language that would become the Victim Compensation Fund. According to key participants in the process, almost no time was spent discussing the moral or the philosophical whys of the plan. There simply wasn't time. The entire $6 billion program took 72 hours, just three days, from Wednesday the 19th through Saturday the 22nd, from first glimmer to presidential signature.
The Victim Compensation Fund was not really created to help the 9/11 families. The bill that authorizes the fund is titled the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, and the victim families are not mentioned until the fourth of six sections. The first draft offered no help to the families at all. They were an afterthought to a bill designed to save the airlines. 
It happened like this: Within days of the attacks, executives at the highest levels of the airline industry informed Congress and the White House that unless the government provided immediate and extensive help, the nation's planes would stop flying. The airlines were in shaky economic shape before 9/11; now their insurance was in danger of being revoked. United Airlines and American Airlines in particular argued that they were in need of help because the threat of lawsuits made it impossible to borrow money that would keep them operating. 
In response, the White House began circulating a proposed $15 billion bailout of the industry. It would provide cash and loans and, most significant, put a cap on liability from lawsuits. Victims' families could sue, but damages would be limited to the insurance carried by each plane, for a total of less than $7 billion. (Compare this with current damage estimates, which amount to $40 billion.) 
About midday on Wednesday, Sept. 19, a week and a day after the attacks, lobbyists for the Association of Trial Lawyers of America approached Representative Richard Gephardt and Senators Patrick Leahy and Tom Daschle with a counterproposal. "You can't just take away their rights and not replace them with something else," one lobbyist recalls saying. They suggested that victims' families who waived their rights to sue be entitled to a payment from the government equal to the monetary damages that would result from such a suit. This plan was adopted by the Democrats, who proposed to fold it into the Air Transportation Safety Act.
The Republicans resisted, but the Democrats made their vote for the bailout contingent on inclusion of victim compensation. Because the plan was a replacement for the tort system, they said, it should operate like the tort system, taking projected lifetime earnings into account. When talk briefly turned to the high price tag that would result, Daschle reportedly ended the discussion by asking: "Do you want to put a value on human life right now? I don't."
When the president finished speaking that evening, the Congressional leadership and their aides gathered in Speaker of the House J. Dennis Hastert's office to work out the details long into the night. The Democrats wanted the fund to be overseen by a senior judge subject to Senate confirmation. The Republicans instead wanted a special master appointed by the attorney general -- a special master with sweeping powers, whose decisions could not be appealed -- and that's what they got. 
What they presented to the public and the rest of Congress the following morning was a plan with no precedent. Nothing in the history of the country is comparable to the system of compensation set in place during those three hectic days. Never before had the government made such payments to victims of an attack -- not after Pearl Harbor or Oklahoma City, not after the attack on the Marine barracks in Lebanon or even after the first World Trade Center bombing.
Nor has the country ever paid money in this way to victims of natural disasters or epidemics. There have been occasional compensation programs -- for uranium miners exposed to radiation, for instance, or for soldiers exposed to Agent Orange -- but not with payments anywhere as large as these. American survivors of the Holocaust were compensated, but by the country that wronged them, not by the United States. And our government, in turn, has paid foreigners it has wronged -- like the families of those who died in the Chinese Embassy in Serbia when it was erroneously targeted by American bombs. But nothing like this had ever been done before. 
On the evening of Sept. 21, 2001, hours after it was finalized in Hastert's office, the Air Transportation Safety Act passed the House by a vote of 356 to 54 and the Senate by 96 to 1. 
The message, as it stood that day, was therefore this: If your death involves an industry that the government feels compelled to protect, you're in luck. But if it's an industry that the government would let go under, you are on your own.
On the day the compensation plan became law, Kathleen Treanor was traveling back and forth across the Hudson River, escorting grieving families who were viewing ground zero for the first time. Every trip to the site, every hug for a new widow, brought back searing memories of her own loss. Her 4-year-old daughter, Ashley, had been with her in-laws, Luther and LaRue, who were running an errand in the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995; they were among the 168 who died in what had been, until Sept. 11, the worst terrorist attack on American soil.
Treanor spent Sept. 11 in front of her television "weeping for the people who were dying and the people who loved them. I knew what they were going through now. I knew what they were going to go through for years and years."
She thought of P.J. Allen, 18 months old at the time of the Oklahoma blast, who survived with blackened lungs; he still can't go to school for fear of infection, and he and his grandmother live on Social Security and financial aid from the Red Cross. She thought of Brandon Denny, 3 at the time; Brandon was left with severe brain damage. She thought of Tim Hearn, who gave up a scholarship to come back home and raise his orphaned siblings; he was working three jobs at one point and, until the Red Cross stepped in to help recently, was on the verge of losing his home.
And now, she thought, there were going to be thousands more Dennys and Allens and Hearns. Rallying, Treanor contacted the Red Cross (she had come to know many of the volunteers well) and said: "You have to get me to New York. These people need me." It was from one of the families, while standing on a boat in New York Harbor, that she first heard about the planned 9/11 compensation fund.
Until that moment, she says, "I didn't really buy into this whole victim-compensation idea." Her own family lost her father-in-law's farm after he died, and they were still paying off his debts. She had had to ask a charity worker for money for schoolbooks for her remaining children. Still, she said, she had always thought that "it wasn't the government's responsibility to make everything right."
But at that moment in New York, she changed her mind. Equal treatment for Oklahoma City families became her single-minded cause. "How come you didn't stand up for us?" she asked in repeated phone calls to the Oklahoma Congressional delegation. "Why is it right for a New York stockbroker's widow to be given millions of dollars and not a poor farmer's family in Oklahoma? It's been nearly eight years since the Oklahoma City bombing. It took them days to pass this legislation. Why is my daughter worth less than these people?"
Treanor founded a group called Fairness for OKC and has gone from House to Senate and back with the attorney and lobbyists she hired. "All we heard was no, no, no," she says of the Republicans. "They all said they were afraid of opening the barn door and letting everybody in." The Democrats were more sympathetic, but she still got nowhere.
So she fought harder. Noting that the World Trade Center families were being paid to prevent lawsuits against the airlines, she drafted a lawsuit of her own -- against the United States government. "Timothy McVeigh perpetrated his crime as a sole result of the bungling by the government in Waco and Ruby Ridge," she says. "So was the government culpable in what happened here in Oklahoma? They've admitted they'd done some things very wrong. You could make the argument that they were somewhat guilty."
Her lawsuit also questions the legitimacy of protection for a single set of terror victims. "The 14th Amendment guarantees equal protection under the law," she says. "This is not equal. They told me that my daughter was not worth as much as a New York victim, and that's an ugly, ugly thing to say."
Treanor's voice was soon joined by others. "I don't begrudge those people getting a nickel," says Howard Kavaler, a retired foreign service officer, whose wife, Prabhi, was among the 12 killed and two dozen injured in the bombing of the American Embassy in Nairobi on Aug. 7, 1998, when their children were 5 and 10. "But what do I tell my daughters? Your mother didn't count?"
For four years, Kavaler and the other embassy families have been petitioning the State Department for $1.5 million in compensation for each victim (which is the same amount the United States government paid to those killed in the Chinese Embassy in Serbia). They claim that Secretary of State Madeleine Albright failed to act on warnings that the Nairobi embassy and the embassy in Tanzania, which was attacked the same day, were "sitting ducks," as Kavaler puts it. He and the other embassy families say they will sign away their right to sue on those grounds in return for being grandfathered into the 9/11 fund.
Families of sailors on the U.S.S. Cole have also asked to be included, as have relatives of the six people who died in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. There has been some talk of including the victims of the anthrax letters as well. "It's begun to look like a Christmas tree," says one Senate aide of the fund. "Everyone wants to hang something on it."
Each of these groups has an argument for why they are deserving. As is the way of these things, the arguments that serve to include them simultaneously serve to exclude someone else. "Just like the trade center, ours was an attack on American soil," Treanor says, implying that this gives the Oklahoma City families a claim the others do not have. "And like the trade center, most of the victims were civilians," she continues, leaving unstated the comparison with embassy and military victims.
"We were the first victims of Al Qaeda," responds Kavaler, who is more direct. "Oklahoma City is completely different. McVeigh and Nichols were just home-grown malcontents. They were criminals. Where do you draw the line?"
As for those on the U.S.S. Cole, he says, "They had weapons; my wife didn't."
In May, by an overwhelming 391 to 18, the House voted to include the embassy bombing victims into the Sept. 11 fund. The vote was seen as the first step to including other groups, but neither that bill nor any other has as yet been passed by the Senate. Technically, the legislation is being held up over the question of lawyers' fees. The 9/11 fund included no caps on fees, but members of the Judiciary Committee say they are troubled that some lawyers are charging contingency fees for an application process that shouldn't even require a lawyer. The Association of Trial Lawyers of America -- which is providing free legal help to many of the victims -- says that this is a red herring and that the real reason is that Congress is loath to expand the fund and therefore the precedent. 
In one of the many interesting wrinkles and reversals by politicians on this subject, the sponsor of the embassy bill in the House was Representative Roy Blunt. Months earlier, however, when asked why those same victims were not included in the 9/11 fund, he replied: "Well, a lot of things in life are not fair, and this may turn out to be one of them. Some unlucky victims are more unlucky than others."
In the world according to Kenneth Feinberg, the Victim Compensation Fund raises two fundamental questions. The first is asked by people who are not included under the law. "Dear Mr. Feinberg," he says, reciting examples of comments he has heard, "My husband died in the World Trade Center in '93. Why aren't I eligible?" "Dear Mr. Feinberg, Last year my husband saved three little girls from drowning in the Mississippi River, and then he went under and died, a hero -- why aren't I eligible?" "Dear Mr. Feinberg, Last year I got rear-ended by a hit-and-run driver and got laid up for six months. Where's my $1.8 million?"
His answer to this sweeping philosophical question -- why is one group of victims more deserving than others -- is simple. "Congress decided," he says. And he is but the executor of that decision.
The second question is asked by the families who are eligible. Why, they wonder, are some among them worth more in death than others? At first blush, Feinberg's answer to this question is the same: Congress decided. The act could have given the same "award" (a disconcerting term in this context, making it seem as if the survivors had won a prize) to every family. Instead, the rules specify that the special master is to repay each family for its "economic losses," defined as "the loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment, medical expense loss, replacement-services loss, loss due to death, burial costs and loss of business or employment opportunities." In other words, he is bound by statute to treat every victim differently. Then, the statute continues, he must subtract from that number the offsets agreed to in the late-night negotiation -- specifically "life insurance, death benefits and pension funds."
But despite his insistence that he is just the messenger, Feinberg is permitted a remarkable degree of discretion within those limits. His decisions include setting the exact formulas of the payouts and adjusting each award as circumstances warrant. 
When he was first appointed last year, the feeling in Washington was that he was perfectly suited to wield such power. A former chief of staff for Senator Edward Kennedy ("The last thing you want is a buddy of the president's in that job," says Senator Chuck Hagel, a Republican from Nebraska, who recommended Feinberg to Attorney General John Ashcroft in the first place), he negotiated a settlement in the seemingly intractable Agent Orange case, served as special master in the DES case and negotiated for Dow Corning when it was sued by 450,000 women over breast implants.
In some respects, this is the simplest case he has wrestled with. "Qualitatively, these are all traumatic deaths and injuries," he says. "This isn't a question of 'Did the chemical cause the cancer or did the medical device cause the injury?' The causation here is pretty much a given."
But there are two central differences between huge tort cases and these cases. The first, Feinberg says, clipped and brusque as always, is "the raw emotion": "There's never been a mass case like this, where the compensation scheme is created so soon after the triggering event, where the emotion is so new. Most of these cases take years to percolate up the ladder. By the time I got to Agent Orange, it was eight years in litigation."
The second difference is that in previous cases the goal of the court was to create a pot and then divide it among the plaintiffs. But this legislation does not put a cap on spending. This pot is unlimited, its size dependent only on the special master's decisions, and the division of it is, by definition, unequal.
In the year since he was appointed, Feinberg has used his discretion to make some choices that may or may not have been what Congress intended. At least one person present at the birth of the fund, for instance, says that Congress intended charity received by the families to be offset. 
And at first that's what Feinberg thought he would do. But the charitable organizations, he says, made it very clear that if he did subtract charity, they would "hold up distributing the charitable money until I cut each family's check," he says, "so they wouldn't be subsidizing the taxpayer." He chuckles. "I blinked. I'm not going to hold up $2.5 billion worth of charity. So they won that round on a technical knockout. I gave in on that one, as wisely I should."
He also "blinked," if you will, on some of his numbers. In a preliminary set of regulations he released in January, he allowed $50,000 to a surviving spouse and each surviving child over and above the amount paid for projected lifetime earnings. In the final regulations, released in April after months of heated comments from families and their representatives, he raised that amount to $100,000. Similarly, he decided to use national averages for calculating the costs to be subtracted from those earnings projections -- the amounts that would have been spent by the victims on housing, transportation and food had they survived to earn that projected salary -- rather than average costs from the New York area, which would have been higher.
In other areas, however, he refused to blink, most notably on the decision to work from presumptive income tables. (Enter victim's age, salary, number of dependents, get a ballpark figure.) He also would not vary the amount added to each award for pain and suffering. Except in very rare cases (involving, for example, a second death in the family), it is $250,000 per victim, regardless of the specific and horrific details of each death. "I refuse to make distinctions," he says. "I refuse to go down the road of 'He was on the 103rd floor and died a slow death; she was on the 84th floor and was killed instantly.' I'm not getting into that."
He seems far less certain of how he will act on the final remaining question: What to do about the highest earners -- those whose salaries were more than $231,000 a year. It is unclear exactly how many there were, but data supplied by the investment firm Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost 658 people in the tragedy, suggest that in that company alone about a quarter of the employees fell into this group in 2001. The charts posted on the compensation fund's Web site, however, do not include these victims. Feinberg has so far released no estimates of what they will receive, because, he says, he cannot decide. Neither the limiting details of the law nor the expansive powers it provides give him the answer he needs.
"It's a problem," he says. "It's a philosophic problem, and it's a financial problem. What to do with some of these people -- the Cantor Fitzgerald people or the Sandler O'Neill people -- with incomes of a million or two million. Are there no limitations? If somebody is earning $1 million a year, and you run the model, and they could, after offsets, get $10 million -- should the taxpayer and this program subsidize a $10 million lifestyle and a $10 million tax-free award? Should 15 percent of the people get 85 percent of the money? That isn't what Congress intended. If Congress had thought this through for more than a few hours, I don't believe that's what they would have said."
It is this last question, he says, that makes him wonder about the wisdom of the entire fund. Not that he disagrees with paying the victims' families, he says, but he does struggle with paying them in this way.
Should it be the goal of the government to give families everything they might have had if their loved one had not died, he asks, or should it instead be the goal to try to help, to provide enough money to get them on their feet again? "If I were writing the program today -- and I don't fault Congress; they were acting under the gun -- I would have clarified the public-policy foundation," he says. "Is it tort or is it social welfare? And I'd think long and hard about this: Is a flat sum better than variations? I think perhaps it might be."
From where Cantor Fitzgerald sits -- in new Midtown offices that seem temporary and empty, although they are neither -- it looks as if Feinberg is revising and reinterpreting the law through a prism of his own reservations and doubts. A sense of responsibility for the dead permeates everything in these offices. Photos of lost colleagues smile out from picture frames on desktops. On one wall hangs a photograph of 13 senior executives, only 6 of whom are still alive. That sense of responsibility is leading Cantor to question and confront Feinberg's every choice. 
In a backhanded way, Cantor executives agree with Feinberg that the fund could have been constructed differently. Congress, they say, could have given each family a set amount, or put a cap on the awards, but it did not. "We have never argued that it was a brilliant piece of legislation," says Stephen Merkel, Cantor's general counsel. "That said, the law was passed, and it must be enforced. The Department of Justice and the special master don't have the power to change it just because they don't like it."
Days after Feinberg's appointment, he had lunch with Merkel. "I asked, 'What can I tell the families?"' Merkel remembers. "Ken said, 'You can tell the families that I consider myself their fiduciary.' And he has repeated this sentiment in subsequent meetings. Unfortunately, I think that his loyalties have switched and that he now thinks his mission is to persuade people to take awards under a horribly flawed methodology, severely undercompensating the families but saving the government millions."
Cantor is hardly the only force wrestling with Feinberg over the specifics of the fund. Charles Wolf, whose wife worked at the financial-services firm Marsh & McLennan Companies, has been particularly vocal, creating a Web site called Fixthefund.org, on which he accuses Feinberg of deliberately underpaying victims. Sally Regenhard has become a de facto spokeswoman for the grieving parents of single firefighters and says that she fears her son is being devalued because his story is not as gripping as that of parents with young children. Lawyers who specialize in airplane disasters -- like Lee Kreindler, who says that the tort system would pay twice what the special master is paying -- are also out front in this fight. But Cantor lost more employees than any company in the trade center -- their 658 deaths account for 25 percent of the total New York count -- and as a result it has more clout, responsibility and visibility.
On Sept. 17 of this year, Cantor made public an 80-page document questioning dozens of Feinberg's decisions. Many of the arguments apply to all the families, regardless of where the victim worked. For instance, the report questions Feinberg's decision to offset the taxes a victim would have paid on his projected salary and challenges Feinberg's defense of that decision by invoking federal law. In the legislation that created the fund, the report argues, Congress mandated that state law should prevail whenever it conflicted with federal law, and in New York, where the overwhelming majority of the victims died, taxes are not offset from a death or injury settlement. The total difference to the cost of the fund, experts estimate, would exceed $1 billion. (A family's award, after offsets, is not taxable under either state or federal law.)
At the heart of the Cantor rebuttal, however, is that the charts chosen by Feinberg do not accurately reflect the potential earning power of Cantor employees. In other words, the projected lifetime-income numbers, before any offsets, are wrong, they say. The Cantor culture was unlike the more traditional insurance companies and government agencies with which they shared a building, and salaries jumped at a more rapid yearly clip (even, they argue, in recession years) than Feinberg's projections reflected. 
Feinberg has publicly welcomed Cantor's revisions, but he also knows well that public support for the plan fades as the arguments center more and more on money. He is not shy about pointing that out to those who seek the largest amounts. "I saw a lawyer the other day, and he said, 'My client wants $12 million,"' he says. "I said, 'That client's not getting $12 million.' He said, 'Well, then, he'll litigate.' I said: 'Go ahead. Go litigate. And do me a favor, hold a press conference, O.K.? And tell everyone how that $4 million I was willing to give you was too low, and say you wanted 12. Go on national TV and all the networks and let people know how unfair Feinberg's been in not giving you $12 million."'
Twelve days after the collapse of two of the tallest buildings in the world, there was an explosion at the deepest mine shafts in the country. The twin towers went straight up, 110 stories each; the Blue Creek No. 5 mine went straight down, roughly 210 stories underground. The calamity that unfolded in Brookwood, Ala., on Sept. 23, 2001, took place in two parts: first, a falling rock apparently struck a battery charger and ignited a pocket of methane gas, damaging the ventilation system. Next, some 45 minutes later, a much larger explosion was apparently caused by methane mixing with fresh air as a result of the damaged ventilation shafts. Thirteen miners were killed, and 12 of them died when they raced into the burning tunnel after the first explosion to help a miner who was trapped. The underground fire smoldered for weeks.
Aside from the eerie parallels to the World Trade Center, the story of Blue Creek No. 5 is striking because the country barely noticed. This was the largest mining accident in the United States in nearly 20 years, but the nation's gaze was fixed on another drama, and the nation's psyche was too saturated for any more tears. What happened in Brookwood, Ala., therefore, is what usually happens in America when disaster strikes -- a smaller audience bears witness and then moves on.
The miners' widows say their hearts went out to the families of 9/11 on the day the towers fell. "He wrote 'airplane' with a black marker on the calendar on Sept. 11," says Wanda Blevins, of her husband, David, who was a miner for 34 years. And since their own fiery tragedy, the widows say that they feel for the earlier victims even more.
Important people stopped into town to eulogize the dead miners using metaphors from the trade center. "Just yesterday," said Elaine Chao, the secretary of labor, when she spoke at a Brookwood memorial service, "I was in New York, standing at the spot that the entire world now knows as ground zero. And this afternoon, I visited another ground zero not very far from here. In both places we have seen images of destruction that have forever seared our memory. And in the deepest darkness of these tragedies, we have also seen the best that America has to offer."
After the speeches were over, however, it was the widows of Brookwood who lived the similarities of Sept. 11. They came to understand what it meant to wait for a body to be brought up from underground and what it's like to retrieve only part of one. "Joe was down there for 46 days before his body was retrieved," says Betty Riggs, who is haunted by the image of her husband's decomposed remains. "When I buried him, he weighed 100 pounds. Before he died, he was 180 pounds. I got my husband's autopsy. I've wished a million times I had not read it."
"You get out of bed in the morning and you just pray for the night to come so you can go back to bed," says Blevins, who has still not returned to her job as a nurse in a dermatology office. "You live on pills."
Like many in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, the Brookwood families are financially vulnerable. "The house needs a new roof," says Linda Mobley, who was married to Dennis for almost 40 years. "The flooring needs to be replaced. He isn't here to handle that."
In contrast to the tragedy of Sept. 11, there is no federal program, however confusing and controversial, to help. There is a fund -- the No. 5 Mine Memorial Trust Fund -- which was created with the donations received right after the explosion, mostly from around Alabama. Jim Walter Resources, which owns the mine, said it would accept and then match all contributions, for a total of $1.28 million. That should divide out to a bit less than $100,000 per family, but the widows say they have seen nothing close to that.
"They made us a small disbursement a year ago Thanksgiving," Mobley says -- a disbursement the company says was about $19,000. "And there were other, smaller disbursements for people who made specific requests. But to get that money, it was on an as-needed basis, and we had to fill out a form: Do you have drinking water? Do you have a car to drive? Do you have indoor plumbing? Our neighbors, friends, strangers donated to this fund. It's none of Jim Walter's business if I have indoor plumbing. The money is for us, but aren't you greedy for asking for it."
Kyle Parks, a spokesman for the company, says that I.R.S. requirements mean that some of the money must be set aside for victims of future mining accidents, which is why the entire amount has not been disbursed. He adds, writing in an e-mail message, that "J.W.R. covered the funeral costs for the 13 families" and "provided the following benefits: lifelong health insurance unless a widow remarries or earns more than $2,000 a month, $110,000 in life insurance and two months' pay. (The first two benefits are as called for in the union contract; two months' pay is not included in the contract.)"
In addition, the widows of the miners are receiving $549 a week in workers' compensation for their husbands, and some, whose husbands were near retirement age, are entitled to a partial pension.
Talk of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon roils already raw emotions in Brookwood. "That 9/11 thing overshadowed everything," Mobley says. "I can sympathize and understand what a disaster that was. But we were terribly overlooked. My husband was a hero, too. I don't want him to be forgotten like he was never here."
A few months ago the company offered each family $29,000 more. In exchange, the families were asked to sign an agreement not to sue the company over how the money was disbursed. Only two of the families have accepted. Altogether, 10 families have filed 11 wrongful-death lawsuits against the company, alleging a pattern of safety violations at the mine (a pattern the company denies). 
"It's not about the money," says Mobley, who is among those who have filed suit. "I don't want this to happen to anyone else's husband. I want the company to make things safer. But money is the only thing you are allowed to sue for."
It is an uncomfortable truth to admit, but it is about the money. 
In America, at this moment, money has come to stand not only for what it can buy -- security, revenge -- but also for what cannot be bought. Living through the crucible of tragedy is something only those who have done it can understand. This must be true, because time and time again we see victims act in ways that seem obsessive and masochistic to those on the outside looking in. It's not about the money, they say, while pursuing money with a single-mindedness that is puzzling to everyone else.
"We have made money a surrogate for tragedy," says Philip K. Howard, a lawyer, who does not represent any 9/11 victims and is the author of "The Collapse of the Common Good: How America's Lawsuit Culture Undermines Our Freedom." "But we learn and relearn that it is not a very good surrogate."
"Victims fight for the money, but even as they do it, they feel their suffering isn't adequately recognized," Peter Schuck of Yale says. "It's human nature. Suffering is such a totalizing experience. You can't allow yourself to suggest the wrong has ever been repaid."
This is not the pattern everywhere in the world. In Israel, for example, more than 500 people have died in terrorist attacks since Sept. 11 of last year. That country has a population of six million, making it roughly one-fiftieth the size of the United States. Proportionately, then, these deaths would be like 25,000 people dying in the United States -- the equivalent of one Sept. 11 every month or two. And this does not include the almost 5,000 people injured since the intifada began.
And yet there are no lawsuits -- not the type that Congress feared would be brought against the airlines. There have not been waves of lawsuits against the companies that owned the buses on which some victims were killed or the pizza parlors and catering halls where others died. There have been lawsuits of another kind -- brought against Yasir Arafat and the Palestinian Authority, charging that they provided the funds to launch these attacks. But the first of these was not filed until a little less than three years ago. "People don't sue the bus companies, although they are very angry at them," says Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, the lawyer who brought those first suits (and is now handling more than 100 more). "In a time of war, you have to go after your real enemies. The bus companies did not intend to kill any Israelis."
Those 500 Israeli families were not left with nothing, however. The survivors of every "hostile action" against Israel are well cared for by the government and receive the same compensation as the families of soldiers killed in battle: a monthly payment equivalent to the average national monthly salary (more if they have more than two children), education for their children and a lifetime of psychological care. "Unfortunately, we have a lot of experience doing this," says Aviva Abrahami, who was an administrator in Israel's equivalent of Social Security for 32 years and now lives in New York. "Our experience is something the Americans can learn from."
And it seems that we have a lot to learn. At the very least, we have gone into this backward. When asked, "Why are we paying the Sept. 11 families?" Congress answered, "To save the airlines." And when asked, "Why aren't we paying the victims of other attacks?" Congress is saying: "Because lawyers would take too large a share. Because it would cost too much. Because it would never end."
No doubt all of this is true, but these are not reasons, Abrahami and others warn, that will satisfy history. Or the 9/11 families. As of the last week in November, only 820 applications for compensation had been received by Feinberg's office, about 25 percent of the total number eligible to apply. 
Among those who have not yet applied is Jacqui Eaton, whose 37-year-old husband, Robert, worked for eSpeed. She is waiting to see what Feinberg decides about the earners at the top of his charts. "We're made to feel bad for wanting everything that was promised by Congress," says Eaton, who explains that her husband misread his company insurance policy and left her only $100,000. "When we were paying 50 percent of our money to the government in taxes, did anyone have a problem with that?" 
Ellen Mariani, whose husband, Neil, 58, died aboard United Airlines Flight 175, has also not applied. Instead, she has filed the very type of lawsuit the fund was created to prevent. More than 150 such suits have been filed so far, against the airlines, the Port Authority and the security companies at the airports. "It's not money I'm after, or I would take their package," says Mariani, whose husband left no life insurance and little savings. "I want answers. I want justice. I want it investigated so it doesn't happen that way again." 
Lynn McGuinn is also waiting, holding out the possibility of suing the special master himself, on the grounds that he has misapplied the law. She was left with three children and no life insurance (the unsigned policy, for $1 million, was on her insurance broker's desk on 9/11) after the death of her husband, Frank, 48, who worked at Cantor. "Congress put all this power in the hands of one man," she says. "They say his word is final." Because the process requires families to sign away their rights to sue before Feinberg calculates their final compensation package, "it's like playing 'Let's Make a Deal,"' she says. "We don't get to know what's behind door No. 3."
And so the question remains: How did we get here? How did we get to this deeply flawed policy, creating so much frustration for families struggling in the present and with no plan for the future? 
We got here, I would argue, because we never paused for a key philosophical debate. It takes more than three days to face the kind of questions that arise from a different sort of war. What is our government's responsibility for its citizens -- and what are the limits of that responsibility? Is it the government's role to compensate victims in the first place? And if so, exactly how? 
Are we a country like Israel that accepts the inevitability of such deaths and treats compensation matter-of-factly, as a way to address a surviving family's basic needs? Or is money for us a metaphor, meant to signal our regret? 
Is our collective compassion triggered equally by all deaths, or only by those caused by forces beyond our borders? Is it numbers that make the difference? Three thousand dead requires national action? One hundred sixty-eight does not?
These are not easy questions and will not yield easy answers. But they must be asked -- and answered -- because, inevitably, we'll have to face them again. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oklahoma City, 2002: Kathleen Treanor, center, and her family. Being excluded from compensation tells Treanor, who lost her 4-year-old daughter, Ashley, in the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Building, that Ashley is "not worth as much as a New York victim, and that's an ugly, ugly thing to say."; Brooklyn, 2002: Spouses of W.T.C. victims, from left: Jacqui Eaton, whose husband worked for eSpeed; Charles Wolf, who runs the Web site Fixthefund.org; Lynn McGuinn, whose husband worked at Cantor Fitzgerald, with a daughter.; Washington, 2002: Howard Kavaler, whose wife was killed in the American Embassy bombing in Nairobi, with his two daughters. (Katy Grannan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); FAMILY (89%); HIJACKING (79%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (77%); BONDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MAYORS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); TERRORISM (71%); BOND MARKETS (68%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%) SEPT 11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND; YALE UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA; FEINBERG, KENNETH; SCHUCK, PETER H (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); KENYA (59%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



208 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 88

LENGTH: 3019 words

HEADLINE: The Bard of Omaha 

BYLINE:  By John Hodgman; John Hodgman is a writer in New York City.

 BODY:
Alexander Payne drives fast in Omaha, both because he knows it well and because he wants to show it off. He shows me Dundee, the tidy grove of modest two-story homes where he grew up and where his parents still live. He shows me the Dundee Theater, where he also grew up, in the dark, watching movies. 
 As we cruise through one of the city's growing Mexican-American neighborhoods, he merrily reads aloud the passing signs: " 'Salon Lecheria'!" he cries. "Over three movies, and having to scout so many locations, I have seen so much of Omaha, and I am constantly surprised by what I find, the people I meet -- 'La Carne Fresca'! -- so I love this." 
 Many people love their hometown, but when Payne talks about Omaha, he speaks with a vim and an earnestness that's occasionally disarming. Sometimes he is so eager to show me around that he takes a turn too fast and his Audi scoots up over the curb. "One great thing about this area is just how beautiful and treesy it is and just nice," he says as we swoop through a neighborhood known as Happy Hollow. Arbor Day was invented in Nebraska, he tells me, and though I am glad to know this, it is not the sort of thing I expected to learn from a man who made the abortion comedy "Citizen Ruth" in 1996 and who co-wrote and directed the gleefully blackhearted satire "Election" in 1999. 
Both films were set and shot here, as was his latest, "About Schmidt," which made the film-festival rounds and opens in New York and Los Angeles -- and Omaha -- this Friday. Originally based on a Louis Begley novel set in the Hamptons, under Payne's direction the story moved to Omaha, where it became a purely Nebraskan odyssey, with Jack Nicholson as a recent widower Winnebago-ing across the state to attend his daughter's wedding. 
But "About Schmidt" will be his last Midwestern film, at least for now. His errand this weekend: to start packing up the apartment he has lived in on and off since 1997 and send his things out to Hollywood.
"In a sense, 'Schmidt' is the most Omaha of my films," Payne says as we drive. "But have I gotten it right? I'm not sure. Did Fellini get Rome right? Did Ozu get Tokyo right?"
But we all understand Rome -- just as we all own a share of Woody Allen's Manhattan, or at least the versions of those cities conjured by cinema. No one owns Omaha the way Alexander Payne does, though. And few would know if he has really managed to get it right.
Then we come to the intersection of 50th and Underwood. "I try to get this intersection into every movie," he says. We slow to a crawl as we pass a small market, a tiny parking lot, some dumpsters. 
It's a surprising slice of Omaha to showcase: a little grungy and certainly untreesy. Here is where Nicholson's Schmidt throws away his dead wife's clothes in a rage, where Matthew Broderick's high-school civics teacher casually tosses the nominating signatures of the ambitious candidate he despises in "Election." It is the alley where Laura Dern's Ruth tosses herself out with an aerosol can of patio sealant to huff her way into oblivion in "Citizen Ruth."
In short, a dumping ground. Though Payne's affection for the city is genuine, here is where I first understand that he sees it with a kind of double vision. On the most painfully bright day, he cannot help but see the dark corners -- and what the Midwest might rather throw away.
'Citizen Ruth" follows an inhalant-loving deadbeat who, when she learns she is pregnant, pinballs between both sides of the abortion debate. Payne wrote it in 1992 with Jim Taylor, a non-Omahan who rented a room in Payne's apartment as Payne was finishing film school in 1990 and has since become his close collaborator on all three films. Ruth is sublimely self-involved yet completely un-self-aware; like all of Payne's protagonists, she is not easy to like. And unlike typical Hollywood antiheroes, she does not evolve in the third act into the huffer-with-a-heart-of-gold we halfway expect. The film ends with Ruth unchanged, sneaking down the road with a briefcase full of cash, having played both the pro-lifers and pro-choicers for fools.
"There's a bizarre insistence on how a story should be," Payne says. "The protagonist must be sympathetic!' they say. Whatever that means. I never engage in that discussion. I never use that word, 'sympathetic.' I just know 'interesting."'
If anything, Payne wishes "Citizen Ruth" had been more vicious. "I had in mind a certain ferocity when we were writing it that I associate with Billy Wilder's 'Ace in the Hole' or Bunuel's 'Viridiana."'
When it comes to movies, Payne is a passionate obscurist and something of a nostalgic. He is a devoted fan of silent comedy. When a Fox executive offered to do him a favor, any favor, Payne asked for a VHS dupe of Bertolucci's long-out-of-print "Luna." The Italian neo-realists -- Antonioni and, especially, Fellini -- loom high in his pantheon of what he calls "the film gods," and he playfully defies me to name four classic films released since 1980. "Raging Bull' doesn't count," he says, "because Scorsese was still making it in the 70's." 
Somehow I sense that my first thought, "The Empire Strikes Back," is not an acceptable answer. 
"We always made wonderful movies," he says, talking about Americans. "But in the 70's, it was suddenly real people up there. You saw your world on the screen, not some fake kind of thing. Even 'McCabe and Mrs. Miller,' one of my favorite 70's movies: those were real people out West. And we've come away from that."
"He's a true cinephile," says the director Jim Jarmusch, who got to know Payne this year at Cannes, where "About Schmidt" had its festival premiere. He knows his stuff, Jarmusch says, "unlike a lot of younger directors who turn out to be hustlers, just pretenders." 
Perhaps it is because he knows his stuff -- because there is a classicism to his work, its roots in high cinema more than low culture -- that he seems at once so sensitive and also vulnerable to studio interference. His colleagues sometimes speak of him as if he were an endangered animal.
"Black humor is a tough sell," Jack Nicholson says. "If you're not making essentially youthful films, you're taking chances. Alexander is a real throwback to the kinds of moviemakers I started with."
"Ruth" was followed by "Election," which earned Payne and Taylor an Oscar nomination for best adapted screenplay. "Election" follows a high-school civics teacher who ruins his career and marriage as he is drawn ever more deeply into a rigged high-school election. It is a carefully structured film, full of competing voice-overs, repeated visual motifs (almost every shot includes a garbage can) and clever grace notes. And if its formal inventiveness sometimes feels icily detached, it is paradoxically balanced by the warmth of a single mind at work. A sense of purpose looms in every frame, right next to the garbage can. Payne's films don't apologize for their smartness.
Or better, their smart aleckiness. It's a term that Payne uses twice when I'm with him, and it describes him well: a polite, well-raised, A-student kind of fellow who handwrites his thank-you notes but who just can't keep himself from swiping at the things he obviously loves -- whether it's pulling Jack Nicholson's pants down in "About Schmidt," giving Matthew Broderick a bee sting on the eye in "Election" or poking at Omaha itself.
Slim and good-looking, with dark eyes and a newly short haircut, Payne is a young-seeming 41, exuberant and restlessly curious, with an unashamed intelligence and a natural comedic brio. ("It is I, Alexander Payne," he says when calling me on the phone.) He has a habit of making scholarly-sounding pronouncements that, like his films, hover weirdly between joke and dead seriousness, such as "Omaha, like Rome, is built on seven hills." 
He always wanted to shoot in Omaha. When he graduated from U.C.L.A.'s film program in 1990, he was already something of a star: an intense, scholarly filmmaker who slept in his editing room. He quickly struck a deal with Universal, but turned down several commercial scripts and began work instead on a screenplay called "The Coward," the story of an aging Omaha man who leaves his wife suddenly to set out on a "futile journey of self-discovery." But Universal didn't want to make it.
"Nobody had done Omaha before," he told me as we strolled through Memorial Park, atop one of those seven hills. "I thought it would be fun."
That's one explanation. Payne's reason for making movies in America's anonymous middle is not something he's eager to pin down. He talks about wanting to "pour some money into the local economy," but that doesn't quite seem to nail it either. "If you're trying to recreate life, the life that you best know is the one you grew up with," he says. "I hadn't seen the Midwest in a movie. I'd never seen it. I wanted to see it. It was as simple as that. I hadn't seen it. I wanted to capture it. But it's elusive."
When I ask him what has eluded him, that's when he starts showing me statues. "Here," he says, "let me show you how ridiculous this memorial is." He walks me over to the city's Korean and Vietnam war memorial: a gargantuan American soldier, one hand outstretched to the horizon and the other on the shoulder of a child. "Here's the white guy showing the little Asian boy the way," Payne says. "It's a complete disaster. How tacky is that? But here it sits, kind of unquestioned."
There's a smile in his voice as he says it, an affection both for the failure of the image and for its good intentions. But most of all, he seems to love that, here in the middle of the park, it goes unseen. It is this strangeness-in-plain-sight that infects all of his films and crystallizes, for Payne, a distinct strain of American daily life -- one that is both actually and metaphorically central. 
"It's as if there's something slightly grotesque in the Midwest that appeals to him," explains Tom Perrotta, author of the novel "Election." "His movies are certainly not a paean to wholesome Midwestern values."
Verisimilitude is important to Payne. For Schmidt's home, he reproduced the interior of a Happy Hollow house, even down to the wallpaper (recreated at great expense by Hollywood specialists). In the end, Payne estimates it cost as much to build the house on stage as it would have to buy it. He regularly uses untrained actors. The countergirl at the Dairy Queen is the countergirl at the Dairy Queen -- her first movie, and she's doing lines with Jack Nicholson. 
Finding real locations, using the people you find there: these are the techniques of the Italian neo-realists adapted to the heartland. "While shooting 'Schmidt,' the costume people were going into the extra pool and lint-brushing them," Payne recalls. "I had to shoo them away. Why do you make people look unlike they would naturally occur, just because there's a camera there? Why do you have to make things more beautiful?" 
If Ruth was something of a lively scamp, there is little to lighten the grotesque sadness of Nicholson's Warren Schmidt. He is a weary, combed-over salary-man who, as an actuary, knows all too well that he's nearing the end of his useful days. Incapable of connecting with his family, his only confidant is the unanswering Ndugu, an African orphan Schmidt is inspired to sponsor by a late-night television pitch. In his letters to Ndugu, decades of simmering disappointment start to boil, and Schmidt tears apart his wife, his daughter's choice in men and his own failed fortunes. Yet even at his barest, he cannot help but pretty up the pain, referring to his daughter's shipping clerk job as a "position of some responsibility" with a "high-tech computer outfit." He is unable, finally, to express himself except in the aphorisms of business correspondence. "Here I am rambling on and on," he writes, "and you probably want to hurry on down, cash that check and get yourself something to eat. . . . Best of luck with all your endeavors. Yours, very truly, Warren Schmidt."
"The guy is kind of a miserable human being," Nicholson says. "He's an actuary, but he doesn't really observe his own life. He's dishonest even to a 6-year-old boy in a letter."
Says Payne: "That kind of denial is very Midwestern. To say, 'Oh, sure, I get a little down from time to time. But everything's fine!"'
If the Omaha of "Election" was simply a bland every-burb, in "About Schmidt" Omaha feels startlingly, painfully specific: an empty city of watery blues and grays, the blank spot at the center of the map. It's as affecting a picture of alienation as you'd find in, say, Antonioni's "L'Avventura" -- only with fewer beautiful Italian women and more stretch waistbands.
When I ask Nate Carlson, Payne's graphic designer and an Omaha native, if he thinks Payne got Omaha right, he replies: "Yes, but it's a rightness you don't think about. There's a lot of kindness on the surface here. And he shows that it's like that -- but that it's not like that. For the most part, he shows the city as being rather gloomy." 
Carlson thinks that Omaha audiences see Payne's films differently from the rest of the country. "I don't think the people in Omaha see the gloom in his movies," he says. "They see the Dairy Queen they used to work at. They don't see the thunderclouds behind it."
Payne, on the other hand, sees both the Happy and the Hollow and ends up articulating a distinctly Midwestern existentialism: deep ennui charmed by a paradoxical, unrelenting optimism. 
"About Schmidt" may be Payne's last Omaha movie. But it is also his first, in the sense that it largely revives "The Coward," the screenplay he abandoned almost a decade before. "I hadn't yet gotten that story out of my system," Payne says, and as he and Taylor worked to adapt Begley's book, he found himself borrowing elements from it, including Ndugu. From the novel he retained the plot of a man disapproving his daughter's wedding, but as Begley's Schmidt became Payne's, he no longer abhorred the fact that she was marrying into a Jewish family but instead abhorred the fact that she was marrying into a clan of Denver hippies. The world Begley had created retreated, and the Hamptons, somewhat improbably, became Omaha. 
When I reached Begley at his own home in the Hamptons, the graceful attorney-novelist of Polish birth confessed that he was "obviously, initially rocked" by the changes. To him, Nebraska embodies what he calls America's "somewhat crazy core." But since seeing the film, he has become more understanding. "I can sympathize," Begley says. "Omaha is a place that he knows, and he's wonderful about exploiting it."
Perrotta, whose own "Election" was moved to Omaha from New Jersey, is more sanguine. "It's a very literary decision, in a way, to bring his films to Omaha. He's claiming a kind of prerogative to be a regionalist -- which is unusual for a filmmaker, but for an American writer to do that is nothing at all. It puts him in the company of Sherwood Anderson, William Faulkner, William Kennedy." 
But now Payne is moving on. His next film, "Sideways," is based on a yet-unpublished novel that follows two oenophiles on a weeklong tasting binge through the vineyards of central California. It will be hard to find a place for 50th and Underwood there in the sunshine, but after three films of Dairy Queens and thunderclouds, that may be the point. 
Though "About Schmidt" is bleaker than your average Christmas movie, New Line, which is releasing it, is demonstrating faith in Payne's newfound stature as a filmmaker: the studio plans to expand the release to 2,000 screens by the end of January, compared with the roughly 800 on which "Election" was shown. The film has already met with critical enthusiasm, not only at Cannes in the spring but also in New York in September, where it was chosen to be the opening-night film at the New York Film Festival. 
If "About Schmidt" is his for-now farewell to the Midwest, it is something of an extravagant goodbye. After the critical success of "Election," when he might have gone anywhere, he gave Omaha his most expensive film ($30 million, compared with the $8 million he spent on "Election"), his biggest star (The Omaha World-Herald giddily charted Nicholson's movements in a frequent "Where's Jack?" column) and his first chance at final cut. If things go well, he may return to make his long-dreamed-about Nebraskan Western. But there is also the sense that he has done it now, because he knows he may not be able to do it again.
On my last night in Omaha, I head to the preserved downtown area known as the Old Market for a farewell drink with Payne, Nate Carlson and Payne's friend David Clark, an attorney who gave up San Francisco to come to Omaha and write books about Warren Buffet. After meeting him at a party, Payne cast him as a prosecutor in "Citizen Ruth." A few nights earlier, at a dinner with some local actors, Clark had explained to me rather intensely that Omaha is the new Bohemia, in part because it is so boring that people are forced to read. 
As Payne is joking with Carlson, Clark takes out a folded blue sheet of paper. He has been thinking, he says to me, about my questions on why Payne shoots in Omaha. "He's the favorite son," he explains. "He's a phone call away from the mayor, the governor. He goes to a cafe, and the crew gathers around him, and he holds court. Everyone loves him." Clark hands me the blue paper. "I photocopied this for you," he says, waiting as I read the highlighted passage. It's a page from Elia Kazan's autobiography, "A Life."
"The one time I met William Faulkner, I remember he wore rubber boots and they were covered with the mud of his Mississippi winter," the passage reads. "He never left his home in Oxford for very long. John Steinbeck left northern California and looked a fool in New York. . . . Saul Bellow is wise; he stays in Chicago. . . . And Proust: he lived in what he wrote about -- a life no one else could tolerate."
I look up, and Clark shakes his head a little sadly. "I don't know why he wants to leave," he says. As we finish our drink, I notice Payne standing, smiling. He is already saying goodbye. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alexander Payne (Brigitte Lacombe); Payne directing Jack Nicholson in "About Schmidt." (Claudette Barius/S.M.P.S.P./New Line Cinema) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (56%) MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: HODGMAN, JOHN; PAYNE, ALEXANDER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) OMAHA (NEB)

TITLE: ABOUT SCHMIDT (MOVIE); CITIZEN RUTH (MOVIE); ELECTION (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



209 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
 Sometimes special offers come in numerical order.

ONE FREE AFTER TWO -- Two paid round trips or four one-way trips on an Acela Express or Metroliner train between Boston, New York or Washington before Feb. 28 will earn a free round trip. The free trips, available to Amtrak Guest Rewards members, may be taken between April 22 and Aug. 28 (some dates are blacked out), for travel in the same class as the two paid trips. There is no limit to the number of trips that can be earned, and the free trips can be transferred to others. There is no charge for membership in the Amtrak Guest Rewards program; call (800) 307-5000 or log on to www.amtrak.com to join. Information: (800) 872-7245.

THREE NIGHTS IN LONDON -- It's a short getaway, but after holiday shopping, a $279 package from British Airways with three nights in a London hotel may be closer to what most travelers can afford. Good through Jan. 15, for purchase by Jan. 12, it includes round-trip economy air fare from New York, three nights in the 1,630-room Royal National Hotel near Covent Garden, Continental breakfast and hotel taxes and tips. The price is per person, based on double occupancy, and there is a $20 weekend surcharge each way; the offer is not available Dec. 15 to 30. Airport fees and taxes are extra. For $339, the price includes the 401-room Plaza on Hyde Park; for $363, the hotel is the 188-room Gresham Hyde Park. For information, (877) 428-2228; www.britishairways.com/londonbreak.

FOUR HYATTS -- Hyatt hotels in the New York area are reducing rates in the holiday season. The Grand Hyatt, next to Grand Central Terminal, will have rooms for $179 a night Dec. 13 to Jan. 4. The Stanhope Park Hyatt , opposite the Metropolitan Museum of Art, has deluxe rooms for $219 a night Dec. 13 to Jan. 4, excluding Dec. 31. In Greenwich, Conn., the Hyatt Regency has rooms for $89 Dec. 19 to 30, and the Hyatt Regency Jersey City, on the Hudson River is charging $99 ($159 including breakfast for two and valet parking) Dec. 16 to 30. Reservations can be made at (800) 233-1234 or at www.hyatt.com.

MULTIPLY BY FIVE -- From March 30 to Oct. 26, French Country Waterways has discounts on its one-week barge cruises in Burgundy for couples celebrating wedding anniversaries in multiples of five -- 5 percent for a fifth anniversary up to 60 percent for a 60th anniversary. Savings will range from $160 to $2,577 a person on the cruises, which regularly cost $3,195 to $4,295 a person, double occupancy. Rates include six nights on the 18-passenger Esprit, 12-passenger Horizon II or 8-passenger Liberte; all meals and wine, sightseeing and transfers between the cruises and Paris. Couples must submit a copy of a wedding certificate; (800) 222-1236 or www.fcwl.com. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Hamlin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); CRUISES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (83%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); AIRPORT OPERATION (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); AIR FARES (57%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (84%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (84%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



210 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-8-02; 
The Healing Paradox

BYLINE:  By Abraham Verghese; Abraham Verghese is a professor of medicine and director of the Center for Medical Humanities and Ethics at the University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San Antonio. His latest book is "The Tennis Partner."

 BODY:
As a practicing physician, I confess that I learn about the latest medical breakthroughs while reading my morning paper. When my office mail eventually brings me the original study, my pleasure in the journal's pristine cover and untouched pages has been diminished because the tidings arrived before the messenger. But here is why I cannot complain: the science reported in my newspaper is genuinely newsworthy, deserving its place alongside matters of state and economy. For example, two weeks ago we learned of a promising approach to the prevention of cervical cancer -- a vaccine against one type of papilloma virus that is an antecedent to this malignancy. Imagine that. A vaccine for cancer! On the same day as that announcement came the first report of a vaccine that might prevent genital herpes. And then there's the ongoing news of the unraveling of the human genome in all its amazing complexity. History will draw a line here: Before Genome and After Genome. The Rosetta stone has been found and applied to the sacred scroll, and it promises important breakfast reading for years to come. 
 But my morning paper, laden with science, also carries evidence of our distrust of science and our search for another kind of healing. You've seen it: a full-page advertisement for a product that you know is too good to be true. The text has large type, a before-and-after picture, no listing of the contents of the product and a blizzard of endorsements from "scientists" and "patients" that take the place of data. These products are life extenders, fat fighters, growth-hormone releasers, relievers of limb pains, rebuilders of muscle and bone and sometimes all of the above together. I think of them as quark drugs, phantoms that if they could be studied in careful trials would soon lose the "r" for a "c" and be revealed for what they are. 
 But the market for such remedies is huge. Indeed, estimates are that nearly half of all adult Americans use some sort of dietary supplement, and the sales of these products in 2000 amounted to more than $15 billion! I plead guilty: echinacea and ginkgo have made appearances in my medicine cabinet, as I reached for magic for some ailment or other. I had no guidance, no data of the sort a scientist should accept, no package insert. I tried them on faith. Alas, they did nothing.
The good news is that many such treatments are being systematically and carefully studied through the aegis of the National Institutes of Health; what we know thus far is that few products live up to their claims, many have the potential for toxicity and the quality control on this stuff is awful. Here is the bad news: 70 percent of us would take these products anyway, even if they were shown to be no better than snake oil. Even as science measurably changes our life and extends our life spans, as a society we are suspicious of science.
I am not a crusader against alternative medicines or its practitioners. I am all for things that make us feel better and that don't hurt us. But I do wonder at the paradox of even the most rational of us being drawn to these bottles with pictures of ugly tubers and weedlike plants on them. Why do we become dreamy-eyed hearing the songs of the New Age pied pipers whose melodies interweave quantum physics and the workings of the colon in beautiful but completely fictional ways? Like revivalist preachers, they invite our faith, our willingness to search for magic in ancient, undecipherable Oriental practices (as opposed to the new, quite decipherable, Western practices). In return they offer nostrums, tonics, tapes, books, diets, retreats, mantras, votive candles and cruises; they bring color, fragrance and incense to an illness experience that otherwise plays out in black and white.
In this golden age of science, disease and treatment have become demystified. If you went to a doctor clutching your stomach in days of old, the doctor, after a good bit of probing and hemming and hawing, would retreat to the dispensary and with great ceremony compound a mistura carminativa, vividly colored in a medicinal bottle. Short of surgery or an autopsy, no one would be precisely certain what you had. But come clutching your stomach to a medical doctor these days, and after a careful history and exam, the doctor can "see" your gallbladder, measure the distress of your pancreas, examine the lining of your colon and much, much more if need be and then institute the precise cure. 
Therein lies the rub: we are perhaps in search of something more than a cure -- call it healing. If you were robbed one day, and if by the next day the robber was caught and all your goods returned to you, you would only feel partly restored; you would be "cured" but not "healed"; your sense of psychic violation would remain. Similarly with illness, a cure is good, but we want the healing as well, we want the magic that good physicians provide with their personality, their empathy and their reassurance. Perhaps these were qualities that existed in abundance in the prepenicillin days when there was little else to do. But in these days of gene therapy, increasing specialization, managed care and major time constraints, there is a tendency to focus on the illness, the cure, the magic of saving a life.
Science needs to be more cognizant of the other magic, the healing if you will, even as we reach for the proven cures. We need to develop and refine that magic of the physician-patient relationship that complements the precise pharmacologic interventions we may prescribe; we need to ensure the wholeness of our encounter with patients; we need to not lose sight of the word "caring" in our care of the patient. And doggedly, in this fashion, one patient at a time, we can restore faith in the fantastic advances of science we are privileged to witness. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Hulton Archive/Getty Images) Chart: "BACK TO NATURE"* The prevalence of CAM complementary and alternative medicine use increased from 25 percent in 1990 to 42 percent in 1997. . . . The prevalence of herbal remedy use increased by 380 percent during the same time period.* Total visits to CAM providers in 1997 (629 million) exceeded total visits to all primary care physicians (386 million) during that year.* Three in 10 pre-baby boomers, 5 in 10 baby boomers and 7 in 10 post-baby boomers reported use of at least one CAM therapy by the age of 33. From Medscape Primary Care, based on a series of consumer surveys tracking CAM use in the U.S. since 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (90%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CANCER (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (73%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); HERPES INFECTIONS (70%); VIRUSES (70%); CERVICAL CANCER (70%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ALTERNATIVE AND COMPLEMENTARY MEDICINE; DOCTORS; FAITH HEALERS 

PERSON: VERGHESE, ABRAHAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



211 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: The View/From Waterford; 
Keeping Up With the Joneses And Their Water Runoff

BYLINE:  By JANE GORDON 

 BODY:
ON first glance, Giovanni Drive in Waterford looks like hundreds of other developments. Houses on half-acre lots, rolling green lawns, private driveways. Stroll down the street, though, and the pavement alters to cobblestone from asphalt, houses are clustered closer together, curbs are absent. Such small differences make Giovanni Drive unlike any development in the country.
 Water-quality specialists nationally are paying attention to what happens at the nearly completed 30-house development, an experiment in environmental planning. The thinking: Take a typical neighborhood, apply traditional building methods to one half, environmentally friendly building methods (known as "best-management practices") to the other. Monitor the runoff from each neighborhood over the years, with the hope that the environmentally friendly practices will decrease the amount of polluted runoff enough to make a difference to Long Island Sound. 
 "Even though most of our national problems are primarily agricultural, we also have urban water problems and we're not cleaning those up," said Jack Clausen, an associate professor of natural resources at the University of Connecticut and the project's leader. 
"New building is going on pretty much everywhere, we're spreading out more and more. The prognosis is that one would expect the problems to get worse, that we'll have impaired water quality.
"Excess bacteria in our estuaries closes shellfish beds and can also close beaches," Mr. Clausen continued about possible runoff problems. "So there's a whole host of problems, and it all relates to our desire for high-quality water."
The names of Giovanni's Drive's caretakers reads like a laundry list of bureaucracy: The Environmental Protection Agency, the state Department of Environmental Protection, various agencies connected to the Town of Waterford, the University of Connecticut, private consultants. The project even has an appropriately bureaucratic official name: the Jordan Cove Urban Watershed National Monitoring Project. 
But for the Waterford developer, John Lombardi, Giovanni Drive is the place where the chicken farm on which he had been born was, and where his father, Giovanni Lombardi, had worked since 1938. The Lombardi house still stands on its original site, a shingled farmhouse embraced by a front porch. The younger Mr. Lombardi started working the farm in 1962, then branched out into developing land for residential and commercial use. 
In the late 1980's, Waterford's town planner, Thomas Wagner, told Mr. Lombardi that the E.P.A. was seeking a site for a water-monitoring project. Mr. Lombardi inquired into it, then i had to wait one year before developing any of the former chicken farm while the agencies monitored existing runoff from the site.
"I was interested in doing a different project," Mr. Lombardi said. "I wanted to do something that was a landmark, because the road is named after my father. It was nostalgic."
Building began six years ago. Nnow the 70,000 chickens are gone, and the site has become one of two urban water-monitoring projects the E.P.A. is coordinating throughout the country -- the other is in Illinois -- and the only one that involves construction of an entire neighborhood. Another 21 projects are looking at agricultural runoff. 
"The point is to get the water back into the ground before it runs off," said Mel Cote, the manager of the water quality unit in the New England office of the E.P.A. 
In the environmentally friendly part of the neighborhood, retention basins are used to hold rainwater and runoff until it settles back into the ground. Small gardens, called rain gardens, containing shrubs and flowers in the yards are depressed rather than raised into the soil, which helps them retain water. The planners used plants that "like to get their feet wet," said Thomas Wagner, Waterford's town planner and its representative in the project. "Cattails, dogwoods, birches, they're all in there," he said.
A paver road, which costs five times as much as asphalt, according to Marc Geer, an assistant to Mr. Lombardi, was installed without curbs; both of these construction elements promote the absorption of water into the ground. The neighborhood starts with asphalt roads, and two-thirds of the way in, the appearance of pavers marks the beginning of the non-traditional neighborhood. And there is a secondary gain in the neighborhood: Drivers tend to slow down once their cars motor onto the pavers. 
The experimental neighborhood run-off is now one-third of that of the traditional neighborhood. 
Homeowners in the experimental neighborhood paid from $350,000 to $390,000 for their homes. Houses in the traditional neighborhood cost $240,000 to $350,000. 
Roger Nelson bought a house on the street two years ago, opting for the traditional side because he wanted a larger lot than the other part of the neighborhood could accommodate. He liked the idea of being in a test neighborhood, and has since become president of the street's neighborhood association.
"I'm a scientist myself, retired from Pfizer," he said, "and I'm certainly used to doing experiments where you have a control and an experimental. It's been pretty interesting to see the various tools that UConn has put in to measure water flow and other components."
Mr. Lombardi was enthusiastic about being a part of the experiment, but the expense and time he has spent prompts him to question whether any other developer would take on such a project. 
"There's just so much bureaucracy, sometimes wetlands, sometimes the town planner, sometimes the E.P.A. wanted something special," he said. "They were supposed to reimburse us for the differences, but the truth is we ended up funding it through our own pockets. I should have left it as a farm and remodeled it and sold organic eggs. Or I could have made a short road and six big building lots. Economically, our construction company would have been much better off."
Mr. Lombardi's reservations about the project are not new to Mr. Clausen, who regularly works with developers and homeowners to promote the practices. 
"I'm doing another project in Branford, a retrofit of a neighborhood," said Mr. Clausen. "I walk down the street and wonder if people aren't peering out the windows saying, 'Who is this weirdo from UConn?' It's hard to convince all these people to adopt these practices. The same holds true for convincing developers, planning commissions, wetlands commissions, that these are desirable and needed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two sides of Giovanni Drive: Traditional building methods are used for one half of the development, left, and environmentally friendly building methods (known as "best-management practices") for the other, above. The water runoff from each is monitored. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); POLLUTION MONITORING (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (76%); BEACHES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (66%) HOUSING; WATER POLLUTION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (82%) UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT 

PERSON: CLAUSEN, JACK; LOMBARDI, JOHN; GORDON, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) LONG ISLAND SOUND; WATERFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



212 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Japanese Presence Shrinks

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

 BODY:
A DECADE ago, the Scarsdale office of Furumoto Realty was buying mansions in Westchester for Japanese corporations to house their expatriate staff. Now, it is selling those properties for the same clients.
 Four years ago, Meidiya, a supermarket popular among the local Japanese, closed its Yonkers store, the bigger of the two it operated. 
 At the Greenwich Japanese School in Connecticut, which draws three-quarters of its students from Japanese families living in Westchester, enrollment has slid from 417 in 1992, to 314 before the World Trade Center attack, to 253 today. 
The Banbanka, the late summer festival with traditional dances and fragrant teas, put on in Eastchester by the local Japanese, is no longer held.
The ripples of the decade-long stagnation of the Japanese economy have unraveled the once-thriving Japanese enclaves in Westchester. The number of Japanese living in Westchester has dwindled, as cost-conscious Japanese companies trim their New York-based staff or eliminate their American branches.
In 1992, before the bubble economy burst in Japan, a total of 357 Japanese companies employed 6,048 Japanese citizens in the New York metropolitan area, according to the Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry of New York. Between one-quarter to one-third of the expatriates lived in Westchester with their families, and the Japanese population in the county was around 16,000, according to the Japanese consulate in New York.
Currently, 273 companies employ 2,528 Japanese citizens in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, a 58 percent decrease from 1992. Westchester's loss in Japanese population has declined accordingly. 
While many Japanese men -- the expatriate employees are almost entirely male, proud and reserved -- are unwilling to discuss their feelings about the shrinking Japanese community in the county, their wives are more open.
Keiko Onoda, whose family will return to Japan next month, would prefer to live in Scarsdale a little longer. Mrs. Onoda, 52, the wife of a Japanese executive with a publishing company, has lived in Westchester for six years.
Their son, Hayato, a 24-year-old psychology major at the City University of New York, loves the freedom that the American education system offers. He can pick his major when he is ready and change it if he wants to. He can transfer to another school if he chooses to. Mrs. Onoda would have liked to live near her son until he finishes college.
Mrs. Onoda loves the trees, the grass and the chirping birds in Westchester. She can also store as many gadgets, books and clothes as she would like to in her roomy, airy house on a quiet street in Scarsdale.
"There are so many people in Japan," she said recently, as she sorted through the family's belongings. "Every place is like Manhattan. We'll never get this much space again."
Because the family will live in a Tokyo apartment much smaller than their Scarsdale house, Mrs. Onoda has been choosing which household items to keep.
"And I like to play golf," Mrs. Onoda said, a little sad. "It's really cheap to play golf here. You can play as much as you want. Back in Japan, you cannot."
Most Japanese companies were generous with their expatriate employees until a few years ago, often covering housing expenses, children's tuition, memberships of golf clubs, subscriptions to magazines, and for senior staff members, cars with full-time chauffeurs. It could cost more than $50,000 a year beyond the basic salary to support even a mid-level employee in the United States.
Now, most companies have shrunk the benefits, and many are planning to shed more of their overseas staff. The Mizuho Corporate Bank, one of the largest in Japan, has already sold all of its properties in the New York area as well as its golf club memberships, said Osomu Ogura, its spokesman. The company is planning to cut half of its 300 Japanese employees in the United States.
Takuya Honjo, the president and chief executive of Mizuho Corporate Bank's American operations, is the one who decides which employees must return home. Also a Scarsdale resident, Mr. Honjo leaves home for his office in Midtown Manhattan at 6 a.m. and doesn't get home until 10 or 11 p.m. Trimming staff, he said, is necessary to revive the companies.
"It doesn't make a difference to me whether we have a big or small community," he said.
But the size of Westchester's Japanese community matters a lot to Ozao Shizue, the owner of Meidiya, the Japanese grocery -- now one store instead of two.
"The families go back to Japan and they don't come back," Mrs. Shizue said, drawing in the air the shape of a plummeting roller coaster. "The companies are not sending replacements." 
At her store on Central Park Avenue in Hartsdale, where packages of ramen noodles are neatly stacked on shelves and freshly cut fish are buried in ice, business is slower, Mrs. Shizue said.
The exodus of Japanese families from Westchester has also reduced enrollment at the Greenwich Japanese School, set up 27 years ago for the children of Japanese citizens. The school teaches subjects in Japanese, except for English, American social studies and art. 
"I used to have 30 kids in my class," said Kay Nitta, who has taught English as a second language there for more than 10 years. "Now I have 13." 
Administrators are worried about balancing the books. The school, though heavily subsidized by the Japanese government, needs tuition and fees ($7,000 a year per child) to pay the bills. When the school had between 400 and 500 students, paying the bills had been easy. This year, the school will run a big deficit, said Tomiko Okajima, the school's longtime office manager. When a new principal, Koji Yoshida, was brought in 18 months ago, one of his main missions was to attract more students. He reasons that if a larger percentage of Japanese expatriates send their children to his school instead of American schools, it can survive.
And for Tak Furumoto, the owner of Furumoto Realty, which has offices in Scarsdale, Fort Lee and Manhattan, to survive means to diversify its clientele. A decade ago, its Westchester clients were exclusively Japanese expatriates, and now, they are one-quarter local American families, Mr. Furumoto said. 
Mr. Furumoto's agents know how to sell properties for departing families and corporations eager to get rid of them. Mike Mikuni, the head agent in its Scarsdale office, just advised a Japanese family who left the country in July to price their house on a quiet road at $659,000, lower than the asking prices of many similar houses.
"It'll be an easy sell," Mr. Mikuni said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A class at Keio Academy of New York in Purchase, above. Tak Furumoto, left, who diversified his real estate clientele to stay in business. Meidiya in Hartsdale, a grocery that closed its Yonkers store. (Above, George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times; photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); FESTIVALS (70%); MEN (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); CITIES (66%); PUBLISHING (61%); POPULATION DECLINE (56%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN LABOR; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (55%)

PERSON: ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



213 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: $200 Million for an Underused Courthouse 

BYLINE:  By FAIZA AKHTAR 

DATELINE: CENTRAL ISLIP 

 BODY:
IT required more than a decade of planning and more than $200 million to build the new federal courthouse in Central Islip. Gleaming white and 11 stories tall, the building, which opened two years ago on 29 acres of land donated by Suffolk County, is visible for miles across the flat South Shore landscape. It was designed by the renowned architect Richard Maier to evoke a sense of awe and respect for the law.
 But it's largely an empty shell. Of 377,000 square feet of courtroom-related space, more than a third is vacant, and most of the 70,000 square feet designed as office space is also sitting idle. 
 "They put all this money into the building, but it's like no one took the time to think things through," said Don Porter, who works at the courthouse as a security officer for the United States Marshal Service. "If they did, it wouldn't be so empty. Vacant courts, vacant offices, there are even floors that are half vacant."
George Kuchek of the Spector Group, a North Hills firm that collaborated with Mr. Maier in the design of the building, said the need was there. "The federal courthouses on Long Island were overcrowded," he said.
But William Jenkins of the General Services Administration, the federal buildings superintendent and lead agency in the government's $9 billion nationwide courthouse building project, said that government officials proceeded with design and construction of the Central Islip building based not on current need but on projected demand in 2030.
"We wanted to combine all the courts of the Eastern District into one building," he said. "The size of it was determined by what the projected needs of the courts would be by 2030."
Mr. Kuchek said that some of the courtroom space and the 70,000 square feet designed as office space was supposed to be rented out, mainly to other federal agencies, such as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Mr. Jenkins said that "as the district's need for courtrooms would increase over the years, the plan was to build an annex or another building on the land and move the agencies there."
But for now, at least, the annex plan is moot. Only a handful of federal agencies occupy space in the courthouse.
The F.B.I. and the Drug Enforcement Administration continue to rent space on Pinelawn Road in Melville, and when the B.A.T.F. moved recently it was to the building next door to the F.B.I. and D.E.A., where the Federal Aviation Administration and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton already have offices. The Secret Service's lease on an office in Melville expires soon, but Jack Pratt, a spokesman for Representative Steve Israel, said the Secret Service was planning to stay in Melville, which is in Mr. Israel's district.
The G.S.A. says the federal government leases 35 parcels totalling 1,414,715 square feet of office space on Long Island, and could save money by renting to itself at the Central Islip building. But the G.S.A. cannot order the agencies to move.
"Things didn't go as planned and I suppose one of the main reasons is that nobody likes to move," Mr. Jenkins said. "Think about it -- it's bad enough when you have to move your house. Can you imagine what it must be like to move an entire agency?"
But government officials cited other reasons for not wanting to move. Federal agencies are under pressure from local governments to keep their offices, and the jobs and corollary economic activity that go with them, right where they are.
Central Islip's location is also an issue. "In the recent past G.S.A. has tried to convince the F.B.I. to move to the Central Islip building, but we never wanted to leave Melville," said Joseph Valiquette, an F.B.I. spokesman. "Unlike Central Islip, Melville is centrally located, enabling the F.B.I. to work with both the Suffolk County and Nassau County police."
Joe Green, a spokesman for the B.A.T.F., said the agency had recently signed a new lease and moved into the building in Melville and "at no time were we notified by G.S.A. about any available space in the Central Islip Federal Building."
Ken Trepeta, a spokesman for former Congressman Rick Lazio, said he was not surprised about the high vacancy rate since the G.S.A. was charging higher-than-usual rents for the courthouse. He said that Mr. Lazio, who while in office was instrumental in pushing the Central Islip project through, was offered office space but that the G.S.A. wasn't being reasonable.
"Their rent prices were outlandishly high," Mr. Trepeta said. "Frankly, I don't understand why. The land was donated, the building was completely paid for and here was G.S.A. charging somewhere around $37 per square foot."
G.S.A. officials still don't think it's a loss if agencies don't lease from them.
"It makes no difference whether the agency pays rent to a private landlord or to us," said Cassandra Henderson, a spokeswoman in Manhattan for the G.S.A. "Either way the agency does have to pay rent. If they have a lease with us the money goes back to the federal government, but sometimes that's only a savings of a few dollars. For these agencies to move over to the courthouse would be for the same reason President Clinton had to get commercial space in Harlem -- to make people feel better.
"We needed a courthouse this big," Ms. Henderson said. "Otherwise we wouldn't have built it."
Norman Rosenfeld, an architect in Manhattan, was skeptical. "I suspect that these courthouses are pork barrels probably negotiated by local politicos," he said. "They don't have appropriate context in mind. What they are thinking is monument."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Federal agencies rent 1.4 million square feet on the Island, but the Central Islip courthouse is largely empty. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); MARSHALS (75%); FIREARMS (66%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (61%); PERSONAL FINANCE (54%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%) COURTHOUSES 

COMPANY: SPECTOR GROUP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (82%) GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (63%); STEVE ISRAEL (50%) JENKINS, WILLIAM; AKHTAR, FAIZA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) CENTRAL ISLIP (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



214 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: The Land Of Opportunity For Reverse Commuters 

BYLINE:  By R. S. FLINN 

 BODY:
BY the time Jean-Paul Cass, 29, a patent lawyer who works in Stamford, hits the road at 7:30 a.m., he knows his trip on the Cross-Island Parkway, over the Throgs Neck Bridge and up I-95 to Connecticut will be filled with traffic. The 35-mile ride from Douglaston, Queens, takes him at least an hour each way. Accidents, which seem to happen daily, often stop traffic for miles. Stressed-out drivers weave in and out of lanes. When the weekend comes, his commute doubles.
 "Friday night is god-awful," Mr. Cass said. "It's taken me two and a half hours to get home." 
 He could take mass transit, but because that would involve two trains, a subway and then a cab to the office, that trip would take two hours. Mr. Cass has thought about moving closer to work, but the high cost of housing in the area deterred him. The average single-family home in Stamford costs well over $500,000. Besides, he said, he finds Stamford's night life a bit boring. 
"There's not much going on," Mr. Cass said. "It seems like an older crowd."
Mr. Cass is one of the growing number of people who are commuting into the state. Indeed, the numbers have risen so much that a curious thing has happened: there are now more people from New York and Massachusetts driving on the major highways into Connecticut to work than there are people headed out.
"A lot of the time the road is open completely on the other side," Mr. Cass said, referring to the southbound lanes of I-95.
That road, for example, has the reputation of being clogged with New York-bound commuters in the morning, but the opposite is actually true. Statistics from the Connecticut Department of Transportation show that in June 2001, the latest period for which numbers are available, an average of 16,900 vehicles traveled south on I-95 into New York between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m., but an average of 22,200 vehicles traveled into Connecticut. During the afternoon and evening rush from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m., an average of 17,700 vehicles traveled into Connecticut on I-95, while 24,700 vehicles headed into New York.
David Schrank, a researcher at the Texas Traffic Institute, recently co-authored a study examining traffic congestion nationwide. He said in many parts of the country, reverse commuting has grown to a point where it is almost even with established commutes.
"Traditionally, 60 percent of traffic moves inbound, and 30 to 40 percent moves outbound," Mr. Schrank said. "Now, we are closer to 50 percent each way, due to the fact that people are working in nontraditional corporate centers."
Although the number of commuters traveling into Grand Central in the morning far outweighs the number traveling into Connecticut, reverse ridership on Metro-North is growing as well. Since 1985, the number of people traveling from New York to Connecticut has increased 192 percent. Dan Brucker, spokesman for Metro-North, said the terrorist attacks last year also had a big impact on reverse ridership.
"We had an increase of 20 percent literally overnight after the Sept. 11 attacks," Mr. Brucker said. "That number has softened up a bit to 10 percent over 2001 ridership, but it seems logical that what we have captured at this point will probably stay with us."
Economists said Sept. 11 seems to have accelerated a trend that has been building for decades as suburban office parks lured companies out of Manhattan. Jim Cameron, vice chairman of the Connecticut Metro-North Commuter Council, said he believed the traffic tide turned five years ago when Swiss Bank moved its offices from Manhattan to Stamford.
"They're one of the largest employers in the area," Mr. Cameron said. "There were people who didn't necessarily want to move up here, but could no longer take the train to work," so they commuted by car.
Peter Gioia, an economist at the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, also said many New York companies established offices in the state after the terrorist attacks.
"You see more reverse commuting in part because companies had to diversify the number of sites they had, and there were concerns about business being able to sustain operations if a loss happened," he said.
Experts said there are a number of other factors at work, but the main one, of course, is jobs. Connecticut has the lowest unemployment rate among its neighbors and, in Fairfield County, for example, there are not enough workers to fill the jobs available, even in the weakened economy.
Just over the border in Westchester County, the reverse is true, where there are more workers than jobs. That sends people not only into New York City, but also into Connecticut.
Although there are still not enough jobs in the state for all its workers, (the labor force in October was 1,723,900, but nonfarm employment was 1,669,100), a look at two areas of the state tells a different story.
According to the United States Department of Labor Statistics, the labor force in the Stamford-Norwalk area was 190,900 in October, but the total nonfarm employment was higher at 203,400. In the Hartford area, which includes the surrounding 55 towns and cities, the labor force was 584,600 as of October, with the total nonfarm employment at 604,700. Most of the layoffs of about 3,000 state workers announced last week are not expected to go into effect until January.
The state's neighbors do not have the same balance of jobs and workers. The Westchester County labor force was 452,994, while the total nonfarm employment was 426,300 in October. Springfield, Mass. had a work force of 294,900, but total nonfarm employment of 269,100 in October. In the Providence-Fall River-Warwick, R.I. area, the work force was 584,000, but nonfarm employment was 541,700.
Over all, as of October, Connecticut had an unemployment rate of 4.2 percent, Massachusetts and Rhode Island had rates of 5.2 percent and New York was at 5.7 percent. These numbers ranked Connecticut 13th in the nation for lowest unemployment.
Other factors fueling the reverse commute are lifestyle and the cost of housing in the state's suburbs, especially, again, in Fairfield County. The young people filling many of the state's jobs don't have the financial means, and often the desire, to live in the suburbs.
"Even though the dot-com bubble burst, a bunch of companies moved to the Norwalk area," said John Lyons, president of MetroPool, an organization that promotes mass transit and carpooling. "But the young, talented workers they employ are city-based.
"Sometimes they have a rent-controlled apartment they don't want to give up, but for a lot of people, it's a lifestyle choice. Manhattan has more night life and entertainment."
According to the Consolidated Multiple Listing Service of Connecticut, the average sale price of a single family home in Norwalk was $534,770 during the last six months. That is cheaper than Stamford, which averaged $643,683, and a bargain compared with the average $1.02 million that Westport homes commanded.
Renting an apartment is expensive as well. A worker needs to make at least $47,120 a year, or $22.65 a hour, to rent a one-bedroom apartment in the Norwalk-Stamford area, according to "Out of Reach 2002," a study put out by the National Low Income Housing Coalition. By comparison, a starting teacher in Norwalk with a bachelor's degree and no experience earns $37,000 a year, which is $10,000 less than the rate needed to afford an apartment.
The same study shows that an employee needs to make $40,800 a year to afford a one-bedroom apartment in Westchester County.
Raymond Caine, 46, of Warwick, R.I., a line-chef at the Mohegan Sun Casino, has been making the reverse commute for about 20 years when he worked for Electric Boat in Groton. He said he had no intention of moving to Connecticut because his family is in Warwick. He said he enjoys his hourlong commute.
"It's quite relaxing," he said. "Where I live is very congested, but when I drive to work, there's not much traffic on the road. It's very scenic."
A spokesman for the Mohegan Sun Casino said that of its 9,600 workers, only a small percentage commute from Rhode Island.
Employment numbers show that the New London and Norwich areas, despite the presence of the two casinos, had more workers than jobs. The labor force was 159,800, but nonfarm employment was 145,800 in October.
But of all the areas in Connecticut, the eastern region is expected to have the largest job growth over the next several years. The Connecticut Department of Labor predicted this part of the state, which includes the Danielson and New London labor market areas, will have a 13.6 percent increase in employment from 1998 to 2008.
On one particular day's traffic volume on I-95 last year, 6,765 vehicles came into Connecticut from Rhode Island between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m., while only 4,444 drove in the opposite direction. The number of vehicles coming into Connecticut from western Massachusetts on I-91 is more than 50 percent higher during the morning commute than leaving.
Traffic counts provided by the Connecticut transportation department show that during one week this September, an average of 19,311 vehicles came into the state from Massachusetts a day on I-91 between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m., compared with an average 12,483 vehicles traveling into Massachusetts.
Both Springfield, Mass., and Hartford, have similar unemployment rates, at about 4 percent, but Hartford has twice as many jobs as workers. According to the September edition of the "Connecticut Economic Digest," the city holds 121,533 jobs, but only 52,423 workers. The city fills that gap with workers from the suburbs and from Massachusetts.
"There has been massive growth along I-91 from Enfield to Hartford, particularly in office buildings," said Mr. Gioia, the economist. "One of the things that has attracted companies there are certain people with certain skill sets."
In other words, Connecticut's work force is highly skilled and educated. Clusters of companies chose to set up their operations near these employees, which in turn draws out-of-state workers with these skills to the area as well.
And Connecticut is not talking about imposing a commuter tax on its out-of-state workers, something New York City has proposed. Christopher Bruhl, president of the Southwestern Area Commerce and Industry Association, said having the reverse commuters here in the first place is beneficial to the state.
"To the extent that you pay taxes, but don't consume services, the state is a winner," Mr. Bruhl said, about the reverse commuters paying sales taxes while in the state.
Communities can make out as well, he said, if the tax on commercial real estate where these employees work is larger than the tax on the homes they would live in.
Allan Blair, president and chief executive of the Western Massachusetts Economic Development Council, said that states need to work together. He said, for example, that it is difficult to assess the economies of Hartford and Springfield as separate entities.
He characterized Hartford and Tolland Counties in Connecticut, along with Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin Counties in Massachusetts, as the true economic region. To strengthen it, both states formed a partnership two years ago to attract new businesses and industries.
But despite this characterization, he acknowledged that Hartford County draws more workers into Connecticut than Springfield County does into Massachusetts. He attributes the draw in part because the labor market area is larger in Hartford, and because the city has a greater cluster of industries.
"The state line is permeable; it does not represent a solid border to commerce," Mr. Blair said. "Public policy tends to follow arbitrary lines, but the economy does not."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean-Paul Cass, a patent lawyer from Douglaston, Queens, leaving his house at 7:30 a.m., above, for his job in Stamford. He headed for the Throgs Neck Bridge, above left, and up I-95, getting to work, left, in about an hour. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 4); There are far more cars headed into the state on I-95, above and left, and I-91 than headed out during the morning commute. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); PATENTS (73%) LABOR; COMMUTING 

PERSON: FLINN, R S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONNECTICUT; MASSACHUSETTS; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



215 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
Health Centers: Expansion Pressures, Budget Limits

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
WITH business brisker than ever and the demand for services expected to rise in the next few years, not-for-profit medical providers like Hudson River Community Health in Peekskill, one of the state's poorest cities, and the Open Door Family Medical Center in Ossining, one of its poorer villages, are struggling.
 "We're caught in a bind," said Anne K. Nolon, president and chief executive of the Peekskill organization. "Throughout the country, many health care centers are feeling the pressure to expand because we're serving 43 million uninsured Americans, but unfortunately, our budgets are not as large as our needs." 
 Unable to meet the costs of new construction, Hudson River Community Health -- which also has offices in Beacon, Amenia, Pine Plains, Dover Plains, Wallkill, Goshen, New Paltz and Poughkeepsie -- recently built a fence around a newly bought lot in Peekskill, placing on hold plans for a medical center serving women and children. 
Bids for new construction came in way over budget, Ms. Nolon said. The nonprofit health provider first opened 27 years ago in Peekskill in a three-story former department store and still has medical facilities there.
In Ossining, Open Door -- which is also in a former department store -- faces similar space limitations, and is grappling with the problem of a limited budget and pressure to expand as well.
Not only are such organizations experiencing a growing demand for services from potential patients, but they must also meet the demands of managed care, which often means providing more examination rooms, among other things, said Lindsay Farrell, president and chief executive of Open Door.
The Ossining nonprofit, which has been serving underinsured and uninsured clients for 30 years, began as a walk-in clinic in the basement of the First Baptist Church, across the street from its present headquarters on Main Street.
It at first occupied only the first floor of the vacant retail store, renting the top two stories for income. One of its tenants was the Westchester County Department of Planning's Office of Urban Renewal, which was working in the late 1970's to rejuvenate the struggling downtown of the Hudson River village.
As the community developed, Open Door's caseload increased -- growing tenfold in three decades to 200 patients a day from 20 in 1972. Over the years the organization took over not only the whole former store but also an adjacent building, a former men's store. That building was torn down in the late 1980's, rebuilt and connected to the first building. In all, Open Door now occupies 22,000 square feet in the village.
It has two other facilities: a 5,000-square-foot satellite office in Sleepy Hollow that was opened in 1986 and an 8,000-square-foot office in Rye Brook that opened seven years ago and serves the Port Chester area. Of the 20,367 clients treated in its three locations last year, 43 percent had no health insurance and paid on a sliding scale. Up to 90 percent of the patients had incomes at or below the poverty line.
Most recently, Open Door spent $1 million -- mostly from fund-raising -- to begin updating its facilities in Ossining. The renovations included adding four medical examination rooms so doctors could see more patients in a given time, as prescribed by managed care.
Worn carpeting was replaced with tile flooring, dental chairs were increased to eight from five, and a family practice-medical unit was created, as were new areas for podiatry and ophthalmology. Administrative and other nonpatient services were moved to the third floor of the building, where three rooms were added for mental health services.
The only public money, $125,000 from the county, was used toward a new elevator to accommodate the many strollers, wheelchairs and walkers coming through the front door every day.
"As a nonprofit, we couldn't afford to get extravagant, so everything had to be done as economically and creatively as possible," said Michael Molinelli, a Briarcliff Manor architect overseeing the project. He said that although more renovations were needed, budget constraints limited how much could be done at once.
Five more examination rooms are needed beyond the existing 12, he said. A laboratory is to be moved from the middle of the first floor, where a large reception area will be created. And medical records housed in part of the first floor -- which has been reinforced twice already to carry the heavy load of all the paperwork -- will be moved to another space.
"Even with a limited budget, we've tried to design a medical building from the patient's point of view," Mr. Molinelli said. "Often when we see clients, they're distressed. The idea is to make everything efficient as well as aesthetically pleasing for them." 
That has meant using natural window light when possible and creating some open spaces, he said. But waiting rooms have been designed to be "small and intimate," he added, "so patients don't feel like they're in a giant cattle pen."
"We certainly don't want to give our clients the feeling that because they're getting this free, they have to settle for less," he said.
Costs for the recent renovations ran about $100 a square foot, Mr. Molinelli said. "The idea," he said, "was to use simple materials cleverly, like laying down vinyl tile in colorful patterns to create visual interest without spending more."
BY comparison, construction costs for private medical practices and upscale finishes run up to $130 a square foot. And while the furniture and finishes may be less expensive, the medical equipment used by nonprofits is, in most instances, the same as that in private medical offices, Mr. Molinelli said.
Hudson River Community Health serves more than 35,000 patients -- including migrant and seasonal workers and immigrant day laborers -- in 100,000 square feet of medical office space in seven counties. About 65 percent of its users have incomes below the federal poverty level, and in 2001 more that 57 percent of its users were uninsured.
The three-story, 66,000-square-foot health center in Peekskill opened with a one-time federal grant of $250,000 and financing from the county. The nonprofit group recently bought a second site in Peekskill, a 24,000-square-foot abandoned gas station, for $350,000 and spent $375,000 more to renovate it, with part of the money paying for environmental remediation of the site. The building is now being used as a health education center.
Half of the center's annual $21 million budget comes from patients and insurance reimbursements. It raises about $100,000 a year in private money. Meanwhile, the federal government is expected to to increase financing for health care centers, but to be eligible for funds, centers like Hudson River Community Health need the space to handle an increased patient load, Ms. Nolon said.
"In more ways than one, we're caught in a bind," she said, describing the center's income as "woefully short" of our needs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Open Door Family Medical Center in Ossining spent $1 million for four examining rooms and other upgrades. (Richard Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETAILERS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



216 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey Retail Space; 
In the Market for Shopping Centers, Buyers Line Up

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH hopes are not very high for retail sales this holiday season, the retail real estate market in New Jersey is merry and bright, some market specialists say.
 "Investment capital is flocking to retail," said Andrew J. Merin, an executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield, who heads its Metropolitan Area Financial Services Group. "Buyers may be wary of office vacancies and nervous about apartment buildings -- but retail property seems to have moved to the top of buyers' lists." 
 In August, Mr. Merin's group brokered the $53 million sale of the Essex Green Shopping Center in West Orange and the $25.5 million sale of the Village at Bedminster shopping center in Bedminster. "The market hasn't cooled a bit," Mr. Merin said this week. 
Currently, he said, his group is completing the sales of two large retail properties: the Plaza Square shopping center in Wayne and the Promenade retail center in Edgewater. In both cases, contracts have been signed, but the sales have not closed, so the buyers' identities have not yet been disclosed.
The buyers will pay something over $20 million for the 101,000-square-foot Plaza Square, Mr. Merin said. He said there had been 35 purchase offers for the property -- close to twice the number he would have expected a year ago. The 190,000-square-foot Promenade also fetched a price of more than $20 million, Mr. Merin said.
The capitalization rate, the rate of return a purchaser can expect to earn on a property given current interest rates on loans and rent levels, he said, "is only about 8.5 percent. That does not compare favorably with the past."
"And still," Mr. Merin said, "these big transactions keep occurring."
The Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Brokerage Company, a national firm with offices in Fort Lee, reported last week that the median sales price for retail properties in northern New Jersey in the third quarter was $143.52 per square foot. The capitalization rate, which averaged 10.2 percent during 2001, according to Marcus & Millichap, is now below 10 percent as capital has flowed out of the stock market and into real estate investments, allowing sellers to hold prices firm.
Mr. Merin's group is about to begin the formal marketing of another 1 million square feet of retail property: the Starwood Heller portfolio of eight properties in northern New Jersey, among them Linden Plaza in Linden and 440 Commons in Jersey City. Mr. Merin said there had been 160 requests for the information books on the portfolio.
THE team founded by Mr. Merin along with David Bernhaut, who is the executive director, works with owners, developers, corporations, banks and other investors on acquisitions, sales and financing of investment properties. Based at Cushman's headquarters in East Rutherford, it operates in northern and central New Jersey, Fairfield County in Connecticut, Long Island and Westchester County.
A year ago, Mr. Merin said, the Northeast was "not viewed well" for economic growth potential. "In New Jersey," he said, "the office market was still high on the totem pole, then industrial, apartments, and retail was on the bottom."
Potential buyers had lingering concerns about the impact that online shopping would have on retailing, Mr. Merin recalled. "Now, they realize the Internet is not a concern, that people want to go pick out their own head of lettuce and buy their own sweaters," he said.
A year ago, there had also been a rash of bankruptcies by large discount chains that was unnerving to those shopping for shopping centers at the time, Mr. Merin said.
But the retail real estate market in northern New Jersey actually remained one of the strongest in the Northeast this year, according to Marcus & Millichap. Morris County posted a mere 4.2 percent vacancy rate for retail property at midyear. Hudson County had the highest vacancy rate in the state at 9.5 percent, but that was improved from the 13.5 percent at the end of 2001.
Overall vacancy for the northern New Jersey market is projected to be 7.1 percent at the end of 2002, Marcus & Millichap's report said.
Most of the vacancies created by the closing of large stores have been filled by the expansion of other chains, according to various market analysts. Chain stores like Target, Wal-Mart, Home Depot, Kohl's and Lowe's have added stores in New Jersey in the last year, Cushman's analysts said.
Now, there is concern over the potential closing of the Kmart chain, brokers say. Some describe it as inevitable and a bad omen for the future of retail in New Jersey. Others are less sure, or more sanguine.
Richard Brunelli, president of Brunelli & Company, a retail brokerage company in Old Bridge that produces a report on New Jersey retail real estate each spring, said: "One of the major unknowns is what's going to happen with Kmart. If it doesn't do well this season, then the management of Kmart knows it is perhaps the last season. We have projects affected by the prospects of Kmart -- for example, anchor tenants who don't want to commit to moving in or expanding to a location where Kmart might leave a big vacancy."
But Mr. Brunelli said: "People are going to both lose fortunes and make fortunes if Kmart goes out of business. A lot of landlords have Kmart in there, paying $1 to $2 per square foot for huge spaces that could go for way more than that."
Matthew K. Harding, president of the Levin Management Corporation, sees Kmart's possible demise as a chance to "take back" space and to update shopping centers.
"Renovations and upgrading are something any shopping center owner needs to address every 10 to 15 years," Mr. Harding said. "The demands of consumers change, and the requirements of retailers change."
For example, Mr. Harding said, at the North Village Shopping Center in North Brunswick, the former Bradlees store was bigger than other retailers wanted, so the building size was reduced and the remaining space was leased to a Barnes & Noble bookstore; a Bed, Bath, & Beyond, and a Chili's restaurant. In Bridgewater, Mr. Harding's company helped transform a shopping center anchored by a Grand Union supermarket, which is now closed, into a neighborhood center anchored by Barnes & Noble.
"In Woodbridge," Mr. Harding said, "it was being able to get back possession of the Caldor space that allowed us to change the tenor of the St. George Crossing shopping center." Building facades are being renovated and parking facilities redesigned in Woodbridge. ShopRite, PC Richard and a national chain store that Mr. Harding said he was not ready to identify have been recruited. ShopRite, which already had a store in Woodbridge, moved into the 91,000 square feet of the former Caldor space, becoming one of the largest supermarkets in the state, Mr. Harding said.
Community shopping centers anchored by supermarkets are the "best buy" right now for investors, a number of brokers said.
"Larger centers, power centers of 800,000 square feet or more, are also selling," Mr. Brunelli said, "but regional malls have fallen out of favor." 
Mr. Harding said: "I'm bullish on retail, but not power retail, or enclosed malls. At a strip mall, there are the things you have to do and want to do with a quick trip -- a place to get a haircut, a McDonald's, a dry cleaners, etc. If you go into a mall, there are inevitably the luxury items. Nordstrom's, Eddie Bauer, Abercrombie & Fitch -- these are the first guys to get hurt when the consumer is short on cash."
But, as Mr. Merin noted, "even in difficult times, the consumer has to eat."
THERE are thriving supermarkets involved in both the big retail centers that Mr. Merin's team sold a few months ago.
A ShopRite and a Macy's department store anchor Essex Green, which was bought by the Principal Life Insurance Company and is being managed by Levin Management.
The Village at Bedminster, a 110,000-square-foot strip center sold to the Crow Holdings Real Estate Fund, is anchored by a King's supermarket. The site "offers fantastic demographics," Mr. Merin said, "located in a densely populated area with a high average household income -- and limited competition from other food stores within five miles."
Jonathan B. Schultz, president of the Schultz Organization/TCN Worldwide, a real estate services firm in Woodbridge, said his company represented several food-related chains that wanted to expand in New Jersey. Baja Fresh, a high-end Mexican restaurant chain that is opening a new store in East Brunswick, is looking for other new locations in Union, Middlesex, Monmouth, Ocean and Somerset Counties, he said. 
Schultz also represents Save-A-Lot, a supermarket chain that wants to open five stores in Middlesex County.
"Things are cooking," Mr. Merin said of the overall prospects for the retail real estate market, "and I think the feast is going to last well into next year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew J. Merin of Cushman & Wakefield at Essex Green Shopping Center in West Orange, which was sold for $53 million in August. (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL PROPERTY (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RETAILERS (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); CITIES (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MARCUS & MILLICHAP REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT BROKERAGE CO (81%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (81%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



217 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
At Under 6%, What Do Sellers Get?

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
MOST home sellers know by now that the traditional 6 percent real estate commission has basically become the "suggested list price" for real estate listings. And while most brokerage firms still push for a 6 percent commission, the amount the seller and broker finally agree upon can end up being considerably less.
 Beyond the traditional, full-service brokerage firms, a number of companies now offer their services at a variety of commission levels, fixed charges or some combination of the two. The levels of service vary widely, and may or may not provide inclusion on the local multiple listing service. Competition for the home seller's business is taking many forms. 
 "Commission price wars between full-service brokerages have infiltrated real estate markets across the country," Julie Garton-Good, a Miami real estate consultant, wrote in Realty Times, an Internet-based real estate journal. "In an effort to garner a larger swath of market, attract attention and annihilate the competition, many brokerages are slashing fees by 25 percent or more." 
And that's just the "full-service" brokerages. There is also an increasing number of firms that promise sellers will pay less than 6 percent for sales services, including "discount brokers," who will accept flat fees or lower commissions while, they say, providing all or most of the services offered by full-service brokers; Internet-based brokers, who charge flat rates or monthly fees for posting and maintaining "for sale by owner" listings on the Internet; and even "fee for services" brokerages that allow customers to pay only for the services they use.
At one end of the spectrum, said Peter G. Miller, a real estate consultant and author in Silver Spring, Md., are the full-service real estate brokerage firms that would rather let a prospective customer walk out the door than agree to accept less than a 6 or 7 percent commission. At the other end, he said, are services that cater to homeowners who are looking for only a little help in selling their homes themselves.
ForSaleByOwner.com, an Internet-based company, is a good example of the "no frills" style of brokerage.
"We cater exclusively to the for-sale-by-owner market," said Colby Sambrotto, chief operating officer of the company. Mr. Sambrotto said that for $60 a month, homeowners with houses to sell can advertise their property on the company's Internet site. "You can post color photos, virtual tours, a mapping function and a 2,000-word description of your house," he said, adding that for $219 the company offers a six-month package that includes yard signs and directional signs that can be used to point prospective purchasers to the house.
For $699, the company provides the same services as the six-month plan and says it will have a listing placed on the multiple listing service -- though in that case the seller must agree to pay the buyer's agent the traditional 3 percent of the sale price. With agents in major markets in all 50 states, Mr. Sambrotto said, the company can usually place a listing in a local M.L.S.
Another company that charges a flat rate for its services is Assist-2-Sell, based in Reno, Nev. 
Ryan Elliott, franchise director for the company, said that for a flat fee of $2,995, paid when the house is sold, Assist-2-Sell customers get virtually all the services provided by a full-service broker except for a listing in the local M.L.S. 
"We advertise the property, we show the property, we negotiate with the buyer and we do all the other things that a normal realtor would do," Mr. Elliott said. He maintained that in areas where there is a strong seller's market, an M.L.S. listing is often unnecessary. 
Those who want an M.L.S. listing, he said, can have one. "We offer an M.L.S. program," Mr. Elliott said, explaining that while the company charges a 4 or 4.5 percent commission for that program instead of a flat rate, the agent who brings the buyer to the property will get his or her standard 3 percent share out of the commission.
"We're the ones working at a discount," he said. "So we're not going to ask the buyer's agent to work at a discount too."
A particularly active discount brokerage firm in the New York City area is YHD Foxtons, a company in West Long Branch, N.J., that has offices in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
Glenn E. Cohen, president and founder of YHD Foxtons, said that the company has services at various commission rates, with the most popular being the 2 percent level. For that, he said, homeowners who list their property get virtually all the marketing services typically offered by traditional brokers, with the exception of M.L.S. listings. "We advertise in every major newspaper; we're on billboards, buses and on the radio" and on the Internet, Mr. Cohen said.
He explained that once a homeowner contacts YHD Foxtons, a local agent visits the home, provides a market analysis and agrees on services and pricing. Once the property is listed, a "property coordinator" is sent to the home to take pictures, put up signs, and create the "virtual tour" of the house that buyers will see on the company's Internet site. "When a buyer calls up and wants to see the house, we make sure that they've taken the virtual tour before we have the owner show the home," he said, adding that by having the owner show the home, YHD Foxtons has eliminated one of the most expensive aspects of traditional brokerage.
"Anybody can show a house," he said. "So we've eliminated the one job that's both labor intensive and unnecessary. Buyers know what they want, and nobody can convince someone to buy a house he doesn't want." 
Mr. Cohen added that if the homeowner does not feel comfortable showing the home, YHD Foxtons will do so for an additional commission of 1 percent. And if the seller wants the home in the local multiple listing system, he said, the company charges 4 percent and splits the commission with the broker who brings the buyer to the property.
Another low-cost brokerage is Help-U-Sell, a national company based in Syosset on Long Island.
"We're within the discount realm, but we're not a discount broker," said Rick O'Neil, president of the company. "We can charge less because we unbundle our services."
For example, Mr. O'Neil said, sellers who are willing to show their home themselves -- and let Help-U-Sell negotiate with prospective buyers and then shepherd the deal through to closing -- can sign up for a $2,950 package.
"And if you don't want to show the house yourself, we will charge you the flat fee plus a showing fee," he said, adding that the showing fee in the New York City area runs about 1.5 percent of the sale price. Inclusion in the local multiple listing system, Mr. O'Neil said, can also be arranged, with the understanding that the buyer's agent ends up with the standard 3 percent share.
Jack Hopkins, an associate broker with Century 21 Family Realty in East Northport, said that it is probably a good idea for discount brokers to ensure that when a home is put into the M.L.S., the buyer's agents get the commissions they are accustomed to.
"When you're looking at a listing, and you see that the buyer's agent's share of the commission is 2 percent, you're more likely to show another house that brings you 3 percent," Mr. Hopkins said. He added that it was also unlikely that a seller's agent who is working for 1 percent or less was going to work as hard -- or spend as much on advertising -- as an agent working for more. "It's economics, and it's human nature," he said. 
Dexter Guerrieri, president of Vandenberg Real Estate in Manhattan, said that while the low commissions offered by discount brokers may be attractive to some sellers, most of his clients seem to understand that a reduced commission often results in reduced service. "Out of my 13 current listings, nine are at 6 percent," Mr. Guerrieri said. "So even with the intense competition in Manhattan, most of our clients are not prepared to sacrifice quality service for a low commission." 
Reflecting on the variety of choices available to home sellers, Mr. Miller, the real estate consultant, said: "It has long been understood that there is no such thing as a standard commission. So if you're a consumer, the real question is what package of services you will be getting for a given number of dollars."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (78%); WRITERS (68%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (65%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



218 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: The Paper Mill May Be Singing A Different Tune 

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: MILLBURN 

 BODY:
MOVE aside "South Pacific." "Waiting for Godot" is coming to town.
 Maybe the shift will not be that dramatic, but if the leading contender for the top job at the Paper Mill gets it, there could be big changes in the kinds of productions put on at New Jersey's state theater, long renowned for its lavish musical revivals, but also criticized for its emphasis on the tried-and-true. 
 Paper Mill board officers and theater management met last week with Michael Gennaro, a former Broadway actor, entertainment lawyer and currently the executive director of the Steppenwolf Theater Company in Chicago, to sound him out for the job of chief executive and president. He would replace Angelo Del Rossi, 69, who is to become an executive producer focusing on fund raising. Despite a recent announcement that Paper Mill would conduct a national search for Mr. Del Rossi's successor, Mr. Gennaro appears to be the only candidate in serious contention. 
"For the moment, there is no one else we're talking to," said Mr. Del Rossi, predicting that it would take three to six months before his replacement is hired.
Mr. Gennaro, who his assistant said was traveling, did not return telephone calls.
Founded 63 years ago, Paper Mill has 1,200 seats and is one of the largest theaters in the state. Mr. Del Rossi has spent 40 years there, the last 27 at the helm. His departure from the top job is part of a series of recent changes as the theater tries to attract new, younger audiences and corporate sponsors, and to cope with sour economic times.
This summer, the theater considered restructuring its management, and Mr. Gennaro met with its leaders then, but no changes were made. This spring, Robert Johanson, the artistic director, resigned after his elaborate productions were blamed by some for the theater's financial woes.
Paper Mill has had financial difficulties for awhile; for much of the past year, it has been trying to get its financial house in order by co-producing shows with other theaters, eliminating high-salaried staff and cutting production costs. The result was a profitable season last year and a chipping away at substantial debt. 
"The process we have been through in the last six months has been very cathartic," said Kenneth Thorn, the board's vice chairman.
Mr. Thorn described this as the most significant turning point for the theater since Paper Mill had to rebuild after a fire nearly destroyed it in 1980.
"The fire created a break from the Carrington years," he said, referring to Mr. Del Rossi's predecessor, Frank Carrington, the theater's founder. "Now we've reached the point where we have to have a new vision."
If Mr. Gennaro is the chosen one, that vision could be very different, based on his experience at Steppenwolf, where he oversaw the production of 12 major world premieres, some of which moved to theaters in London, Ireland and Australia.
Founded in 1976 by the actors Gary Sinese, Terry Kinney and Jeff Perry, the ensemble-driven Steppenwolf has developed a reputation for introducing world premieres and riskier interpretations of classics. This season's line-up, for instance, includes William Saroyan's "The Time of Your Life," and Tony Kushner's "Homebody/Kabul," among other productions, on its Mainstage, and three world premieres on the smaller Studio stage. This is a far cry from the traditional formula of Paper Mill.
Mr. Del Rossi acknowledged that the two companies are different. As to how Mr. Gennaro would fit into the Paper Mill mold, Mr. Del Rossi responded: "Producing is producing. It's just on what scale you do it."
New Jersey's tight-knit theater community has been abuzz with the prospects of Mr. Gennaro's returning here. The son of the Broadway choreographer Peter Gennaro, Mr. Gennaro was a manager at George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick and executive director of Pennsylvania Ballet before going to Chicago. Jeffrey Woodward, managing director at Princeton's McCarter Theater, called Mr. Gennaro a "smart manager" who would be a "great addition to the Paper Mill team." Regarding the potential competition from someone used to staging the kinds of avant-garde productions typically associated with McCarter, Mr. Woodward saw it as no threat to his theater.
"We're about 40 to 50 miles apart," he said. "Our programming is very different. We're not competing for individual donors or foundation giving. It's really better if everybody's healthy. It only makes it better for us."
When Mr. Gennaro met with Paper Mill executives this summer, he was part of a team put together by the Broadway producer Marty Bell, who was considered for a new position of managing producer. Despite a strong push from Mr. Thorn and Edward Marlowe, the board's chairman, Mr. Bell did not get the job.
"He has a terrific vision, but it's pointed more toward Broadway than the theater wants to be at this point," said Mr. Thorn of Mr. Bell.
A Broadway producer with successes that include "Kiss of the Spider Woman," "Ragtime" and "Fosse," Mr. Bell said he had a two-year plan for Paper Mill, centering around the theme of "an American century of shows."
"There's a strong contingent that really likes the Paper Mill and doesn't have a sense of where it stands in the national picture," Mr. Bell said. "But if they want to clean up their fiscal problems and be attractive to funders, the place has to change its image. If it doesn't, it will continue to be seen as a glorified summer stock theater."
Mr. Del Rossi, though, said he expected the formula of four musicals and two plays per season to continue.
"I don't think there should be any drastic change," Mr. Del Rossi said. "As the state theater of New Jersey, we have a certain responsibility to bring entertainment and pleasure to our audiences."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paper Mill is poised for big changes as its longtime leader, Angelo Del Rossi, top left, prepares to leave his post. Mr. Del Rossi is shown with Robert Johanson, the theater's former artistic director. (Left, Norman Y. Lono; Jill C. Becker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); FUNDRAISING (68%); PAPER & PACKAGING (57%); LAWYERS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: STEPPENWOLF THEATER CO (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



219 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: When a Job Hunt Is Measured In Seasons or Even a Year 

BYLINE:  By ANNE FIELD 

 BODY:
FOR eight months now, Laurie Windrow has spent 50 hours a week in the dogged pursuit of one goal: finding a job. And no one is more surprised than Ms. Windrow, 40, at her predicament. With a high-powered resume, including stints as director of sales administration at MGM and vice president for international sales, marketing and business development at the Discovery Channel, she never dreamed her search would take so long.
 Laid off in the aftermath of Sept. 11 from a job as a senior vice president of Razorfish Studios, a small Manhattan media company, Ms. Windrow spent her first three months of unemployment just trying to get people to return her calls. Since then, she has met with perhaps 200 people, written hundreds of letters and come close to landing four jobs; in every case, the companies suspended their hiring plans at the last minute. 
 "In the past, I just went from one job to the next," she said. She takes cold comfort in the fact that half her friends are also unemployed.
Ms. Windrow's frustration is understandable. It used to be that laid-off professionals had an easier time of finding jobs, even in rough economic times, than less-skilled blue-collar workers, but that is changing. In October, white-collar workers -- defined as managers and professionals as well as technical, sales and administrative support -- made up about 49 percent of people who have been unemployed for six months or longer, up from 39 percent five years ago and the highest proportion since the federal government began tracking the groups in 1982, according to an analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics numbers by the Chicago outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas.
Similarly, for the first nine months of the year, the portion of unemployed professionals and managers who have been "between jobs" for half a year or more grew to an average of 16.6 percent, a record, up from 11.6 percent in 1997.
And while no separate figures for the New York City metropolitan area exist, employment experts say the problem may be even worse here. "People who come to me are unemployed for longer periods of time than I've ever seen," said Alexandra Duran, a business coach who has been counseling clients since the early 1990's. That is partly because so many New York area industries, from financial services to media and publishing, have been hit particularly hard in the wobbly economy.
Furthermore, with so many job seekers out there, it is taking employers longer to sift through the avalanche of job applications they get. Jeff Heath, president of the Landstone Group/MRI, an executive recruiter in New York, estimates it takes employers 30 percent longer to make hires than it did two years ago. He advises clients to expect their job search to last a year, instead of the three to six months that was the rule of thumb for the last 20 years. And, as Ms. Windrow has discovered, budget-conscious employers often wind up not filling the job at all.
For people armed with impressive resumes and letters of recommendation, the endless waiting can come as a shock. "When you're used to being highly successful, this is an unusual and difficult experience," said Kaarli Tasso, who was laid off from a senior management job at an Internet consulting company in the summer of 2001 and is still unemployed.
As a morale booster, in the fall of 2001, she joined the Five O'Clock Club, a career-counseling network in New York. Once a week, she meets with a counselor and a group of other unemployed professionals to share job-hunting techniques, give one another advice and moral support and just spend time with people who are in the same boat.
Many people in that boat are discovering that the job hunt can test their resourcefulness every bit as much as their old jobs did. Perseverance paid off for Leonard Salis, a 32-year-old lawyer who lost his job with a small firm in November 2001 after just three months. At the time, he was determined to limit his search to corporate work instead of his old specialty, litigation, no matter how long it took.
Nine months later, Mr. Salis saw an ad for a job at a law firm that described the firm's areas of specialty, but did not give its name. However, the ad offered some clues, like the initials of a contact and a fax number, and after a few hours of sleuthing on the Web, he figured out the firm's identity. In reading up on it, he learned that it did a fair amount of franchising law, an area he knew nothing about.
Mr. Salis landed an interview and spent the day before reading everything he could about franchise law. The next morning, when his interviewer asked him for his relevant experience, he confessed he had none, but recounted what had happened and talked knowledgeably about the cases he had just studied. Thanks in part to his initiative, he got the job.
No display of ingenuity can guarantee a happy outcome, of course. Ms. Windrow, for example, has taken to scouring the Web for news of job changes; when she learns of something promising, she writes the departed employee's boss. Thus far, however, it has not paid off.
For many people, desperation can lead to compromise. Increasingly, professionals and managers are accepting salaries that are 15 percent to 20 percent below what their previous job paid, according to Tony Lee, editor in chief of CareerJournal.com, a Web site of The Wall Street Journal. They are also becoming more open to the idea of relocating. Mr. Lee cites the case of a computer industry executive he knows who swore when he was laid off 11 months ago that he would not leave the New York area. Now, he says he would be happy to move anywhere in the United States.
Likewise, after yet another promising job lead turned sour a few months ago, Ms. Windrow reluctantly decided to start looking in California and is even considering moving overseas.
The long-term unemployed are also showing more willingness than before to accept short-term stints. After she lost her Internet job last year, Ms. Tasso took the summer off, figuring that with her physics degree from Harvard, study program at the Yale University School of Engineering and experience in running technology projects, she would find a job quickly. Then came Sept. 11, and unable to find employment, she started looking for project work.
The Enron debacle spelled an opportunity for her to use her mathematical and computer skills to do risk-management analysis for companies looking to avoid being audited, and she is now on her second long-term project.
Paradoxically, the very grind of an extended job hunt can have a therapeutic effect on people whose lives are thrown into turmoil by the uncertainty of their prospects.
"You begin to feel that your whole life is arbitrary, out of control," said one 57-year-old executive who has been out of work since June and who insisted on anonymity. "The only control you have is the ability to maintain the discipline of the search."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laurie Windrow, who worked in sales, has been job-hunting for eight months. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); SALES MANAGEMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (70%); STATISTICS (69%); CITIES (66%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (53%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: FIELD, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



220 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; 
A Political Quake In Bergen County

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: HACKENSACK 

 BODY:
THE gray sameness of the county building looming over the frayed downtown here masks the churning these days within its hallways, ground zero in a demographic shift.
 For the first time in the 16-year existence of the post of county executive, a Democrat is about to take the reins. And for only the second time in 20 years, Democrats will also dominate the freeholder board in the state's most populous county and one long considered a bastion of Republicanism. 
 The numbers tell part of the story. Bergen County is now home to 108,477 registered Democrats as against 102,217 Republicans. And in the November election, Democrats outspent Republicans $3 million to $1 million in the most expensive set of races the county had ever witnessed. 
Several weeks ago, one department head tried to ease the concerns among some staff members who are about to face the harsh reality of politics: to the victims go the spoils.
"I told them: 'Be proud. Show people what you do. They'll want more of it,' " he recalled.
But when someone asked what would happen if that did not work, he had no answer. Still, the department head, who requested anonymity, tried to be upbeat.
"This is called democracy," he said. "In Latin America, they shoot each other."
Although none of the county's 2,300 workers face that fate, their tight little world, centered in the county administration building at One Bergen Plaza here, has sustained a seismic shock.
The fact that Dennis McNerney -- the 35-year-old municipal finance banker and two-term freeholder who is about to take over as county executive -- campaigned on the promise of cutting the county payroll by 10 percent has only served to increase the anxiety .
"The basic mood in the immediate aftermath of the election was shock and depression," said Thom Ammirato, press secretary for William Schuber, who is stepping down as county executive after 12 years. "For people who had been there a long time, the prospect of losing really didn't seem very real, and with the suddenness of the loss, it immediately started dawning on everyone, 'What do I do now?' "
Mr. Ammirato went on: "Now suddenly you're watching every dollar; the economy is not great; the job prospects are not as good as they could be. Now you have to go through this sudden change and you've got less than two months to do it, and that's during the holiday season."
Like many county employees, the 46-year-old Mr. Ammirato, a former newspaper reporter and father of three, will lose his medical benefits along with his job with the change of administration in January.
"My son was hospitalized for a kidney ailment earlier this year for four days that cost $8,000," he said. "If that happens again, that's going to be a blow."
To be sure, not every county employee is facing dismissal. But for about 60 to 70 employees who have what is known as "unprotected positions" not covered by civil service or unions -- a group that includes department heads and deputies -- life could change drastically.
A spokesman for Mr. McNerney, Bill Maer, declined to comment on how many employees faced the loss of their jobs.
A transition team assembled by Mr. McNerney after the election and headed by Valerie Vainieri Huttle, a freeholder, is expected to submit a report by Friday with recommendations on the structure and duties of the various county departments.
"We do not anticipate massive layoffs," said Mr. Maer. "At some point, there will be job reductions, which will hopefully be done through attrition and early retirement buyouts."
Yet those assurances offered little comfort. Even those in protected positions are feeling a bit unnerved by the knowledge that they could be transferred or relegated to lower-paying positions.
"There is a feeling of sadness among many people," said Leonard P. Kaiser, who was Mr. Schuber's assistant for municipal and labor relations and chief of staff for his predecessor, William McDowell, for two years. "You run the emotional gamut: you're scared; you're unhappy. You just have to keep faith and go about taking care of business."
For the 54-year old Mr. Kaiser, Election Day was what he termed "black Tuesday." With the loss of Henry P. McNamara, 67, an assemblyman, to Mr. McNerney, Mr. Kaiser faces not only the loss of his job, but that of his wife as well. Barbara Kaiser serves as director of special events for the county.
To make matters worse for Mr. Kaiser, who has served as mayor of North Arlington for 20 years, he lost that race as well.
As for Adam L. Strobel, 37, chief of staff for policy for Mr. Schuber for the last 12 years, he said he was sorry that he would not be around to take on such projects as creating an open space trust fund, modernizing the county jail and building a permanent county building that the current administration had completed.
But for all of that, Mr. Strobel, who has two daughters, 6 and 3, must get another job quickly.
"I'm looking and trying to network with as many people as possible," he said. "I spent all my professional career in government and I'm trying to understand how to take all those years of experience and transfer that to either a private entity or governmental agency."
The Republican Party has been wrestling to put up a safety net.
"I've tried to help people with different agencies and authorities to get them spots in different areas with the same pension plan," said James J. Sheehan, chairman of the Bergen County Republican Party. "Some have severe medical situations in their families."
Now it is up to Mr. McNerney, who vowed to cut patronage, to fill county jobs. "Mr. McNerney is looking to fill Bergen County government with the brightest, most talented individuals to serve the needs of the citizens of the county," Mr. Maer said.
Mr. Kaiser -- who has no doubt regarded himself that way -- said without rancor that losing a job was just a fact of political life.
"You have to be a realist," he observed. "Sometimes you get the bear, and sometimes the bear gets you."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The county building in downtown Hackensack, where a Democrat will take over as county executive and Democrats will dominate the freeholder board in the state's most populous county.; Adam L. Strobel, a county policy chief, is among those looking for work. (Photographs by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EARTHQUAKES (88%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); WRITERS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



221 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Vast Possibilities, and a Buck Tip

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
IN the year 1993, a man named John, then in his early 20's, went to the opening of a film at Planet Hollywood on West 57th Street. He noticed that the coat checkers seemed to be doing O.K. As an artist, John had been hired and fired from his share of jobs. So he thought to himself: "When I get fired from my next job, I guess I'll be a coat checker."
 To John, the overcoats represented a financial future. Not long after, he got his first coat-checking job. He acquired a good idea of the true value of such a concession through his experience. Over time, he became the lessee of several coat-check concessions in New York. By supplying these establishments with coat-check boys and girls distinguished by their helpful dispositions, he supported himself handsomely while still engaging in art, his true metier. Only an experienced hat-check boy could understand the vastness of the possibilities. 
 If elements of John's story sound vaguely familiar, that's because I plagiarized them, with modifications, from A. J. Liebling's New Yorker article, "Your Hat, Sir?" in The New Yorker of April 16, 1938.
Herewith, slightly abbreviated, the original, better-written version: "In the year 1904, a man named Harry Susskind, then in his early 20's, looked through a window of Captain Jim Churchill's crowded restaurant at 46th Street and Broadway. He noticed that the male patrons laid their overcoats and hats on chairs and balanced their walking sticks precariously against tables. . . . To Susskind, the overcoats represented a financial future. He went in and proposed that Captain Churchill set aside a corner of the vestibule for coat racks. . . . Churchill accepted Susskind's offer on the spot, and the young man became the first lessee of a hat-check concession in New York. . . . Susskind had a good idea of the true value of such a concession because he had worked as a hat-check boy, in pea jacket and tight pants, at the Cafe Martin on Fifth Avenue . . . . "Only an experienced hat-check boy could understand the vastness of the possibilities."
What is remarkable about Liebling's story is that in 100 years, not much has changed. John, presumably like Harry Susskind, is a real person, a kind of Deep Throat of the coat-check industry. I consulted him by cellphone last week, as the city was engulfed in a deep freeze. I had spent the previous night on the town, the kind of debauchery that reporters like me, with husbands, children and much more puritanical mores than were common in "The Front Page" days, rarely if ever indulge in. 
Liebling, I'm sure, had the advantage of copious first-hand experience. I avoid checking my coat at all times. My excuse is that I have to be able to retrieve it quickly, so I can dash off to the next fire. Arriving at Guastavino's, a modern restaurant under the 59th Street Bridge, I did not check my North Face parka (warm at fires and funerals). But the coat-check boy, in tight black T-shirt and matching pants, slipped it out of my hand before I could protest. 
For the first time, I took a close look at the checkers and realized that unlike the women hawking cigarettes and gardenias in 40's movies, who looked like Hollywood starlets, the coat-check crew all appeared to have arrived the night before from very far away. 
Young Doung Topgyal, the head checker, is a 29-year-old Tibetan who came to New York via Nepal five years ago and worked in a chair factory. The scars on his face, he said, are from beatings by Nepalese police. His all-female crew was Ecuadorean and Mexican. 
They were unfailingly polite. In return, as Liebling observed, less than 1 percent of the people who used the checkroom omitted the tip. The ones who didn't tip were women who had neglected to bring their wallets. The standard tip has been $1 for 20 years, despite inflation, up from a dime or quarter in Liebling's day. "It's not much, but I guess all the dollars are going to add up -- that's what people figure," John said. High tippers still give $5, as they did in 1938, and one satisfied customer dropped $13 into the bowl the other night.
By the evening's end, the crew of five had checked 179 coats. Split five ways, the tips came to $48 each. How John profits is a mystery. In the old days, the concessionaire typically paid the restaurant and kept a percentage of the tips. Sometimes, he paid a salary to his workers. "Go work as a coat-check and figure it out," said John, loath to divulge his secrets.
At midnight, Mr. Topgyal rode the R train home to his wife and baby in Woodside, Queens. But first, he handed me my coat. I did not tip. He was as sweet as could be about it. Next time I go to a restaurant, I will check my coat. And leave a tip.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nathan Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DISMISSALS (77%); PLAGIARISM (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) RESTAURANTS; LABOR 

COMPANY: PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

PERSON: HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA; LIEBLING, A J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



222 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
If Tax History Is a Guide, The Poor Are in Trouble

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
THE road to tax policy reform is paved with good intentions, or so it seems. Republicans in Congress and the White House are proposing changes to the income tax that could indeed lead to a more productive economy. The resulting tax code could also be more slanted against the poor than at any time in history. And judging by the Republicans' record, there's not much hope that they will address those crushing side effects.
 Most of the Republicans' proposals aim to improve incentives for working and saving. A flat rate for the personal income tax, for example, might be set somewhere between the current lowest and highest rates. The change would make it more attractive for high-earning -- and presumably highly skilled -- people to work more. 
 Another idea -- abolishing the tax on earned income and replacing it with a national sales tax -- could also lead people to work harder. It would almost certainly make collections easier, because tax returns would become much simpler and most retailers already collect sales tax.
Republicans are also talking about doing away with three taxes that affect the return on investments: the tax on corporate profits, the double tax on dividends and the tax on capital gains.
No one really knows who bears the burden of the tax on profits, but economists are pretty sure that it makes investing in companies less attractive. After companies pay the tax on their profits, many give investors part of the remainder as dividends. When investors receive the dividends, the money is taxed again. The total tax rate on dividends can amount to about 60 percent, shrinking the return for saving and investing.
The other part of most investors' return -- how much their stocks increase in value -- is cut by 20 percent by the tax on capital gains. By taking a share of gains and giving credits for losses, the tax also guards speculators from stocks' full riskiness. Ending it could encourage saving and help expose investors to the market's true fluctuations.
To achieve the most efficient of all possible economic worlds, all of these ideas would probably be good ones. Yet all of them would also shift the burden of taxation toward the poor and away from the wealthy.
Thanks to personal income tax rates that rise with incomes, many Americans may have the impression that the United States has an extremely progressive tax system. That is not the case.
In fact, the last comprehensive study of the ultimate burdens of taxation, completed in 1985, showed that the entire tax and transfer system, including personal and corporate taxes and government subsidies and entitlements, had virtually no effect on the distribution of income in the United States. In the years since that study, completed by Joseph A. Pechman, who spent 22 years directing the Brookings Institution's program for economic studies, tax rates applying to the wealthy have fallen substantially.
If anything, the current tax system is one tipped in favor of those happy few who already control most of the nation's income. Only during part of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's term, in the mid-1950's, was the tax system ever as unfavorable to the disadvantaged as it might be in the Republicans' ideal future.
SOME in the Republican leadership appear willing to consider ways to ensure that the rich would not get richer at the expense of the poor. More changes, including exemptions from a national sales tax (as suggested by the retiring House majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas) or enhancing Medicaid and the earned-income tax credit, could help to level the playing field.
If history is any gauge, though, it's unlikely that these considerations will dominate the Republican agenda. Since the individual income tax began in 1913, the top marginal tax rate has risen only once under a Republican president (who was the current president's father). The rate has fallen seven times under Republicans and twice under Democrats, who also raised it six times. If someone is to come to the rescue of the poor, it probably won't be President Bush.
This history makes plenty of sense. Republican voters are generally better off than Democrats. They are less likely to receive Medicaid or the earned-income tax credit and more likely to collect dividends and pay top marginal tax rates. Moreover, people usually underestimate the chances that they'll ever need public assistance. And the poorest people are the least likely of all Americans to vote.
The current tax system is far from perfect, from an economist's point of view, but it is not patently unfair. Can the Republican leadership be trusted to balance useful changes with concerns about inequality? Stay tuned.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday about the possible impact of Republican tax proposals misstated one by Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the retiring House majority leader. He proposed exempting portions of certain individuals' income from a flat tax, not exempting their purchases from a national sales tax.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows top marginal rate for federal individual income tax, from 1920-2000. (Source: Tax Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SALES TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); RETAILERS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) TAXATION 

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



223 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Success Stories in Places Where Few Funds Dare to Go

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
THE best-performing emerging stock market so far this year is Pakistan's, up 82.3 percent. Filling out the top four are Argentina, up 57.2 percent; Venezuela, 49.1 percent; and Colombia, 44.7 percent.
 Considering the circumstances, that is some performance. Pakistan is in the middle of the war against terrorism as an ally of the United States. Argentina has had five presidents in the last year and is in its fourth year of recession. In Venezuela, President Hugo Chavez was ousted temporarily earlier this year and faced strikes against his government last week. 
 Participating in those countries' markets has not been easy for most American investors. But that turns out to be a lucky break for Americans who might have been interested in buying stocks in two of them -- Argentina and Venezuela.
When these markets' gains, in local currencies, are translated back into dollars, they become losses of 56 percent for Argentina and 14.2 percent for Venezuela, through Thursday, according to country indexes of Morgan Stanley Capital International.
In Colombia, the market is still up 18.6 percent in dollar terms, even though a decline of 18.1 percent in the peso reduced stock gains there by more than half. But even that return looks good compared with the 21.6 percent decline in the MSCI index for the United States. In Pakistan, the rupee rose 2.7 percent against the dollar, pushing the market's return to 87.1 percent.
Two ways to play such markets disappeared in 2001 with the shuttering of closed-end mutual funds for Pakistan and Argentina. And while investors can buy some stocks in all four countries through American depository receipts, picking stocks in emerging markets is always difficult.
Gaining exposure though open-end mutual funds is difficult, too, because big funds do not dabble much in these countries.
"If you can play these markets, with their high volatility, for a bounce, that is one thing," said Gary P. Motyl, chief investment officer at the Templeton Institutional Group. "To find a stock with a longer-term outlook is another." Because Templeton wants that longer-term view, Mr. Motyl said its institutional funds own no stocks in Pakistan, Colombia and Venezuela and have minimal exposure in Argentina.
The Templeton Developing Markets Trust, a $1.5 billion fund available to individual investors and led by Mark Mobius, who has proselytized for emerging markets, had no holdings in Pakistan, Colombia or Venezuela at the end of October. Its Argentine exposure was less than 1 percent.
According to the most recent data from Morningstar Inc., only one mutual fund has any investments in Pakistan and only five own stocks in Colombia. Even regional funds focusing on Latin America pay little attention to Colombia: of the 10 regional funds, only three have investments there. 
More funds are invested in the bigger Argentine and Venezuelan markets, but even those numbers have dwindled. Of the 83 funds that can choose these markets, only 23 are in Venezuela and 37 in Argentina.
Then there is the Acadian Emerging Markets fund, which Morningstar says is the only fund to own stocks in Pakistan; it also has investments in Colombia, Venezuela and Argentina. "We are looking for markets where there is potential for changes in the fundamentals and low valuations," said John Chisholm, co-chief investment officer of Acadian Asset Management.
Acadian owns one stock in Pakistan, Pakistan Telecommunication; four in Colombia, including Banco de Bogota and the brewer Bavaria; three in Venezuela, including the telecommunications company known as CANTV; and three in Argentina, including the pipe maker Siderca.
The fund, with $43 million in assets, is up 4.9 percent for the year and has done better than 98 percent of its emerging-markets competitors. The fund has placed a big bet on Colombia, with 4 percent of the fund's assets there, far above Colombia's weighting of 0.10 percent in the MSCI emerging market index. About 1 percent of its assets are in Pakistan, compared with the MSCI weighting of 0.22 percent.
Those two bets have been good for investors, providing one-quarter of the year-to-date return.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Emerging Winners"Here are the top performers among emerging markets this year. PakistanRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +82.3%RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +87.1% ArgentinaRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +57.2RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: -56.0 VenezuelaRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +49.1RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: -14.2 ColombiaRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +44.7RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +18.6 Sri LankaRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +28.9RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +24.2 PeruRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +24.2RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +21.8 ThailandRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +22.7RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +23.9 Czech RepublicRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +20.1RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +38.2 KoreaRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +11.8RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +19.7 RussiaRETURNS THIS YEAR, THROUGH THURSDAY, IN LOCAL CURRENCY: +11.6RETURN IN U.S. DOLLARS: +11.6. (Source: Morgan Stanley Capital International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); BONDS (74%); RECESSION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TERRORISM (57%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (61%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (57%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); ARGENTINA (97%); COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



224 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
A Bumper Crop For Tree Sales?

BYLINE:  By Vivian Marino 

 BODY:
After a strong start, many retailers have turned cautiously optimistic about the holiday shopping season. But they're not the only ones feeling hopeful these days: sellers of natural Christmas trees are also predicting healthy sales. 
 The National Christmas Tree Association in St. Louis estimates that 33 million to 35 million real trees will be sold around the country this year, based on a poll of about 1,000 consumers conducted in late November. About 28 million trees were sold last year, it said. 
 Jim Corliss, the trade group's president and the owner of a tree farm in Newburgh, Me., said that while the weak economy had caused many people to cut back on big expenses, like travel or dining out, they were turning toward more traditional holiday activities. 
The poll found that 82 percent of Americans planned to display a Christmas tree this year, up from 76 percent last year.
Of course, some homes will have more than one tree -- like the White House. Last week, George and Laura Bush were presented with an 18-foot noble fir that was grown by a family in Washington State and chosen with the help of the association. That tree stands in the Blue Room. Vivian Marino

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (92%); RETAILERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (77%) CHRISTMAS; CHRISTMAS TREES; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CHRISTMAS TREE ASSOCIATION (58%)

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



225 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2463 words

HEADLINE: Fighting an Old Fight 

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
WEDGED between the Columbia, a luxury high-rise, and the Royal York, a rundown single-room-occupancy hotel, is a flower and fruit garden. This little patch, known as the Lotus Garden, is perched atop a parking garage on West 97th Street near Broadway, and although the soil is less than four feet deep, it supports two koi ponds, a handsome peach tree, a spray of rose bushes and herbs, and some Boston ivy.
 But not everything in this community garden is so lovely. On a recent visit, its president, Mary Sherman Parsons, rattled off a list of items she has found there in recent months: hypodermic needles, crack vials, razor blades, dirty toilet paper. Earlier this year, she said, a 4-year-old boy stepped on one of the needles and had to undergo a month of debilitating treatment to stave off H.I.V. infection. 
 "It's disgusting," Ms. Parsons said as she reached into a garbage can labeled Dangerous Trash and removed a plastic Baggie containing a rotting condom. "The bathrooms don't work," she added, pointing to windows of the Royal York that overlook a quince tree. "So they throw it out the window." 
The Lotus Garden is a symbol of a profound change roiling the Upper West Side: the re-emergence of the single-room occupancy hotel, or S.R.O. 
In the 1960's and 70's, the Upper West Side had perhaps the city's largest concentration of S.R.O.'s, occupied largely by a poor, troubled and sometimes violent population. Growing frustration with the problems these buildings engendered, combined with an increasingly robust economy, helped reduce their numbers sharply. But in the last year, faced with a mushrooming homeless population, the city has resumed placing homeless people, many of them single people with AIDS, in these buildings. 
Although S.R.O.'s are found throughout the city, residents here contend that an unfair number are clustered in their neighborhood. The police in the 24th Precinct, which includes the Upper West Side between 86th and 110th Streets, report that some two dozen S.R.O. shelters fall within the precinct's boundaries, more than in any other in the city. Upper West Siders say they must dodge not baby strollers but aggressive panhandlers, strung-out prostitutes and combative drug dealers.
There is another issue. With the deep tradition of liberalism and social activism on the Upper West Side, S.R.O.'s present a special problem. This recent chapter has sparked a hard look at the community's current character.
"The neighborhood has become very upscale and whiter and less tolerant," said Councilman Philip Reed, who represents the area. "There's a younger generation of people who didn't fight the old fights. And it doesn't sound like there's a lot of tolerance in their voices."

Two Residents, Two Worlds
Tom Sunderland and Mildred Ortega live on either side of the Lotus Garden, but they might as well come from different planets.
Mr. Sunderland, a criminal justice professor who owns a co-op in the Columbia, lives in a building with a concierge, a health club and other trappings of prosperity. A three-bedroom unit with a sweeping view of the Hudson can fetch nearly $1 million. 
Ms. Ortega, a Venezuelan immigrant who lives in the Royal York, makes her home in a structure with dingy linoleum floors, broken windows and cockroaches. Her apartment, no bigger than a laundry room, costs $150 a week.
For years, such contrasts have coexisted on the Upper West Side with relatively little friction. "We have public housing here, and we have no problems with that," said Mr. Sunderland, who has a ponytail and volunteers as an auxiliary police officer. "Things were great."
Ms. Ortega also feels at home, even if she can't afford the $3 lattes at the dozen Starbucks nearby. "I'm a housekeeper," she said proudly, as she eyed the bigger apartments across the street. "I work for them, and they work for Wall Street."
But this balance has been shifting.
For about a year, the city's HIV/AIDS Services Administration has taken over 35 rooms at the Royal York and filled them with homeless AIDS patients. Many have histories of drug abuse and prostitution. Some are frail and nearly bedridden. All are left to their own devices for most of the day, and are wholly unsupervised at night. The 60 permanent residents complain of noise and chaos and say the ruckus is especially bad after 2 a.m., when drug dealers and prostitutes roam the hallways looking for customers, money and a good time. The most that Ms. Ortega and others can do is tack a handwritten notice to the door, declaring, "I do not buy or sell drugs, thanks."
Six blocks north, at the Malibu Hotel on West 103rd Street, the city has taken over about 100 rooms for homeless adults with AIDS since last April. Ever since, neighbors there say, the Malibu has been a mecca for drug dealers and prostitutes. Gangs of young men and women have been seen loitering outside the Malibu and along the Broadway mall, asking for money and harassing passers-by. 
"There's feces in the gutter," said Marlene Lee, a court reporter who lives across the street. "My doorman has seen guys urinating against our building and lighting up crack pipes. Then there was a mugging that I personally heard at 1:30 in the morning. Terrible, terrible screams. It was a delivery guy who was beaten in the face with a battery held in a sock. His screams were like an animal in agony."
Complaints have also been directed at the Frant Hotel on West 101st Street and two other S.R.O.'s where the city's Department of Homeless Services has quietly set up shelters with beds for 88 homeless people. The problems there appear minor compared with those at the AIDS shelters, in part because these buildings house families, not single adults. Still, the rooms are tiny and there are no common areas. 
Neighborhood residents are also angry because of what they see as an issue of equity. The Upper West Side, they feel, is again being asked to bear a disproportionate share of the city's homeless burden. 
"We get all the S.R.O.'s," said Lisa Lehr, co-chairwoman of the West 90's and West 100's Neighborhood Coalition. "You won't find them in the Silk Stocking district."
Figures from the city show a more complex picture. Only 8 of the 199 S.R.O. shelters used by the homeless services agency -- just 4 percent -- are on the Upper West Side. And of the 54 S.R.O. shelters used by the AIDS services agency, only 9 -- 17 percent -- are there. But because those nine AIDS sites are so large, they house 28 percent of the 2,266 AIDS patients currently in S.R.O. shelters. These figures do not include more than 10 S.R.O.'s for the homeless, run by nonprofit agencies, between West 72nd and West 111th Streets. (The total number of sites is hard to ascertain because of confidentially rules, overlap among city agencies and the number of groups and agencies involved in running sites.)

Evolution of a Troubled Place
Paradoxically, many Upper West Side S.R.O.'s were once reputable, even glamorous apartment houses with evocative names, like the Royal York. During and after World War II, these buildings were carved into single rooms to accommodate the single men who flooded into the city. 
For low-income New Yorkers, S.R.O.'s were often the best alternative to homelessness. By the late 60's and into the 1970's, however, increasing crime, much of it drug-related, led to a worsening of conditions inside these buildings. In response, the city encouraged landlords to reconvert more than 100,000 S.R.O. units to full-service apartments, a policy that has haunted the city ever since. The move aggravated a homeless crisis that forced the city to reverse course in 1985 and impose a moratorium on conversions. 
The city put the newly homeless in the leftover S.R.O.'s, using them as welfare hotels. With the crack cocaine epidemic in full swing, these buildings became places of destitution and danger, with drug addicts mingling with the elderly and the mentally unstable. By the late 1980's, AIDS had created another housing crisis, and the city responded by placing homeless AIDS patients in these buildings, creating daunting health and safety issues that the city and the S.R.O.'s were ill equipped to handle.
Upper West Siders were outraged. According to a 1995 report by Community Board 7, which covers the neighborhood, the city squeezed nearly 45 percent of the homeless AIDS population into the blocks between West 92nd and West 112th Streets. When Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter toured the Riverside Hotel on West 109th Street during this period, the police made her wear a bulletproof vest. 
"The conditions were horrible, filthy and infested, not the kind of environment a healthy person should be in, let alone a sick person," Ms. Reiter recalled recently. Soon after her visit, the city imposed a cap on the number of homeless AIDS patients on the Upper West Side.
The image of S.R.O.'s changed yet again during the recent economic boom. Cushioned by a budget surplus, the city began reinventing the S.R.O. by joining with nonprofit groups to build and renovate units that offered more comprehensive services. Instead of "welfare hotels," the buildings would be called "supportive" S.R.O.'s. The concept proved popular. Euclid Hall, for example, a 292-room hotel on West 86th Street that is run by the nonprofit West Side Federation for Senior Housing and includes a drug treatment center, is widely regarded as a neighborhood amenity.
At the same time, a tourist boom was creating a new market for midpriced boutique hotels. Landlords of S.R.O.'s quickly retiled moldy bathrooms, installed air-conditioners and replaced long-term tenants with backpackers willing to pay $150 a night for a room that had netted $10 a day. By 1996, more than half of the Upper West Side's 21 privately owned S.R.O.'s had been converted to tourist hotels or student hostels. The Malibu, once reviled for its drug-infested squalor, was promoted online as a "stylish and comfortable" budget hotel on the "trendy Upper West Side."
Within the last year, the pendulum has swung back once more. The owners of at least seven of these S.R.O.'s, including the Malibu and the Royal York, have asked the city to fill their empty beds with homeless people. While supportive S.R.O.'s remain, there is nothing about the new institutions that echoes that older model.
"After Sept. 11, the whole hotel market collapsed," said Alan Lapes, who owns six S.R.O.'s that have been turned into homeless shelters. "Occupancy was down to 20 to 30 percent. You need at least 65 to 70 percent to break even. I was losing money like crazy." 
At one of his S.R.O.'s, the Ellington Hotel on West 111th Street, the city pays up to $85 a night -- more than $2,500 a month -- to place a homeless family in a cubicle-size room containing three beds, a closet-size bathroom and a one-piece kitchen unit. 
"This is my new business," Mr. Lapes said. "I'm looking for more locations."
Fueling that business is a swelling homeless population. The homeless services agency now works with some 37,000 people, the highest in three years, said Linda I. Gibbs, the agency's commissioner. Her office receives 100 new requests for housing every day. 

The Liberal Dilemma
On the Upper West Side, where a person can make a career out of attending community meetings, the debate about S.R.O.'s has returned to center stage. There are endless town hall gatherings, detailed position papers and new task forces, all devoted to the issue. Community Board 7, which disbanded its S.R.O. Task Force seven years ago, is considering reactivating it.
A typical discussion took place a few weeks ago at a meeting of the community board's Health and Human Services Committee. The two dozen residents who gathered in the board's offices on West 87th Street seemed on edge, unsure whether the city officials who had been invited would actually show up.
"Who wants to buy in a neighborhood with all these S.R.O.'s?" one middle-aged woman demanded. "My property value is possibly and probably being lowered." 
Another person chimed in: "The Upper West Side has been too accepting. We can be liberal, but we don't have to be stupid."
Half the audience nodded in agreement. The other half, including many longtime S.R.O. residents, sat quietly on their hands. 
The tone of the meeting was evidence that in a subtle but significant way, the debate over S.R.O.'s has shifted. 
"Nimbyism on the West Side is a fairly recent phenomenon," said Terry Poe, a tenant organizer at the West Side S.R.O. Law Project, run by the Goddard-Riverside Community Center. "Before, the concern was about driving out long-term, permanent S.R.O. residents. The feeling now is that their neighborhood is being ruined by a high concentration of problematic people."
Part of the change springs from the community's good fortune during the recent economic boom. Luxury housing, upscale restaurants and chain stores pushed north of 96th Street, a traditional dividing line. Stockbrokers joined teachers and writers on co-op boards and in block associations. 
The return of S.R.O.'s also magnified existing worries when the economy turned down. Residents already sensed a rise in panhandling, homelessness and drug dealing. At the same time, the number of officers in the 24th Precinct has shrunk to 140, down from 240 several years ago. 
"What you have is more of a dichotomy," said Kate Krusko, a real estate broker who has lived on West 97th Street for two decades. "The housing stock has improved, and now you have this other layer of homeless shelters coming in. The contrast is greater."
A vocal minority at the community meeting sought to remind their fellow residents of the neighborhood's compassionate roots. This group sees no conflict between wanting a better quality of life for oneself and the same for S.R.O. residents. The real issue, they assert, is not the S.R.O.'s but the lack of social services.
Daniel O'Donnell, the area's incoming state assemblyman, is among those trying to reframe the debate. 
"My major concern has to do with the quality of social services being provided," said Mr. O'Donnell, who lives across the street from the Ellington. "It's noisier at night than it used to be. But when there's no communal space, or a place for kids to play, that tends to spill out onto the street."
When Maryanne Schretzman, a deputy commissioner at the city's homeless services agency, finally arrived, she sought to assure residents that the city did not regard the Upper West Side as a dumping ground for S.R.O. shelters. "Every community is dealing with this," she said at the meeting. "We have record numbers of homeless people entering the system."
The audience was skeptical. "Why not put them where the rich people live?" demanded Luba Tcheresky of West End Avenue, who says she has never felt less safe. "Why not the Upper East Side?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the 1970's, S.R.O.'s like the West Towers Hotel, top, were places of violence and squalor. Mildred Ortega, above, battles problems in her S.R.O., the Royal York, near left, which is next to a luxury coop. (Photographs by Monika Graff for The New York Times; top, Jack Manning/The New York Times 1975 )(pg. 1); Boston ivy from the Lotus Garden, above, climbs the walls of the Royal York, top. In the 1970's, S.R.O.'s like the Mirog Studios, inset, on West 99th Street, served basically as welfare hotels. (Photographs by Monika Graff for The New York Times; inset, Paul Hosefros/The New York Times 1973 )(pg. 13) Chart/Map: "Tests of Tolerance"Upper West Side residents say they bear a disproportionate share of the S.R.O. burden. There are now at least 23 S.R.O.s for the homeless between West 72nd and West 111th Streets, according to city and private groups. Map of New York City hgihlighting Upper West Side. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); GARDENING (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (74%); POLICE FORCES (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); PANHANDLING (62%); LIBERALISM (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%) ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; AUTOMOBILES 

PERSON: MOTAVALLI, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



226 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: A New Eurofestation 

BYLINE:  By JULIA CHAPLIN 

 BODY:
THERE were no celebrities on Wednesday night at Pangaea, a nightclub in downtown Manhattan with African safari decor. Instead, at 2 a.m. the reserved V.I.P. tables were teeming with Europeans drinking bottles of Moet and Ketel One.
 "Look, there's that beautiful girl I met in Monaco last summer," said Jean Bernard Fernandez-Versini, 21, a New York University student from France, who summers on the Riviera, spends winter vacations in St. Barts and took last year off just to party. 
 Mr. Fernandez-Versini's evening had gotten off to a bumpy start. He had canceled his usual 10:30 p.m. dinner with an entourage of models and European friends at Downtown because Giuseppe Cipriani, one of the owners, was in Italy. "It's not the same energy when Giuseppe's not there," Mr. Fernandez-Versini said in a thick French accent. Instead, he rerouted to Serafina on Lafayette Street. 
There he spied a stunning young woman at a long table for 20, and jumped up to whisper to one of the restaurant's promoters, "Can you ask her to come over to my table when I'm finished eating?"
She joined Mr. Fernandez-Versini as soon as he'd washed his last bite down with a Red Bull and vodka. "Come to St. Barts for New Year's!" he proposed.
Yes, those hard-partying jet-setters known to American wags as Eurotrash, who flocked to New York City by the Concordeload in the 1980's sporting black mock turtlenecks, leather pants and sometimes dubious aristocratic titles, are back on the town.
They can be found shelling out $350 for a bottle of Ketel One at reserved tables every Wednesday after midnight at Pangaea, at a party given by Carmen D'Alessio, a Peruvian-born promoter who brought some of the first Europeans to Studio 54 in the late 70's. Elsewhere on Wednesday nights, French, Italians and a few Middle Easterners groove at Lotus, which imports their favorite D.J.'s like Stephane Pompougnac from the Hotel Costes in Paris, and Jack E from the Caves du Roy in St.-Tropez.
A Euro scene also flourishes at Bungalow 8 after 1 a.m. most nights, and at Powder, a new club in the meatpacking district with D.J.'s who spin deafening techno. Later this month Cielo is scheduled to open in the West Village; a dance club, it is inspired by the Pacha club on Ibiza and decorated by the same designer who did the Nikki Beach Club in St.-Tropez. In March, a branch of Buddha Bar, a popular restaurant and lounge in Paris, is to open in the meatpacking district with an Asian jungle theme. (Eurotrash hangouts, apparently, favor a motif of grass huts and tribal masks.)
"This crowd is recession-proof," said Amy Sacco, the owner of Bungalow 8, who said she considers her customers "international," not Eurotrash.
"They're super-high-end, well traveled and don't think twice about spending a lot of money to have a good time," she said. Marc Biron, a member of the first Euro wave, who has resurfaced promoting Euro parties at Estate and Lotus, struck a variation on this theme. "Europeans love to party," he said. "It doesn't matter if they have money or not -- they will always manage to buy a bottle and go out dancing."
The original crowd of up-all-night, no-office-to-go-to Europeans arrived in New York in the late 1970's, fleeing high taxes, unstable economies and kidnappings. Taki Theodoracopulos, the Greek shipping heir-turned-society writer who wrote the "Eurotrash" column in The East Side Express in the early 80's, explained the origin of his tribe.
"The Americans have this rather obscene habit of working," he said. "So when the Europeans came over, you'd look around at a nightclub at 3 a.m., and there'd be 40 Euros hanging around while the Americans had gone to bed at 11:30 p.m. because they had to get up the next morning and go to Wall Street. The term was a little pejorative, but we had a sense of humor about it."
In the early 80's Mr. Biron helped found the Junior International Club, in part to help Europeans vault over the velvet ropes defending clubs.
"There was a whole group of privileged kids coming to New York," he recalled. "Albert of Monaco, Prince Dimitri of Yugoslavia. They wanted to get into all the private and exclusive clubs, and Americans had this reaction.
"Not all the Europeans had money, but it appeared that they all did, because they had brilliant titles and great clothes. So I started holding parties at Regine's and Studio 54, and it was the first time any of them had been allowed in."
After the 1987 stock market plunge, many of the Europeans went home. The scene fizzled. They began trickling back during the 90's go-go years. With the collapse of Silicon Alley and the waves of Wall Street layoffs, New Yorkers have receded from the nightclub world, leaving the Europeans, like pilings at low tide, all the more visible.
"They're partying on as if the Dow was at 11,000," said Serge Becker, a founder of Joe's Pub, who retains some of the love-hate that New Yorkers feel for such out-of-towners in their nightspots.
"It's a totally uninspired, boring crowd," he added. "Yeah, they might pick up the tab, but you still have to hang out with them."
That is a minority report. Regarding the old Eurotrash and the new Eurotrash, the biggest change in perception seems to be that most New Yorkers no longer turn up their noses at them. At a time when Americans including Sean Combs and Jenna Bush have discovered the retro chic of St.-Tropez, many New Yorkers are dropping in on the Euro-flavored club nights, nostalgic for their last beach vacation.
"The stigma of Eurotrash has disappeared," said Mark Baker, an owner of Lotus. "In the last few years it's become cool to associate with Europeans on their turf and be able to drop names of the coolest club in St. Barts. New York went to St.-Tropez last summer, and now St.-Tropez has come to New York."
In the spring, Smirnoff Ice introduced a television commercial in which two American guys hook up with a rich European and end up partying in a limousine and on a yacht and a private plane. As Beth Davies, director of brand public relations for Diageo, the company that owns Smirnoff Ice, explained, "It's timely because the Euro jet-set life has become so prevalent in the media that Americans feel that it's attainable."
Giampiero Rispo, 43, an Italian who was dancing to the French house music at Lotus on a recent Wednesday night in a blue cashmere jacket, said: "Today to be called Eurotrash is not negative. Americans have realized that the lifestyle is a lot of fun and they can be part of it."
Joseph Dahan, 22, who was born in Morocco and raised in France, works in New York in his father's international children's clothing business. Almost every day he goes home from the office, takes a disco nap from 7 to midnight and then goes to Lotus or Powder or Pangaea until 5 in the morning. In the wee hours on Thursday, he sat at Pangaea amid the gazelle antlers, African spears and bongo drummers with several friends he had met in St.-Tropez. A thin blonde in low-waisted jeans and a partly exposed thong walked past.
"How about a glass of Champagne?" he asked, jumping up.
Mr. Fernandez-Versini, who was at a table nearby, said that one of his favorite things about New York is American women. "French girls are better dressed, but they are like Upper East Side girls," he said. "You know: long dates and complicated relationships."
Mr. Fernandez-Versini, who began studying business administration at N.Y.U. this fall, divides his summers between Morocco and St.-Tropez. In the fall he goes to Florence to buy clothes, he said, then to Monaco and to the fashion shows in New York and Paris. His parents own a house in St. Barts, which he visits every year from Christmas through early January. He said he's able to afford the travel and the hard partying thanks to an allowance from his parents.
Nina Nikpour, a 21-year-old New Yorker in a fuzzy white sweater, sat at Mr. Fernandez-Versini's reserved table. "I just love European men in leather pants," Ms. Nikpour said. "American men always talk about how much stuff costs. European men just pay."
Although the stereotype of the party-hearty young European in New York has some truth to it, looks can sometimes deceive. At an art opening on Wednesday in a space in Chelsea Market that is the future site of Zukabar, a tribal theme bar and restaurant to be operated by the owners of Buddha Bar, Aymeric Lombard, a French-Italian investment banker, took in an exhibition called "Lost Worlds." A mostly European crowd made dinner plans on cellphones below the new agey photomontages of Buddhas, glaciers and landmarks like the Eiffel Tower and the Tower of Pisa.
"The big trick about Europeans is that we look like we have more money than we do," said Mr. Lombard, 31, who was neatly dressed in a collared shirt and a crew neck sweater. "You can get very nice, cheap clothes in Naples and look better than Americans who spent thousands on an outfit at Gucci or John Varvatos."
Noni Helms, 26, a German investment banker who moved to New York last year, dresses every evening in a suit, puts his tie in his pocket and heads for the clubs around midnight. He leaves them at about 3:30, pausing to attach his tie, and arrives at work by 4, when the European markets have opened.
"New York is great fun," said Mr. Helms on a recent Wednesday at Lotus, where he was slumped against a modelesque brunette in the back room. "Except I always feel jet-lagged."

To Rub Shoulders With a Euro
THESE are some New York spots favored by Europeans:

BUNGALOW 8 (club), 515 West 27th Street. After 1 a.m.
DOWNTOWN (restaurant), 376 West Broadway (Broome Street). Late dinner.
FELIX (restaurant), 340 West Broadway (Grand Street). Sunday brunch.
LE BILBOQUET (restaurant), 25 East 63rd Street. Saturday brunch.
LOTUS (club), 409 West 14th Street; Wednesday nights.
PANGAEA (club), 417 Lafayette Street (Fourth Street). Wednesday nights.
POWDER (club), 431 West 16th Street.
REHAB (club), 380 Lafayette Street (Great Jones Street). Weekends.
SERAFINA (restaurant), 393 Lafayette Street (Fourth Street). Wednesday night late dinner.
And two places that are coming soon: 

BUDDHA BAR (club), Ninth Avenue at 16th Street. Opening March 2003.
CIELO (club), 18 Little West 12th Street. Opening New Year's Eve.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture in this section last Sunday with an article about the increased number of Europeans frequenting Manhattan nightclubs was published in error. While it showed the club Pangaea during a party largely attended by Europeans, the young man prominently shown holding a glass and leaning across several people was not European. He was Robert Denning of Greenwich, Conn.

GRAPHIC: Photos: RHYMES WITH BASH -- Faces in the European crowds that are gathering again at New York nightspots like Powder, top left; Pangaea, above; and Lotus. (Photographs by Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. 1); THEN AND NOW -- An 80's scene at Xenon, above, and the Euro crowd today at Pangaea, above right and right. Inset, Taki Theodoracopulos, who wrote a "Eurotrash" column in the 80's. (Owen Franken/Corbis); (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times); (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (74%) NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS 

PERSON: CHAPLIN, JULIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (88%); MONACO (73%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



227 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Online Shopping Is Up, and Prices Can Still Be Down

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER 

 BODY:
IN recent years, Internet merchants bent over backward to persuade people to shop online, with many offering deep discounts or promotional gifts like T-shirts and electronic gadgets. While these deals may no longer be necessary -- as shown in the robust online sales figures issued last week -- shoppers can still find Internet bargains this season. They may just have to look a little harder for them.
 "There are deals to be had; they're just not at the price, velocity and depth that they used to be," said Elaine Rubin, the chairwoman of Shop.org, an association of online retailers that is part of the National Retail Federation. 
 Online shoppers are now more likely to find coupons, rebates or free shipping -- deals often resembling what many retailers have been offering offline, industry experts say. While there have also been sales promotions, some have already come and gone: many merchants offered early-bird holiday specials, beginning in November and ending early this month. 
Shoppers who missed these sales, or have neither the time nor inclination to search for bargains, may want to visit one of a growing number of Web sites that do the work for them. These include price-comparison sites, like BizRate.com and MySimon.com, along with a growing number of sites, like Amazing-Bargains.com, FatWallet.com, eDealFinder.com and DealNews.com, that publish information about online discounts and post coupons and rebate information.
Ken Cassar, a retail analyst at Jupiter Research, which tracks Internet sales, says some merchants are choosing to distribute coupons on sites featuring deals, instead of on their own home pages. "The consumer has to work a little bit harder, which is exactly how the retailer wants it," Mr. Cassar said. 
Bargain hunters can also visit one of several Web sites that sell liquidated goods and excess inventory at deep discounts, like Overstock.com and SmartBargains.com. 
"What I think is happening is that the Internet is evolving away from these dramatic discounts across all items into what is amounting to an inventory-clearing mechanism, particularly for clothing," said Joseph T. Abate, an economist at Lehman Brothers who tracks Internet commerce. "Where things are odd-sized or out of season, you're seeing very big discounting."
According to an annual survey that Lehman Brothers conducted in August, prices for merchandise sold online rose 6 percent this year, compared with an increase of 0.8 percent last year. Prices were essentially unchanged for merchandise sold in brick-and-mortar stores. The survey, which has been conducted since 1999, compares prices at online sites, including shipping charges, with prices at traditional stores in New York City. It looks at more than 100 products, from toothpaste to videocassette recorders.
Some of the best online discounts can be found on toys and prescription drugs, according to the survey. Savings were small or nonexistent for products like televisions and VCR's, it found.
ONLINE merchants may be cutting back on sales promotions and discounts simply because they can. Consumers looking for a convenient way to shop, or at least to compare prices, have been flocking to the Internet, and concern about Internet security is declining because many merchants have instituted safeguards to protect credit cards and other personal data.
Over the three-day Thanksgiving shopping weekend, consumers spent $453.4 million online, excluding spending on travel, a 67 percent gain over the period last year, according to a report by comScore Media Metrix, which measures buying from a cross section of 1.5 million Internet users.E-commerce continued to gather momentum on the Monday after Thanksgiving, with sales totaling $231.5 million, up 37 percent from the corresponding day last year. "Black Monday," as that day is known in the retail industry, is the busiest online shopping day of the year, because it is the first day back at work, where many people do their online buying.
Like many other people, Alexander M. Drosin, 33, the president of a New York company that distributes television programs, says he likes to shop wherever he can get the best deal. Mr. Drosin said he found a $300 Ralph Lauren jacket marked down to $100 in a traditional store last weekend.
After spotting many other bargains in stores, he said, "the online retailers are going to have to be a lot more aggressive" to attract customers.
He says he has found a few deals online lately. He bought a Malo cashmere sweater at BlueFly.com, a site that specializes in discount luxury goods. The price was $299, a 62 percent discount from the original price of $795.
Mr. Drosin, who lives in Manhattan, said the best thing about online shopping is its convenience. He says online customer service has been improving, especially when it comes to returns. 
Convenience and low prices may mean little, however, if shipping costs are high. Many online merchants have reduced or waived shipping fees to keep customers from going offline. Amazon.com led the way last summer by reducing the minimum purchase for free shipping to $49 from $99. It later lowered it again, to $25 for certain products. Buy.com offers free shipping with no minimum. BarnesandNoble.com has free shipping with the purchase of two products going to the same location. Target.com has free shipping on its "Gifts from 1 to 92" promotion. And from Tuesday through Dec. 21, Macys.com will offer free shipping for a specific category of gifts each day, like fragrances or cookware.
The Internet also helps people to research and compare prices. Studies show that more than 80 percent of consumers online are using the Internet for that purpose. 
Although the gap between online and offline prices is narrowing, it may still be worth checking the Internet first. Savings on big-ticket products, which can be easily identified through comparison shopping sites, can be extreme. Jeffrey O'Brien, a senior editor at Wired magazine, cited a Pioneer 50-inch plasma television, which, according to PriceGrabber.com, was being sold at prices ranging from $7,029, with about $200 for shipping, to more than $13,000.
Sometimes, retailers offer a better price online than in their stores. For example, a traditional Barnes & Noble store in Los Angeles was selling the DVD boxed set of "Band of Brothers" the weekend before Thanksgiving for $119.95, while the online store was selling it for $71.99, plus about $4 in shipping charges. A quick check of BizRate listed online prices of $72.95 to $98.65, including tax and shipping.
At BlueFly.com, an Autumn Cashmere V-neck sweater was selling for $79.95, about $160 below its price in an upscale department store. Armani five-pocket jeans were selling for $59.95, about $60 below the manufacturer's suggested retail price, and a Prada messenger bag with a manufacturer's suggested retail price of $550 was selling for $299. Shipping is set at $5.95 an order.
THE products are all first quality, said Ken Seiff, chief executive of BlueFly. But he said they are available typically six to eight weeks after retailers like Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue have them in stock. 
Liquidation sites like Overstock and SmartBargains are heavily discounting products like down comforters, DVD players, Burberry scarves and Nicole Miller jackets. 
Because of the bounty of deals to consider, shoppers should look beyond price, said Chuck Davis, president and chief executive of BizRate.com.
Three years ago, consumers could generally sort out reputable Internet retailers simply by how they operated, Mr. Davis said. Hard-to-use sites that were slow to provide information often meant poor service, he added. But these days, it is easy to make a site look great and work fast.
"There are thousands of merchants, and in a bumpy economy they are fighting for consumers more than ever," he said. "The key is to find a good deal and make sure it's a good merchant."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with an article about discounts in holiday shopping online misstated the surname of the associate manager of the photo studio at BlueFly.com, a shopping site. She is Jennifer Paolucci, not Nevins.
The caption also misidentified the second woman in the picture. She was Stephanie Schniebolk, BlueFly's director of production, not Concepcion Fernandez, a photographer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Nevins, left, associate manager of the Photo Studio, and Concepcion Fernandez, a photographer, prepared for a photo shoot in New York for BlueFly.com, an online store. Sales by online retailers nationwide surged over Thanksgiving weekend. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (94%); RETAILERS (93%); SALES PROMOTIONS (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); SALES & SELLING (72%); WEB SITES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING; SALES 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (84%) UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



228 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Colin C. Ferenbach; 
Tocqueville Alexis Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
SINCE 1984, Colin C. Ferenbach has been shepherding a pool of money that is now known as the Tocqueville Alexis mutual fund.
 The $70 million fund takes its name from Alexis de Tocqueville, the Frenchman who wrote "Democracy in America" early in the 19th century. "People have told me that the fund's name sounds like his listing in the telephone directory," Mr. Ferenbach said. 
 In its earliest form, the fund was a private investment partnership for partners of Goldman Sachs, the New York investment bank.
In 1994, the partnership was converted into the Haven mutual fund, named for Haven Capital Management, where Mr. Ferenbach was a managing director.
In January 2002, Mr. Ferenbach became a managing director at Tocqueville Asset Management in New York City, and the fund followed him. The firm says it takes a contrarian approach inspired by the trenchant analysis of its namesake. The fund adopted its current name in February, when trustees voted to transfer the management contract to Tocqueville.
"Such amicable partings are rare in the mutual fund industry," said Russel Kinnel, director of fund analysis at Morningstar Inc. 
The fund returned 1.2 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with a decline of 2.4 percent, on average, for its group of midcap blend funds, which own a mix of growth and value stocks, according to Morningstar. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 13 percent a year over that period.
The fund lost 8.4 percent in the last 12 months, versus declines of 15.1 percent for its group and 21.3 percent for the S.& P. 500.
Mr. Ferenbach, 68, also manages about $270 million for private clients.
He describes his investment philosophy as seeking "growth stocks on sale" and says he finds a silver lining in bear markets "because we can make wonderful purchases and hold on." He has owned the fund's top two holdings, General Growth Properties and Johnson & Johnson, since the 1994 market decline. He bought shares of General Growth, a real estate investment trust, at $19.26 a share; they now trade at $50.35. He bought Johnson & Johnson at $9.26; it is now $55.27.
Mr. Ferenbach looks for stocks among companies of all sizes. He tends to find growth among midsize companies; the average market capitalization for the portfolio companies is $8.9 billion, compared with $16.9 billion for the S.& P. 500.
Working with six other portfolio managers and six analysts, he seeks companies that have unit growth in sales, generated by strong demand for the companies' products or services, he said.
He also studies companies when their stock prices hit 12-month lows. "When a stock is trashed, we investigate," he said. "Has management changed? Its business? The economy? If not, we're even more interested, and we dig deeper."
He wants companies with strong balance sheets, high levels of cash flow and return on equity, and manageable levels of debt.
In October, he began buying shares of Bank of New York, which had declined sharply because of credit worries, he said. The bank has loans outstanding to cable companies, particularly to Adelphia Communications, which has filed for bankruptcy protection, and to some telecommunications companies. He said that the market has overreacted to these problems.
Trusts and security processing account for more than half of the business of Bank of New York, he added, so it is less vulnerable to sharp declines in interest rates than many other banks. Wall Street analysts estimate its average annual earnings growth at 13 percent in the next five years.
The bank's shares traded at more than $50 in 2001, but the fund paid $26.38, on average; the stock is now at $27.48. 
In mid-November, Mr. Ferenbach bought shares of the St. Paul Companies, the insurer. Casualty insurance is a cyclical business, Mr. Ferenbach said. "I think we're in the upswing of the cycle," he said, "which will last for several years."
Wall Street analysts project that St. Paul Companies' earnings growth will average 10 percent a year during the next five years. He paid $33.18, on average, for the shares, and they closed on Friday at $35.29.
Demand for cellphones is helping Nokia of Finland, another holding, solidify its competitive position, Mr. Ferenbach said. "They've virtually crushed Ericsson," he said, "and they've made life very unpleasant for Motorola." 
Nokia also has much cash on its balance sheet, he said. "When it comes to innovation, you don't want to sell Nokia short, based on its history," he said.
In November, the fund bought American depository receipts of Nokia at $17.94; they are now at $19.34.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager Colin C. Ferenbach describes his investment objective as finding "growth stocks on sale." (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) Chart: "Tocqueville Alexis"Category: Midcap blendNet assets: $70 millionInception: June 1984Manager: Colin C. Ferenbach since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,500 ($2,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 60%3-year annualized returnthrough Thursday: + 1.2%Category average: - 2.4% Category breakdownOther: 46%Oil: 10%Insurance: 10%Banks: 13%Information technology: 11%Drug/hospital supplies: 10% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.19%Expense ratio: 1.22% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BONDS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (75%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (64%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: TOCQUEVILLE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MORN (NASDAQ) (82%); JNJ (NYSE) (64%); GGP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (64%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (52%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; FERENBACH, COLIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



229 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: Cheap Seats at Shea 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Pricing the Ballgame" (Op-Ed, Dec. 4):
 While the economist Robert H. Frank feels that the New York Mets' move to variable pricing is logical, my only question would be, Did they also lower concession prices the equivalent amount for less popular games? 
 Sure, an $8 admission sounds enticing, but $5 hot dogs sure don't. 
Maybe fans are sick and tired of getting gouged to support overpaid athletes. It's easier to watch at home and serve your own food.

JONATHAN PORCELLI
Brooklyn, Dec. 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) BASEBALL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%) NEW YORK METS 

PERSON: PORCELLI, JONATHAN; FRANK, ROBERT H 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



230 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
How Dell Is Defying an Industry's Gravity in Japan

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
IT was perhaps the biggest non-event in the history of Dell Computer. Hiroshi Hamada, the head of Dell's consumer computer sales unit in Japan, designed a Web site to supplement the company's fledgling telephone sales here. It was 1997, after all, and the Internet was fast becoming a viable sales channel in the United States.
 Japan, though, was a different story. Computer use and familiarity with the Internet were still low and, the stereotypical thinking went, the Japanese preferred to pay in cash for products they could haul away. Besides, the local giants -- NEC, Fujitsu and Toshiba -- still controlled the greatest share of Japan's $20 billion computer market. Even in Dell's small Japan office, skeptics thought that a Web site was an adornment, not a big driver of growth. 
 To almost everyone's surprise, Mr. Hamada's little project turned into a tsunami. With little advertising, 35 people ordered computers the first day, three times more than he had expected. In six months, customers were buying $500,000 of equipment a day on the site. Today, Dell books 80 percent of its consumer sales in Japan online, the highest rate of any country in which it operates. 
"People said it would be nice to have a Web site to talk about the company's strategy, but no one believed Japan's conservative consumers would buy online," said Mr. Hamada, who is now Dell's president in Japan and South Korea. "Quite frankly, I didn't think we would grow this much. Now, we want to be No. 3 next year."
Dell's rapid rise in Japan -- it overtook I.B.M. this year and is now fifth in Japan's crowded market with a share of 7.7 percent -- is part of the company's strategy to complement its American sales by expanding into Asia, where consumers are still becoming accustomed to PC's in the home. Growth in Asia, half of it from Japan, is helping Dell blunt the impact of the global slump in its industry. Last year, overall personal computer sales fell for the first time in a generation, yet Dell's profit grew 31 percent in the third quarter, to $561 million, on a 22 percent increase in sales, to $9.14 billion. Part of the reason was a strong performance in Asia.
Dell's sales in Asia will surpass those in Europe by 2003, the company figures, and Asia will be the biggest region for Dell outside the United States by 2005.
DELL'S growth in Japan is surprising, given the long slump in the economy here. Sales growth and profit margins in Japan are on par with the company over all. And Dell has more room to grow here: Japan ranks 20th worldwide in personal computers per 100 people, at 31.5; the United States is first, at 58.5, according to the Economist's World in Figures reference book.
Dell's success is a warning for Japan's lumbering computer makers, which have long operated in a sheltered market. NEC, Fujitsu and Toshiba, as well as I.B.M. and Apple Computer, have lost ground to Dell and Sony, which entered the market five years ago with its Vaio computers. NEC, which once owned more than half Japan's computer market, now controls 21 percent, about the same as Fujitsu.
While Sony is chewing into the high-end PC market, Dell has done well with cost-conscious consumers and small businesses that want durable computers at low prices. For years, companies were encouraged to buy computers that used proprietary software. But as Microsoft and Intel helped make computers largely indistinguishable, Japan's makers lost ground and money.
Shackled with dense wholesale and retail networks and unwilling to outsource production en masse, many of Japan's big electronics makers have struggled because of a price war that has intensified in recent years. Now Dell has hurt them even more. By producing its computers in China and selling them directly to consumers by phone and over the Internet, it has undercut competitors by about 30 percent, forcing others to sell products at a loss.
"A number of companies in this industry continue to operate with no profits," said Michael Dell, chairman and chief executive of Dell, who visited Japan in October. "It's not what we consider a rational strategy."
Dell has also overcome another longstanding stereotype in Japan: that foreigners cannot match Japanese companies' quality of service. Instead of outsourcing its call centers, as many Japanese rivals do, Dell employs several hundred full-time operators in Japan. As it does elsewhere in the world, Dell uses tailored software to track buying habits and consumer preferences. Its customer support was ranked the best in Japan this year by Nikkei PC, an industry magazine.
The company's advertising in Japan is straightforward -- nothing like its "Dell dude" surfer pitchman commercials in the United States, which have developed something of a cult following. (Dell recently used a television ad here in which an attractive young woman orders a computer on her cordless phone from a Dell phone operator, gives a contented smile and gazes at a sunny skyline from her balcony.)
Dell has made some concessions to the Japanese way of doing business, thanks partly to Mr. Hamada, who first worked with Dell a decade ago when he was a consultant in the Bay Area, helping American companies expand to Japan. In the mid-1990's, when Dell was still a minor player in Japan, he rented hotel banquet rooms and invited hundreds of people to hands-on computer demonstrations. In addition to building a brand name, Dell allowed Japan's notoriously fastidious customers to try its machines. Many placed orders on the spot.
After Mr. Hamada's experiments, Reini Mizushima, a manager in Dell's Home System department for Japan, institutionalized the trade-fair concept by installing 34 kiosks in leading electronics shops around the country, allowing shoppers to test computers, ask questions of the staff and make purchases. The stands require no inventory and can be moved easily.
Instead of cannibalizing Dell's phone business, as some people at Dell had feared, the kiosks have attracted new customers. Now, half the sales at the stands are to people who did not know Dell before they arrived.
"I check the information on the Net and come to the shop because my office is close," said Junko Koike, 38, an office worker who stopped at Dell's kiosk at an electronics store in central Tokyo. "The prices are low, and they give us good support."
The kiosks have proved so popular that more than 70 have sprouted in the United States; there are also plans to introduce them in Europe and in other parts of Asia. "One of the fun things is to go through the list of ideas that people said wouldn't work," said John Hamlin, Dell's vice president for United States consumer sales. Mr. Hamlin readily imported the kiosk idea to America.
He had good reason. From 1998 to 2000, he worked with Mr. Hamada in Japan. The men, who share steaks and beers when they meet at the company's headquarters in Austin, Tex., focused on small-business owners in Japan who valued speed, flexibility and low cost. More than three-quarters of the 650,000 computers that Dell sold in Japan last year were to corporate customers, the majority of them small businesses.
Dell's biggest rivals, though, are fighting back. NEC has shifted most production to China and turned its last remaining computer assembly plant in Japan into a build-to-order operation. NEC hired i2 Technologies, the American supply chain management specialists, which helped reduce inventories by half and cut to one week the time needed to make and deliver a computer. Capacity at this NEC plant, in Yonezawa, two hours north of Tokyo by bullet train, has quadrupled since 2000.
"We have to win in our fight to cut costs or we won't survive," said Norio Ikeda, senior vice president for sales and marketing at NEC CustomTechnica, as he surveyed groups of six workers standing in pods putting together La Vie and ValueStar computers. "Only the top five computer assembly makers can turn a profit" in Japan.
THE PC business at NEC is still not profitable, though analysts expect that to change when the company completes its planned innovations next year. But slimmer production is only part of the problem. The company, like its competitors, employs huge sales subsidiaries that fight for retail space in Japan's crowded shops, so store sales of computers hardly cover NEC's costs. Online orders are still just 10 percent of total sales.
NEC's bread and butter, though, is its large corporate accounts. The company, along with its competitors, operates subsidiaries that can offer discounted hardware or other options in return for long-term deals.
"For domestic companies that have service contracts with NEC or Fujitsu, there's no reason to buy PC's from Dell," said Yoshiharu Izumi, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities in Tokyo.
Most analysts, though, say Japan's market is still too crowded for everyone to make money. While NEC, Fujitsu and Hitachi battle for corporate clients, Sony, Matsushita, Sharp and others fight for consumers. No one, it seems, is willing to leave the market -- regardless of how unprofitable -- for fear of losing access to technology that complements their other businesses. "Japanese computer makers," says Satoru Oyama, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, "are run by engineers, not accountants."
This plays to Dell's strengths as a leaner organization that focuses on the bottom line. The question is when, or if, Japan's biggest makers will learn the same lesson.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference in Tokyo in October, Michael Dell, chief of Dell Computer, was sanguine about the company's performance. (Bloomberg News) Chart: "Climbing in Japan"Dell Computer has overtaken I.B.M. as the best-selling American PC maker in Japan. It hopes to surpass Sony as No. 3 by next year. Graph shows the number of Dell's PC shipments to Japan from 1999 to 2002*. Figures are for fiscal years in Japan, which runs from April through March Graph shows the PC shipment market share in Japan for the following companies, from 1999 to 2002*: NECFUJITSUI.B.M.TOSHIBASONYDELL *First six months (Source: Multimedia Research Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SALES 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (90%); FUJITSU LTD (59%)

ORGANIZATION: DELL COMPUTER CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP 

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (90%); 6502 (TSE) (90%); FUJ (LSE) (59%); 6702 (TSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (59%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (58%) BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



231 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF; 
Warmth, Power, Blood and Smoke

BYLINE:  By ALISON LEIGH COWAN 

 BODY:
THIS summer, Americans were moved by the bravery of nine men trapped in a watery coal mine and the rescuers who finally freed them. Their ordeal was a fresh reminder of the price that some people pay for our collective dependence on coal. 
 A new book, "Coal: A Human History" (Perseus Publishing; $25), due in stores next month, aims to further raise awareness of this dependence. 
 The book looks at how coal transformed England and then the United States into an industrial superpower and how coal is reshaping developing giants like China.
"The industrial age emerged literally in a haze of coal smoke," writes the author, Barbara Freese, "and in that smoke we can read much of the history of the modern world." 
The author has clearly culled many diverse historical sources and is able to draw intriguing links in disparate historical events. For instance, she argues that Henry VIII indirectly assisted England's nascent coal industry in the mid-1500's. After breaking with the Roman Catholic Church over marital problems, he seized coal fields owned by the church and sold them to local merchants, who made the kinds of productivity-enhancing investments that the church had shunned. Newcastle has never been the same.
But some of her most sweeping conclusions are subject to challenge. For instance, trying to imagine a world without coal, she asserts that "The Manifesto of the Communist Party," the 1848 document partly inspired by the plight of Manchester's working class, "would never have been written." She also conjectures that the North might have lost the Civil War, and that both World Wars might have been averted "without the industrial rise of coal-rich Germany." 
"In short," she writes, "none of the defining and epic struggles of the 19th and 20th centuries would have played out as they did."
What results is a somewhat inflated view of coal's influence, good and bad, on civilization as we know it. 
This is Ms. Freese's first book, and she does her best to enliven a protagonist that literally sits there like a lump. We learn that the Chinese had to convince local residents that coal mines would not disturb the area's feng shui. We learn how British miners tried illuminating the tunnels with phosphorous fish, a short-lived experiment. And we learn how the 300 citizens of Arcola, Ill., handled a coal shortage in 1902 by "politely mugging" a coal train. A bank president who participated in the raid, she writes, "kept a careful accounting of the amount taken by each person so that payment could later be made."
Readers might be just as curious to know more about why the author interrupted a legal career to take up the pen. She mentions that she was an assistant attorney general in Minnesota who helped regulate coal-burning industries. Her opponents at one point advanced the novel argument that global warming might not be bad for a cold state like Minnesota, she recalls.
After that experience, she writes, "I was left not only deeply concerned about the changing climate but thoroughly intrigued by the lump of carbon at the center of the storm."
So is this book a bit of unfinished business, a dire warning on global warming? Or a simple scholarly treatise?
It appears to be a bit of both. Critical enough to merit applause that may come from environmentalists, and scholarly enough to make you feel that you deserve college credit for reading it. 
If Ms. Freese is a critic of coal, she also seems to be an admirer. "Coal was no mere fuel, and no mere article of commerce," she writes. "It represented humanity's triumph over nature -- the foundation of civilization itself." 
Elsewhere, she writes, "If coal were not so plentiful, one could imagine it lovingly displayed in museums, placed next to the (generally much younger) dinosaur bones rather than being burned by the trainload." 
Readers may chuckle at the book's recounting of how societies that embraced coal dealt with issues that still vex us. For instance, Ms. Freese documents how British rulers as far back as 1285 were just as quick as politicians today to create commissions to study, rather than eliminate, coal emissions.
When English nobles visiting London in 1306 complained about the "obnoxious odor" after blacksmiths and other artisans had switched from wood to coal, King Edward I banned its use, the author writes. First offenders faced fines and second offenders "were to have their furnaces smashed."
As it turned out, she writes, neither studies nor sanctions proved as effective as bubonic plague in 1347, which ravaged Europe's population for more than a century.
That set back coal dealers and allowed forests to replenish. But over time, coal's ability to deliver a reliable fire at an affordable price was unstoppable. And once chimneys became a fixture in the English home by the early 1600's, home use soared and air quality deteriorated.
By the 1700's, she writes, Britain was probably mining five times more coal than the rest of the world combined, and Londoners "took to carrying defensive black umbrellas" to protect themselves against the soot that soiled their clothes whenever it rained. 
Of course, the people who extracted the coal paid a bigger price. Mine explosions became so common, she writes, that mine owners appealed to newspapers to refrain from covering them, and she offers evidence that newspapers like The Newcastle Journal complied. 
On this side of the Atlantic, coal was slower to take hold. Blessed with lush forests that supplied huge amounts of firewood, Americans had less incentive to search for coal. But eventually, of course, they, too, harnessed coal's economic powers and reaped huge benefits from two inventions originally developed for the coal industry. The first was the steam engine, which revolutionized factories all over the United States. The second was the locomotive, which was soon hauling people and goods coast to coast.
By the late 1890's, the United States overtook Britain as the largest coal producer and inherited some of Britain's labor problems along with the title.
Ms. Freese relates the story of Franklin B. Gowen, a larger-than-life Pennsylvania industrialist, who relished crushing any attempt by the miners to unionize. In 1875, he had suspected sympathizers rounded up by the Coal and Iron Police, a private security force he controlled that was "the main law enforcement agency in the region," according to the book. He personally led the prosecution of five suspects and supported the prosecution of 20 others who were hanged. 
MS. FREESE does a first-rate job mining history texts for just such nuggets. But the book would have benefited greatly from more contemporary stories, as well -- interviews say, with some of the people who still make their living in the coal mines of Pennsylvania and from representatives of the forces arrayed against them.
The closest she comes to bringing us voices from the present are the tales she includes about visiting her local power plant and bicycling across Beijing, where coal pollution left her lungs "stinging for hours." 
While the author may feel that she has made her case that coal extracts an intolerably high price, she glosses over what kind of future we might expect from alternatives like oil, especially in a world where so much oil is controlled by countries that don't share our interests. It is not until four-fifths through the book that she identifies one big plus in coal's favor by noting that it is "a reliable source of domestic energy." 
Surely, with the nation on the brink of war, that issue has to be part of the debate.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); WRITERS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); HISTORY (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); LITERATURE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); TRAINS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH; FREESE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); GERMANY (70%)

TITLE: COAL: A HUMAN HISTORY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



232 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2161 words

HEADLINE: The Days of Coasting Are Gone$ %; 
Airlines Face Reality. It's Time for a New Flight Plan.

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT and ALEX MARKELS 

 BODY:
WHO changed the economics of the airline industry, killing its main business model and leaving so many carriers in debt and in disarray? Look to the vanishing business executive and a gang of orange and red jets.
 With airline losses likely to exceed $9 billion this year and with the looming bankruptcy of United Airlines, the search for a new industry model has gained speed. Airline management is likely to undertake its most serious battle in years with organized labor. Industry giants like United will try to become more like their nimble low-fare rivals, scheduling their flights more efficiently even if it means less convenience for their customers. Passengers, though faced with few immediate changes, may soon be forced to acknowledge the gap between the level of service they want and the one they are willing to pay for. 
 The reckoning has begun.
The path to this overhaul winds all the way back to the deregulation of the industry in 1978, when airlines won the right to compete with one another on price. But the inevitable was delayed by the fitful growth of start-up carriers and the willingness of corporate America during the 1990's bubble to pay almost any price for a seat. 
These days, those spendthrift executives have vanished, thanks to corporate cost-cutting and the complications of travel after the terrorist attacks last year. And the orange and red Boeing 737's of Southwest Airlines have spread to almost every part of the country, bringing price competition to many routes that full-fare carriers once dominated. Imitators of Southwest, like JetBlue Airways, based in New York, have added to the established airlines' troubles.
"Airlines have steadfastly resisted abandoning their business model, and they're still drowning in a pool of red ink," said Bob Harrell, a travel consultant in New York. Finally, he said, "they have concluded that doing nothing is no longer an option."
Even an unexpectedly fast economic rebound, and the new corporate spending it would bring, are unlikely to restore the industry's old profits. With the rise of the Internet, vacationers and road warriors are on a nearly equal technological footing with the industry itself, and passengers can save hundreds of dollars merely by making minor changes in their travel plans.
These pressures will force United -- which is expected to file for bankruptcy protection as early as this weekend -- and other big airlines to look for cost savings above all else, executives and analysts say. As if that were not hard enough, the big airlines will need to reduce expenses even as they are cutting last-minute fares -- as some have begun to do in recent weeks -- to win back business travelers from discount carriers.
Without business travelers to foot the bill, the extensive networks of frequent flights that the airlines have built up over the last decade will probably shrink. More passengers may be left with a choice between the convenience of a nearby airport, say, and the savings made possible by bare-bones efficiency.
"The public is not willing to support the levels of airline service that we've had in the past," said Alfred E. Kahn, an economist who oversaw much of the industry's deregulation as a government official in the 1970's. "Airlines are going to have to shrink their operations in some way."
WHAT seems clear. US Airways filed for bankruptcy in August. American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and almost all the other large carriers, except Southwest, continue to lose money, as they have for almost two years.
Many industry executives say a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing by United, which was pushed to the brink last week when the federal government rejected its plea for $1.8 billion in loan guarantees, will give it leverage over its unions that it has not had in years. Government officials called United's problems too deep to be solved by a cash infusion.
"You have powers in a Chapter 11 world you don't have when you're outside," said Douglas M. Steenland, the president of Northwest Airlines. "You can avoid paying debt, reject leases on airplanes and get collective bargaining agreements restructured."
With the ability to renegotiate labor contracts based on the industry's new realities, rather than those of the late 90's, United could try to fulfill airline executives' longtime dream of cutting the high wages of pilots and some other employees.
"It could create a ripple effect," said Jim Corridore, an analyst at Standard & Poor's. "They'll have a huge competitive advantage over AMR and Delta, who might have to do the same thing -- file for Chapter 11 -- to get an advantage. It's in the realm of reality."
Although executives at American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, say they have no plans to file for bankruptcy, they say they will ask their workers to accept a pay cut if United's workers accept one.
Airline unions still have significant power -- because of their long history of success and the fact that many airline workers are hard to replace -- and they will fight attempts to cut salaries. Faced with a shrinking industry and little ability to find new jobs at similar pay, however, workers may show less resolve than they have in the past.
While union concessions would put the industry on firmer financial footing, they might also create problems of their own. The concessions would be yet another force weakening the job market, which shows little sign of recovering from the recession last year. Falling wages and disappearing jobs could also create morale problems in an industry in which small errors can produce tragedy.
But all the turmoil also creates an opportunity for airlines, travel experts say.
Even as the price to fly a mile has fallen roughly in half, adjusted for inflation, since deregulation, and even as airlines have built an impressive safety record, travelers have grown frustrated with the irritations of the industry. Pilots and gate agents often underestimate delays when speaking to passengers. Planes sometimes land on time only to sit idle on runways waiting for empty gates. Frequent-flier award tickets to Hawaii or Europe must sometimes be reserved almost a year in advance.
Discounters like Southwest and JetBlue, however, have generally avoided travelers' anger -- and won their loyalty -- by clearly explaining what their airlines offer and what they do not. As United and others rethink their own ambitions, they have a chance to offer the public a similarly realistic picture of their business.
"When you fly a well-run low-cost airline," said Robert C. Yeager, an international relations consultant based in Oakland who flew to New York on JetBlue last week, "you really realize what United is trying to fight."
In recent weeks, American, Continental Airlines and Delta have taken a significant step toward revving up business by lowering some full fares. In the short run, analysts say, the moves may worsen the airlines' plight by further draining their revenue from business travelers. But the lower fares will succeed if they eventually wean some travelers from advance-purchase tickets and woo them from discount airlines.
"They have to change their fare structure," said Hal F. Rosenbluth, the chairman of Rosenbluth International, a large travel agency based in Philadelphia. "They're all losing money."
In its experiment, American has already cut fares on about 25 routes, including Dallas-Los Angeles, Dallas-Cleveland, New York-Albuquerque and Baltimore-Kansas City. Southwest serves many of the cities on American's list.
In some markets in the airlines' experiments, last-minute fares have fallen by about one-third. Even though air travel has fallen sharply since the terrorist attacks last year, these reductions are among the first moves to lower business fares officially, rather than by offering bulk discounts to companies.
"The days of the $3,000 walk-up fare from New York to L.A. are over," said Holly Hegeman, an aviation industry analyst at PlaneBusiness.com in Covington, La.
Of course, relatively few people buy full-fare tickets. The more important changes will probably occur at the price levels between expensive last-minute fares and cheaper advance-purchase fares.
At those levels, airlines are likely to reduce prices and impose stricter rules. A traveler will sometimes receive a discount for buying a ticket at least 10 days in advance, even if the trip does not include a Saturday night, but the traveler will be punished for failing to stick to that schedule.
Starting on Oct. 1, many airlines made so-called nonrefundable tickets true to the term. If travelers miss a flight without rescheduling it -- and paying a penalty -- on the same day, they often lose the entire value of the ticket. On Jan. 1, passengers who want to take a different flight on the same day as their original trip will sometimes have to pay $100, Rosenbluth International said. 
In effect, the industry is offering business travelers a compromise. Airlines will stop charging so much for last-minute tickets, but they will no longer allow passengers to buy inexpensive tickets and then change itineraries.
Leisure travelers are unlikely to benefit from the changes. In recent years, whatever complaints they may have had, travelers have often received the comforts and flight schedules of full-fare service while paying discount prices as the major airlines have tried to match the discounters.
With fewer business travelers on board, airlines have already eliminated some flights and plan to cancel more. To satisfy its creditors, United is likely to make the deepest and quickest cuts. J .P. Morgan Chase predicts that United's capacity will shrink 10 to 12 percent next year.
That will not be enough to solve the industry's problems, though, executives say.
"We need a system where you can go from anywhere to anywhere with just one stop," said David Neeleman, president of JetBlue. "But do we need 10 different hubs with six different airlines to do that? I don't think so."
Gordon M. Bethune, chief executive of Continental, said he thought that a 15 percent cut in flights across the nation's air system would allow airlines to become profitable.
Most analysts do not expect airlines to abandon their hub-and-spoke systems, which allow them to route passengers from smaller cities through a few big airports. But American has begun to tinker with a "rolling hub" operation, which is a step closer to Southwest's system of keeping planes on the ground for as little time as possible, rather than scheduling flights to meet consumers' convenience. 
By spreading flights more evenly throughout a day, Southwest and other discounters need fewer workers to service each plane and can charge less for tickets. For that reason, among others, Southwest needed to spend less than 8 cents for every mile that one of its seats flew last year. At all of the full-fare carriers, per-seat costs exceeded 10 cents, according to Back Aviation Solutions, a research company based in New Haven. 
The discounters do require longer waits between connecting flights, on average, but travelers have generally accepted the trade-off, helping Southwest and others to increase their market share.
As Ron Kuhlmann, vice president of Unisys R2A, a transportation consulting firm in Hayward, Calif., said, "If it's 20 minutes longer, nobody cares."
STILL, the market for better, more expensive service will almost certainly not disappear. For United, American and others whose costs will remain higher than Southwest's, the key to profitability will depend largely on their ability to persuade passengers that their service is worth the premium price.
Continental, itself a survivor of multiple bankruptcies, offers some reason for hope. After suffering from some of the industry's worst labor relations and nearly folding, the airline has rebuilt itself in recent years as the favored carrier of many frequent travelers by adopting the most lenient rules for first-class upgrades.
The company loses revenue by selling fewer first-class seats and leaving them open for upgrades. But it has won the loyalty of many travelers, and its revenue has declined less during the last two years than that of most rivals.
"They had to have a gimmick, and it served them well," said Randy Petersen, publisher of InsideFlyer, a magazine specializing in travel loyalty programs. "Continental would probably not be in existence but for the frequent-flier program."
That example is not a wholly reassuring one for executives at United or US Airways. Continental is still losing millions of dollars today, suggesting that the tinkering of the recent past may not be enough to solve the industry's current problems.
"No one's ever made a lot of money in this business," said Mr. Neeleman of JetBlue. "People think you can't be both efficient and take care of your customers, but that's what you have to do to be successful now." As the large airlines can now see, the rivals that are doing that are not only surviving, but are also making money.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Commercial jets sat idle at the Mojave Airport in Mojave, Calif. Airlines have deeply cut flying capacity as losses this year may exceed $9 billion. (Associated Press, 2001)(pg. 12); (Reuters)(pg. 1) Chart/Map: "Discount Airlines Have Grown"Many more cities now have low-fare alternatives to the traditional airlines. Map of the United States shows the cities now that have low-fare alternatives to the traditional airlines compared to 1997. AIRTRAN AIRWAYSAMERICAN TRANS AIR*FRONTIER+JETBLUESOUTHWEST AIRLINESSPIRIT$S *Also had flights to two Hawaiian and four Mexican and Caribbean destinations in 1997 and currently flies to three additional destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean. Flights to Nassau in the Bahamas have been discontinued. +Plans service to Cancun and Mazatlan in Mexico later this month. $SAlso currently flies to San Juan, Puerto Rico. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (91%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (91%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID; MARKELS, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); PUERTO RICO (79%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



233 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Pastoral Poverty; 
The Seeds of Decline

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

 BODY:
LOUP COUNTY, Neb., the poorest county in the nation, is down to 712 people -- a third of the population it had nearly a century ago. A four-bedroom house goes for $30,000. But building a life is much harder. In Loup County, what rides on the unrelenting winds are symptoms of despair that have taken hold there and across a large swath of rural America. 
 It could be Chemung County in upstate New York, which lost people and jobs even in the boom of the 90's. Or Bighorn County, Wyo., where some high school seniors say their only choices are to move out of town or take up with people cooking methamphetamine in a rusty sink. Or Dalhart, Tex., a Panhandle town of 7,000 people where the murder rate last year was more than twice the national average. 
 Around the country, rural ghettos are unravelling in the same way that inner cities did in the 1960's and 70's, according to the officials and experts who have tried to make sense of a generations-old downward spiral in the countryside. In this view, decades of economic decline have produced a culture of dependency, with empty counties hooked on farm subsidies just as welfare mothers were said to be tied to their monthly checks. And just as in the cities, the hollowed-out economy has led to a frightening rise in crime and drug abuse. 
But unlike the cities' troubles, which generated a national debate about causes and solutions, the rural collapse has been largely silent, perhaps because it happened so slowly. 
Crime, fueled by a methamphetamine epidemic that has turned fertilizer into a drug lab component and given some sparsely populated counties higher murder rates than New York City, has so strained small-town police budgets that many are begging the federal government for help. The rate of serious crime in Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma and Utah is as much as 50 percent higher than the state of New York, the F.B.I. reported in October. 
Towns of 10,000 and 25,000 people are now the most likely places to experience a bank robbery. Drug-related homicides fell by 50 percent in urban areas, but they tripled over the last decade in the countryside.
"We have serious drug crime in places that never used to have it," said Allen Curtis, executive director of the Nebraska Crime Commission.
Poverty was held in place somewhat by the boom of the 1990's. Still, the 2000 census found that the percentage of people living below the poverty level is nearly 30 percent higher in rural areas than it is in cities. Of the 25 poorest counties in the nation, 5 are in Nebraska, 5 are in Texas and 4 are in South Dakota, the Commerce Department found. In Loup County, the dead center of Nebraska, per capita personal income is $6,606 per year, just 22 percent of the national average, according to a listing compiled by the Commerce Department. 
Equally telling is a growing wage gap that finds people who work in rural areas making just 70 percent of the average salaries of workers in urban areas. The cost of living, of course, is much lower outside the big cities. But workers in rural areas are 60 percent more likely to earn minimum wage than urban wage-earners.
No wonder then that the exodus from large parts of rural America is continuing, extending far beyond the long-suffering Great Plains. While the nation as a whole grew by 13 percent in the 2000 census, many counties in upstate New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Michigan and three Southern states, for example, lost 9 percent or more of their population during the 1990's.
THE pastoral farms of cider presses and pumpkin patches still exist, of course, but the ones that prosper are at suburban edges, or they are places with sublime scenery or an energetic college. Bonner County, Idaho, for example, grew by 38 percent in the last decade, hooking its fate to outdoor amenities and second homes for early-retiring baby boomers.
Though the politicians who inveighed against moral and economic decline in the big cities have yet to weigh in on rural breakdown, plenty of voices are sounding alarms from this Other America. 
Some say that entrepreneurship has been stifled by central government subsidies to agribusiness, while the real problems of rural America -- which have little to do with farm policy -- have been ignored.
"The slide is not inevitable," said Chuck Hassebrook, director of the Center for Rural Affairs in Walthill, Neb., a nonprofit group that studies trends in rural areas. "We give a lot of tax breaks and direct payments to big agriculture companies that don't do much for the local economy, but rarely do we give anything to the little guy trying to start a business and stay in town."
In Nebraska, nearly 70 percent of all farmers rely on government largess to stay in business. Yet the biggest economic collapse is happening in counties most tied to agriculture -- in spite of the subsidies.
Unaffected by the downward trends are cheap labs used to make methamphetamine, a synthetic form of speed that the White House calls the fastest-growing drug threat in America. 
Nationwide, meth use has nearly tripled since 1994, and there are now far more regular users of meth than crack, according to the annual survey of drug use done for the National Institute on Drug Abuse. 
In Wyoming, the least populated state, officials estimate that 1 out of every 100 people needs treatment for meth addiction. Users of meth tend to be white and rural. There were 300 times more seizures of meth labs in Iowa in 1999, for example, than in New York and New Jersey combined, the Drug Enforcement Agency found.
Like crack, meth drives up all the other problems in these communities. Meth users tend to be erratic, violent and in some cases, borderline psychotic -- especially when on a sleepless binge or "tweaking" episode. Small-fry dealers steal and war among one another. Users abandon families, lose jobs and batter spouses and loved ones.
"Meth seems to be everywhere in Nebraska right now," Mr. Curtis of the Nebraska Crime Commission said. "It's mostly Beavis and Butthead labs, with poor white kids making meth out of their cars."
WHETHER people would be less prone to using meth if there were more good-paying jobs in rural areas is an echo of an old question -- the one posed about crack and heroin use in gutted inner cities. But at least during the decline-of-cities phase, the topic was vigorously debated.
By contrast, the problems of rural America were not discussed much in the recent national election, even in South Dakota and Missouri, which had close Senate races. 
Instead, the issue was farm price supports. In South Dakota, which received $3.2 billion in farm subsidies over the last five years and stands to gain an even larger amount in the coming decade, candidates of both parties swore to uphold the status quo. Supporters of subsidies say they keep entire counties from going under and ensure a cheap and abundant food supply. 
But opponents say that the biggest checks go to large corporate farms and do little to stem rural decline. The farm bill signed in May by President Bush -- and backed by both parties -- will, over the next 10 years, distribute two-thirds of $125 billion in payments to the top 10 percent of farms, according to an analysis done by the Environmental Working Group, a conservation group.
These payments go to farm businesses that cannot make money in the global market without government help, or they are funneled to people who agree to take certain crops out of production. 
But farmers who are just getting by tend to be out of the subsidy loop. About 1.2 million of the nation's 2 million farms do less than $10,000 a year in annual sales, the Agriculture Department reports.
In any case, with barely 1 percent of Americans living on farms, most rural jobs are nonagricultural. About 25 percent of those jobs pay wages below the poverty level for a family of four, said Representative Eva Clayton, a Democrat of South Carolina who is retiring this year, and who served as chairwoman of the Congressional Rural Caucus.
Or, she said, more often the rural wage-earner makes a long commute to a minimum-wage job in the nearest regional hub city. 
There are some bright spots on the open map. In some regional hubs, like Fargo, N.D., wages and jobs have increased. Across the Midwest, a number of communities have attracted enough immigrants to show population growth. But these immigrants come to work at meatpacking plants or corporate hog farms. And recent studies have shown those jobs tend to drive out other people who might normally stay in an area for its quality of life.
Representative Tom Osborne, Republican of Nebraska, has been trying to get small "action" grants -- somewhat similar to the ones the big cities used to go after -- as a way to jump-start businesses in western Nebraska.
In desperation, other rural politicians are looking to an earlier model. 
TWO major homestead acts were largely responsible for people moving to some of least populated areas to begin with. Now comes the New Homestead Economic Opportunity Act, introduced by Senators Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, and Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska. The bill would forgive student loans and provide tax credit for home purchasers in depressed rural areas and small towns.
History has provided us a model to help the communities that are hurting in the heartland, Senator Dorgan said.
But history, at least since the end of the last homestead act around 1920, has also shown that people who live in depressed rural America have been going only one way -- out.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about rural poverty misidentified the home state of Representative Eva Clayton, who was chairwoman of the Congressional Rural Caucus. It is North Carolina, not South Carolina.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Like the view from an abandoned Nebraska farmhouse, rural life has become bleak. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 1); America's pastoral vistas are yielding to scenes of barrenness and desertion, as with this abandoned country store in Almeria, Neb. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times); A derelict church hollers a message of hope into the emptiness near Milford, Neb.; A 1998 meth lab seizure in Des Moines. (Associated Press)(pg. 3) Chart/Map: "Less Money"The number of states with a significant gap between rural and urban incomes . . . Map of the United States highlighting percent of income in rural areas and urban areas in 1990 and 2000 and change in income gap in rural and urban areas from 1990 through 2002. Rural America's Downward SpiralThe economic boom of the 1990's slowed the growth of poverty in Americas rural areas, but crime, drug use and joblessness continue to plague the countryside. Certainly, the cost of rural living is somewhat lower than city life, but per capita incomes in non-urban areas are often as much as 25 percent lower than they they are in metropolitan areas. Manufacture and use of methamphetamines is rampant. Above and below, a look at some of the problems facing rural America. More CrimeThe crime rates in highly urbanized states like New York and New Jersey . . .Number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants Chart shows number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants in New York and New Jersey. . . . are lower than in many the nations rural statesNumber of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants Chart shows number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants in Iowa, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Utah, and Wyoming. A Meth ProblemJust like crack in Americas inner cities, methamphetamine has become the scourge of rural areas. And the number of meth lab seizures in rural states dwarfs the number in more urban states. Chart shows number of Methamphetamine Lab seizures in New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Iowa, Oklahoma, and Kansas from 1997 through 2001. (Sources: Rural Policy Research Institute; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Drug Enforcement Agency)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (88%); MURDER (88%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); TRENDS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); METHAMPHETAMINE (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); CENSUS (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); POLICE FORCES (67%); FERTILIZERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BANK ROBBERY (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (55%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RURAL AREAS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; METHAMPHETAMINES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); UP WITH PEOPLE (56%)

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



234 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Members Only; 
Debating Which Private Clubs Are Acceptable. And Private.

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
THERE was a time not long ago when white American males of a certain class and self-image could repair to their oak-paneled redoubts in the company of other males like themselves to eat mediocre food, drink too much and hobnob, secure in the knowledge that few would question their right to belong to a private club that shut out everyone else.
 So much has changed since then that Augusta National Golf Club's current refusal to admit a female member seems like a throwback to some bygone era, back before other clubs threw in the towel. But the fact that the fight is still being fought is testimony to Americans' ambivalence about what kind of club they feel they can justify. 
 Somewhere between the extremes of the Ku Klux Klan and the high school philately society lie a plethora of country clubs, city clubs, athletic clubs, fraternal organizations, service clubs and more -- that vast profusion of associations hailed variously as a defining characteristic of American civic life and as an insidious and divisive force. 
The line between which clubs are acceptable and which are not has been a moving target, shifting over the past half-century in response to wave after wave of demographic, social and legal change -- the civil rights movement, feminism, equal opportunity laws, anti-discrimination laws.
"Certainly America has changed and the ideas that supported those clubs are at least under suspicion if not entirely thrown out," Nancy F. Cott, a professor of American history at Harvard, said of clubs like Augusta National. "However, a core issue that people have a right to choose their own associations in private is something that most Americans still support. And that is a paradox."
The argument over the right of clubs to discriminate pits two fundamental principles of freedom against each other: Privacy versus equality; freedom of association versus freedom of access. It pits the right of individuals to choose whom to fraternize with in private against the state's interest in preventing discrimination in the public realm. If there was a time earlier in the last century when American society seemed to endorse exclusion, the balance is now tipping toward access.
In a series of cases challenging the membership selection criteria of a wide range of clubs and associations over the past four decades, the Supreme Court has held that the Constitution protects two kinds of associations: private or intimate associations and so-called expressive associations, formed to put forth a principle or idea.
Clubs not distinctly private can be forced to admit groups they had excluded. In defining private, the courts have considered a range of factors, from the formality of the club's admissions procedures to whether it is member-owned. For example, the Supreme Court in 1988 upheld a New York law that said a club is not considered private if it had more than 400 members, provided regular meal service and regularly received fees from nonmembers, like guests.
"So if you are balancing the First Amendment rights of the club and the state's interest in equal rights of women," said Mary Anne Case, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School, "you have to look at things like how big is the club, how committed is it to a certain ideology and how thoroughly exclusion matters to the purposes of the club."
Referring to Augusta National, she said, "To be an expressive association, it would have to stand for something -- like no women, or male bonding -- which is something Augusta National has not been willing to say it is. And to be an intimate association, it would have to be smaller, more private and less willing to take money from and admit people who are not members."
While some states have laws that define private clubs as public accommodations, prohibiting them from using criteria like race or gender in member selection, Georgia is one of several states that do not have public accommodation statutes that apply to private clubs, said Andrew Fortin, vice president of legal and government relations for the National Club Association, a trade group. 
The original elite city clubs were a 19th-century import from Britain, where they had begun a century earlier as a retreat for upper-class men. These, in turn, gave rise to country clubs, as their members ventured out of burgeoning cities like New York, Boston and Chicago in the late 19th century and began buying up land for their own.
The development of country clubs paralleled the great wave of European immigration into American cities in the early 20th century, said Richard J. Moss, author of "Golf and the American Country Club." He argues that their founding members were trying to "re-establish the village" with its homogeneity and sense of control.
"The irony is, if they were trying to run away from immigrants, well, why did they then hire one to two thousand immigrant caddies to carry their bags?" he said.
Fraternal organizations, too, were experiencing a heyday. Between the Civil War and World War I, as many as half of all adult white men belonged to at least one fraternal group, like the Masons, according to Jason Kaufman, a Harvard sociologist and author of "For the Common Good? American Civic Life in the Golden Age of Fraternity."
Professor Kaufman argues that fraternal groups actually had a divisive effect on American society. Often organized along what he calls ethno-national and ethno-religious lines, they helped institutionalize ethnic identities, like Italian-American and Irish-American, that he says Americans now consider virtually primordial.
"Many of the things they stood for were antithetical to American ideals," said Professor Kaufman. "These groups excluded nonwhites. They excluded women. They often excluded non-Christians. They essentially promoted self-segregation."
BUT social and economic change began to reshape clubs even before courts got involved. The Depression hurt country clubs and some were forced to close in World War II. Then came anti-discrimination laws and the 1960's, as well as television and the proliferation of recreational opportunities said to have undercut civic involvement of all sorts.
Meanwhile, the courts have struggled to decide what is private. "The private and public sphere can't be neatly defined," said Michael J. Klarman, a professor at the University of Virginia Law School. "We just have kind of intuitions about where we draw the line."
Where the line should be drawn can depend on whom you ask. "Hanging out with the guys, or women, doesn't necessarily mean you have a malignant purpose," said Mr. Fortin. "Sometimes playing golf with the guys is just playing golf with the guys."
But Professor Case of Chicago said she had a hard time imagining an acceptable explanation for Augusta National's refusal to admit a female member. "I can't imagine a reason," she said, "that doesn't involve somehow girls having cooties."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Saturday night at the Century Club in New York City in 1894, from a painting by Cy Turner. The club admitted women in 1988. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOLF (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); TRENDS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (84%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (71%); HISTORY (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%) ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS; PRIVACY; DISCRIMINATION; GOLF; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: AUGUSTA NATIONAL GOLF CLUB 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



235 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Golden Accessories, for Less

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Gold has been a strong performer this year, trading consistently above $300 an ounce for the first time since 1997. But how will higher commo-dity prices affect consumers planning to pick up a gold bracelet or gold cufflinks as holiday gifts? 
 The World Gold Council says consumers need not worry. "Retailers have built their profit margins to absorb fluctuations in the price of gold," said Rick Bannerot, marketing manager for the council's office in New York. 
 In fact, the council says average retail prices for gold jewelry have been declining. Helping to keep prices in check are the large numbers of discount retailers and home-shopping networks that aggressively sell gold jewelry.
Gold jewelry sales reached $15.6 billion last year, up from $15.3 billion in 2000. KATHLEEN O'BRIEN

GRAPHIC: Chart: GOLD NEAR-MONTH CONTRACTGraph show the New York Commodity Exchange prices, monthly from 1993-2001. Graph shows the average price of gold jewelry from 1993-2001.BY TYPE OF JEWELRY (2001)Wedding ring: $145.80Chain: 106.62Earrings: 40.75 Graph shows the sales of alcoholic beverages (year-over-year change, weekly) from May 2002 through Nov. 3, 2002. Graph shows percentage change for new mortgage applications (year-over-year change, weekly) from June 2002-Nov. 2002. Graph shows the percentage change in consumer price index for food costs from Nov. 2001-Oct. 2002. Graph shows the number of personal bankruptcy filings (totals in thousands, weekly) from June 2002-Nov. 2002. Graph shows the amount of online sales (dollars in billions, weekly) from June 2002-Nov. 2002. Graph shows the hotel occupancy rates (four-week moving average, daily) for the following cities from June 2002 through Dec. 3, 2002: NEW YORKCHICAGOLOS ANGELES (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets contract prices ; World Gold Council retail prices ; Information Resources cookie, candy sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics food costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE JEWELRY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); JEWELRY (90%); JEWELRY STORES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (54%) GOLD; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); JEWELS AND JEWELRY 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) WORLD GOLD COUNCIL 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



236 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
The Natural Way to Get to Work in a Maritime Metropolis

BYLINE:  By ANDRES MARTINEZ 

 BODY:
There is something noble about my ferryboat, a Cape Cod whale-watching vessel pressed into service in the aftermath of Sept. 11, when the number of New Jersey commuters needing to get to work by boat doubled overnight. While my boat, the Adventurer, once frolicked in search of marine mammals up north, entertaining camera-toting tourists, it now endures the tightly choreographed drudgery of countless 10-minute Hudson crossings a day. 
 The fading whale logo on its hull and a brochure for Maine's Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary, still taped to a wall inside the cabin, are the only signs of the boat's hasty requisition by New York Waterway. That private ferry operator now reports more than 60,000 passenger trips a day. 
 With the loss of the World Trade Center's PATH train station, many commuters found themselves in a time warp, with the ferry becoming, once again, the only way to cross the river. The Federal Emergency Management Agency subsidizes their fare -- such are the times we live in.
Regional transportation planners should not view the growth in ferry traffic merely as a temporary remedy. Ferries -- especially smaller, faster vessels that run frequently -- can play an invaluable role in meeting some of the city's long-term transportation needs while easing congestion. 
That is true whether one talks of strengthening Lower Manhattan's links to New Jersey, making Long Island City in Queens more accessible, getting to the airport or giving commuters who live near the river on the Upper East Side an alternative to the dreaded Lexington Avenue subway line for getting to Wall Street.
The city is rediscovering its original transportation network, but not long ago, ferries seemed like largely a thing of the past. Certainly in 1989, when I met my wife on a Circle Line cruise around Manhattan during our law school orientation week, and then read Gibbons v. Ogden in Professor Louis Henkin's constitutional law class, I could never have imagined that I would come to rely on a ferry for my daily commute. 
Decided in 1824, Gibbons was one of those early landmark Supreme Court decisions establishing the power of the national government. Stirring principles, to be sure, but like many landmark cases, Gibbons involved what seemed a quaintly anachronistic set of facts by late 20th-century standards, namely, the proposition that steamboats and ferries are economically vital.
In Gibbons, the court invalidated a steamboat monopoly that New York had awarded to Robert Livingston and Robert Fulton on the grounds that it interfered with interstate commerce by shutting out competing New Jersey-to-New York Hudson operators. Thomas Gibbons, a lawyer from Savannah, Ga., who hired young Cornelius Vanderbilt as his vessel's pilot, was the successful plaintiff.
As a result of the decision, according to "Gotham," the magisterial history of New York City written by Edwin Burrows and Mike Wallace, the number of steamboats serving New York jumped to 43 from 6 within a year. Traffic "grew so rapidly that competition between rival operators often degenerated into brawling and boat-ramming," the book says. By the mid-19th century, 850-ton ferries that could carry 2,000 passengers plus horses, wagons and carriages were crossing the Hudson every 10 minutes during the day and every 15 minutes at night. 
We're not quite back to that level yet, and there are no signs of brawling and boat-ramming these days between the city-owned Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway and their growing number of competitors. 
The ferry provides an exhilarating commute, even now that unblemished autumn days have given way to the rawness of winter, when the city is often shrouded in dankness and my boat's rooftop whale-watching deck is abandoned as we huddle below. 
We've traded in the subway's constant "stand clear of the closing doors" for the ferry's posted instructions of what to do in case of a "man overboard." Step 1: "Throw overboard a ring buoy as close to the person as possible."
Sometimes whimsical, sometimes purposeful -- depending on one's mood -- the choppy ride transforms us "bridge and tunnel" exiles into quintessential New Yorkers. We approach the city as it was meant to be approached, gliding alongside Manhattan at a pace determined by geography, not congestion. We also admire the city -- even when our sight lingers on the downtown skyline's painful absence -- as it was meant to be admired. Every ferry rider, no matter how jaded, is susceptible to occasional gaping. 
There is a timelessness to the river, and to New York's vitality as a port, that brings to mind Walt Whitman's sentiment in his 1856 poem, "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry": 
On the ferry-boats, the hundreds and hundreds that cross, returning home, are more curious to me than you suppose;
And you that shall cross from shore to shore years hence, are more to me, and more in my meditations, than you might suppose. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (93%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RIVERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WILDLIFE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (75%); AIRPORTS (74%); AIRLINES (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); MAMMALS (72%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) FERRIES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; TRANSIT SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (56%) NEW YORK WATERWAY INC; PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP 

PERSON: MARTINEZ, ANDRES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



237 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Changing a Boundary Between Mortgages

BYLINE:  Compiled by Vivian Marino 

 BODY:
As home prices have skyrocketed in many parts of the country, so has the demand for so-called jumbo mortgages to finance them. But with these bigger loans come bigger financing costs -- the rate for jumbo mortgages is usually 0.25 to 0.75 percentage point higher than that for conventional mortgages. 
 Starting Jan. 1, though, home buyers will get a break. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two of the nation's largest sources of mortgage financing, announced last weekend that they would raise by 7.3 percent the size of a loan considered a conventional mortgage on a single-family home in 2003, to $322,700 from $300,700. Rising home prices were cited. 
 The change could mean considerable savings for many borrowers. Consider someone who gets a $322,000, 30-year mortgage. At the jumbo rate of 6.42 percent, she would pay $2,018 a month in principal and interest. But at the conventional rate of 6.08 percent, principal and interest on that same loan would come to $1,947.15 a month, a savings of $25,632 over the life of the loan, according to Bankrate.com, an online provider of banking information.
Other new loan limits for 2003 are $413,100 for two-family properties, $499,300 for three-family and $620,500 for four-family. 
The limits are 50 percent higher in Alaska, Hawaii and the United States Virgin Islands.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FANNIE MAE; FREDDIE MAC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (74%); HAWAII, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



238 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 55 words

HEADLINE: Write When You Get Work 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Whistling Past the Unemployment Office" (Urban Studies, Dec 1) was annoying to someone who is looking for work. 
 After 30 interviews, Dave Rippon still "hasn't gotten so much as a nibble." He is either exaggerating or he should be worried. Who gets 30 interviews in two months, anyway?

MIKE MISNER
Upper West Side

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (84%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: MISNER, MIKE; RIPPON, DAVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



239 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 1457 words

PERSON: Philip Francis Berrigan 

HEADLINE: Philip Berrigan, Former Priest and Peace Advocate in the Vietnam War Era, Dies at 79 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Philip F. Berrigan, the former Roman Catholic priest who led the draft board raids that galvanized opposition to the Vietnam War in the late 1960's, died on Friday in Baltimore after a lifetime of battling "the American Empire," as he called it, over the morality of its military and social policies. He was 79.
 His family said the cause was cancer. 
 An Army combat veteran sickened by the killing in World War II, Mr. Berrigan came to be one of the most radical pacifists of the 20th century -- and, for a time in the Vietnam period, a larger-than-life figure in the convulsive struggle over the country's direction. 
In the late 60's he was a Catholic priest serving a poor black parish in Baltimore and seeing nothing that would change his conviction that war, racism and poverty were inseparable strands of a corrupt economic system. His Josephite superiors had hustled him out of Newburgh, N.Y., for aggressive civil rights and antiwar activity there; the "fatal blow," he said, had been a talk to a community affairs council in which he asked, "Is it possible for us to be vicious, brutal, immoral and violent at home and be fair, judicious, beneficent and idealistic abroad?"
He hardly missed a beat after his transfer to Baltimore, founding an antiwar group, Peace Mission, whose operations included picketing the homes of Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and Secretary of State Dean Rusk in December 1966. By the fall of 1967 Father Berrigan and three friends were ready to try a new tactic. On Oct. 17, they walked into the Baltimore Customs House, distracted the draft board clerks and methodically spattered Selective Service records with a red liquid made partly from their own blood.
Three decades later, Mr. Berrigan remembered feeling "exalted" as the judge sentenced him to six years in prison. From then on, he would be in and out of jail for repeated efforts to interfere with government operations and deface military hardware.
Even before his sentencing for the Customs House raid, Father Berrigan instigated a second invasion, against the local draft board office in Catonsville, Md. Among those persuaded to join was his older brother, the Rev. Daniel J. Berrigan, a Jesuit priest and poet, who had been one of the first prominent clergymen to preach and organize against the war. 
The "Catonsville Nine" struck on May 17, 1968, taking hundreds of files from the draft board office. They piled the documents in the parking lot and set them burning with a mixture of gasoline and soap chips -- homemade napalm. 
Reporters were given a statement that read, "We destroy these draft records not only because they exploit our young men but also because they represent misplaced power concentrated in the ruling class of America." It continued, "We confront the Catholic Church, other Christian bodies, and the synagogues of America with their silence and cowardice in the face of our country's crimes."
When the police arrived, the trespassers were praying in the parking lot. The cameras loved the Berrigans. The definitive photograph of the event is the striking image of two priests in clerical dress, one big and craggy, the other slight and puckish, serenely accepting their imminent incarceration. 
The Catonsville raid inspired others around the country, the tactic becoming a sort of calling card of the "ultra-resistance." It also elevated the Berrigan brothers to the status of superstars. "Father Phil" and "Father Dan" were on the cover of Time magazine and illuminated in profiles by the smartest writers. 
But many Americans saw them as communists and traitors, or at best naive dupes of the Vietcong. And among their own allies, grumbling grew about a cult of personality and a certain disdain for anyone unwilling to make the same sacrifices the Berrigans demanded of themselves. 
Philip Francis Berrigan was born Oct. 5, 1923, in Two Harbors, Minn., the youngest of six sons of Thomas W. Berrigan and Frida Fromhart Berrigan, a German immigrant. Thomas Berrigan was a frustrated poet and a political radical whose labor organizing activities led to his dismissal as a railroad engineer, after which he moved to Syracuse.
After high school, Philip played semiprofessional baseball before enrolling in St. Michael's College in Toronto. In January 1943, after one semester, he was drafted.
The life of black sharecroppers in Georgia, where he had basic training, and the treatment of black soldiers on his troop ship to Europe made an indelible impression on his conscience. So did his own role in infantry and artillery battles that earned him a battlefield commission as second lieutenant. In so many words, he came to consider himself as guilty of murder as the Germans and Japanese. Along with this came the conviction that he had grown up on a diet of nationalistic propaganda in which the good -- "white Europeans" -- always triumphed over evil -- "anyone else."
After graduating from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., in 1950, he committed himself to the priesthood and was ordained in St. Joseph's Society of the Sacred Heart in 1955. Later, he earned degrees from Loyola University and Xavier University, both in New Orleans.
The young priest became passionately involved in civil rights and antiwar activities, especially after the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. He was frequently in trouble with his superiors, whom he openly criticized for supporting the status quo, and occasionally with the law. He boasted that he was the first American priest jailed for a political crime.
In the trial that resulted in his second prison term -- the trial of the Catonsville Nine in 1968 -- the defendants were all found guilty. 
In April 1970, after his appeals were denied, he was to begin serving a three-and-a-half-year term for the Catonsville incident, to run concurrently with the six-year sentence from the Baltimore raid. 
But the Berrigan brothers and two other Catonsville defendants reasoned that if they had been right to break the law in the first place, then it would be wrong to accept the government's punishment for it. So they went underground, and for a time two priests were among the criminals most wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Daniel eluded capture until Aug. 11, but Philip was arrested on April 21 in St. Gregory's Church in Manhattan and began serving his sentence in Lewisburg, Pa.
He spent many prison hours praying and filling journals with his trademark polemical writing, which over the years condemned everything from deceptive breakfast cereal advertising (a form of "violence") to the modern church. "The Gospel the church preaches," he wrote, "is a precise statement of the life it leads -- a degenerate stew of behavioral psychology, affluent ethics and cultural mythology, seasoned by nationalist politics." 
While at Lewisburg, Father Berrigan unwittingly helped set in motion a new controversy.
He had fallen in love with a nun, Elizabeth McAlister of the Religious Order of the Sacred Heart. In a ceremony without witnesses the two had secretly declared themselves husband and wife in 1969. They smuggled love letters past the prison censors through a trusted young inmate, Boyd Douglas, who was allowed outside to attend college classes.
According to the biographers Murray Polner and Jim O'Grady in "Disarmed and Dangerous," Father Berrigan's fellow inmate James R. Hoffa, the Teamsters president, warned that Mr. Douglas was an F.B.I. informant. But this expert opinion was ignored, and the exchanges ultimately became a source of great embarrassment and the basis for fresh prosecution. The letters talked of kidnapping a government official -- Henry A. Kissinger was mentioned -- and of shutting down government buildings in Washington.
The result was a conspiracy trial in 1972 that ended in acquittal on all major charges. 
Philip Berrigan was paroled in December 1972. He and Elizabeth McAlister legalized their marriage in 1973. They issued justifications on personal, scriptural and political grounds -- and were excommunicated. From then on the couple lived and worked in Jonah House, a small religiously oriented commune they founded in Baltimore. 
Through his antinuclear Plowshares operation, Mr. Berrigan led a series of raids, among them an attack in 1980 at the General Electric plant in King of Prussia, Pa. Two decades later he was still at it, though the world had largely stopped paying attention.
Thus citizen Berrigan, then 77, missed the 2001 premiere of a documentary film about Catonsville. He was in an Ohio prison on charges of interference with a weapons system.
In addition to his wife and brother Daniel, Mr. Berrigan is survived by three children, Frida, Jerome and Katherine; and three other brothers, John, James and Jerome.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Sunday about Philip F. Berrigan, the former Roman Catholic priest and Vietnam War protester, referred imprecisely to the verdict in a 1972 federal conspiracy trial in Harrisburg, Pa., in which he was a defendant. On the three major charges, which included conspiracy to blow up government buildings, the jury was hung, 10 to 2; it did not acquit the defendants. Prosecutors later declined to retry them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip F. Berrigan, right, going to trial in 1968 with his brother Daniel. (United Press International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); VIETNAM WAR (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); SENTENCING (88%); ARMIES (78%); US SELECTIVE SERVICE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); RACE & RACISM (68%); JUDGES (68%); WRITERS (60%); CANCER (56%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; VIETNAM WAR; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

BERRIGAN, PHILIP; LEWIS, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Religion 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



240 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Santa's Shop Wishes It Checked Buyer Twice 

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY 

DATELINE: NORTH POLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Bob Reiss knows the business of Christmas make-believe. For several decades he has supervised every ho, ho and ho that has echoed through Santa's Workshop, his quaint theme park here in the Adirondack Mountains. He is also in his 30th year of playing Jack Jingle, a kind of advance man for Santa who wears a bell-jangling hat.
 Mr. Reiss knows about prima donna Santas. He knows that a viewing window in Santa's house can reduce children's fears and speed up lines. He knows to hire a new Santa when the old Santa starts believing his press clippings. Over the years a couple of white-bearded employees have legally changed their surnames to Claus, which Mr. Reiss considers an unsettling form of Method acting. 
 But for all his savvy in make-believe, Mr. Reiss said he still does not know how he, of all people -- 76 years old and as sharp as a holly leaf -- came to believe that his own fantasy had come true: that he had finally found a buyer who would preserve the theme park's integrity and allow him to keep playing Jack Jingle every Christmas season. 
Well, Merry Christmas. 
The would-be buyer, Gregory P. Cunningham Sr., turned out to be a convicted felon with a bit of a reputation. A "con man," an upstate prosecutor calls him. An itinerant "pitchman," says an upstate judge, who described Mr. Cunningham's modus operandi as ginning up a sure-fire project and then leaving the area, "his promises virtually always unfulfilled."
Mr. Cunningham, 49, admits to both his criminal record and a decade-old tax lien of roughly $280,000 in Binghamton. But he said that he had worked with Mr. Reiss for months to develop a business plan for Santa's Workshop, and that his family's trust invested $50,000 in the deal. "I don't know how that's a pitchman," he said.
By the time Mr. Reiss determined that a convicted felon was not quite the right fit for Santa's Workshop, the damage had been done: to his reputation, to his business, and to Wilmington, a town whose economic sleigh is hitched to the park. The workshop even closed for a few months, for the first time in its half-century existence; the fallout was measured in the sport utility vehicles filled with crying children that pulled away from the locked gates and into the Hungry Trout and North Pole motor inns.
"Personally, I'd be better off if four years ago I'd said, 'We're done, knock the buildings down and call it a day,' " Mr. Reiss said. "But I wouldn't have felt too good."
Today, Santa's Workshop is open again, thanks to an investor from Oswego and a determined band of local good-deed doers. But things are still as messy as slush, with lawsuits and angry words and hurt feelings -- all revolving around a place where, the ads say, "Christmas dreams come true for kids from 1 to 92."
One day last week, Mr. Reiss put on his noisy hat and wandered through the snow-covered park that sprung from the imagination of his father, Julian Reiss; a park that in this age of frenetic, high-tech amusement seems so earnest and retro. Here was the St. Nicholas Chapel with its Nativity scene and small pews. Here was the stable with real-live reindeer. Here was Tannenbaum the Talking Christmas Tree to compliment you on your scarf, thanks to a hidden elf with a microphone.
The theme park, the first of its kind, made national news when it opened in 1949. Every day from late June until Columbus Day, thousands of people came to the side of Whiteface Mountain to see Santa in his off-season, or to send a letter with a North Pole postmark. Mr. Reiss watched its success from afar while serving in the Navy; anyway, he planned to be an industrial engineer.
But by the 1960's, the would-be engineer was honoring his dead father by running Santa's Workshop. And by the 1970's, the former Navy lieutenant was performing as Jack Jingle in the park's new Christmas preview show, which was luring hundreds of families to spend late-autumn weekends in the post-fishing, pre-skiing Adirondacks.
"It bothered me at first; I thought I was out of costume," Mr. Reiss said. "I had to mature into it."
As Jack Jingle was maturing, so was the park, which over the years became tired-looking. Its popularity melted gradually, like Frosty in the sun. Mr. Reiss looked up one day to find that he was in his 70's, with a wife saying it was time to retire and three children with no interest in placating Santas in summer.
On Thanksgiving Day 1999, Mr. Reiss appeared on the QVC home-shopping network to say that he would be willing to sell his theme park, as long as the buyer shared his values -- his father's values. "We've tried to conduct this business to be a force of good in other people's lives," he said the other day.
After wading through the offers, Mr. Reiss thought he had found his heir apparent by springtime in Mr. Cunningham, who talked of preserving the park's charms while also bringing in virtual-reality attractions. Finally, 12-year-old Buddy would have something to do while Santa mesmerized 5-year-old Sis.
The newcomer's words enchanted Mr. Reiss. "I wanted to believe," he now says. Before long Mr. Cunningham was living with his wife, Joan, at the Reiss family's Holiday Lodge, helping with the 2000 Christmas preview and learning about the business his family was poised to buy.
About that time a copy of a newspaper article from a faraway town mysteriously arrived in Wilmington; soon its words were crackling like kindling in the foothills of Whiteface Mountain. Not only had Mr. Cunningham been convicted of an embezzlement-related charge in Broome County in 1997, but he had also been recently arraigned on similar charges in Montgomery County, 200 miles away.
When Mr. Reiss inquired, Mr. Cunningham explained that he had settled for a plea bargain in Broome County, and that the new matter was merely a business misunderstanding. "Before he took our deposits, Mr. Reiss was aware of my background," Mr. Cunningham said, although he did not recall mentioning that outstanding $280,000 tax lien.
Mr. Reiss admitted that he knew of these matters when he signed a sales contract in early 2001, one that came with the agreement that he could continue to play Jack Jingle.
"Here was the white knight I'd been waiting for," he said. "Now that I was locked in, I wanted to believe he was telling me straight."
With Mr. Reiss's approval, the Cunninghams set about to make Santa's Workshop more hip. They fixed some of the rides, gutted the kitchen in the Mother Hubbard's Cupboard restaurant and moved things around in the Jack Jingle Theater.
But doubts mounted through the spring of 2001, as The Lake Placid News peeled back the layers of Mr. Cunningham's past, and the state police took him away in handcuffs for his indictment on grand larceny and forgery charges in Montgomery County. Finally, Mr. Reiss made two startling, humbling decisions: he would try to block the sale to the Cunninghams, and he would not open Santa's Workshop for the 2001 season. The place was in physical and karmic shambles.
This was big news in Wilmington, where just about every one of the 1,036 residents seems to have worked at Santa's Workshop, from Jeanne Ashworth, the town supervisor, to Roy Holzer, the owner of the Little Super Market. More important, it was bad news to tourists, who were now annoyed and somewhat deaf, thanks to the back-seat wails of traumatized children. "Oh, it was very painful, both economically and emotionally, with carloads of crying children at the doorstep of the visitors bureau," Ms. Ashworth recalled. "That is not an overstatement."
It may sound like a movie script, but it is true. Jim Carmelitano from the North Pole Motor Inn, Jerry Bottcher from the Hungry Trout and some other local residents worked to put Santa's Workshop back together again in time for the 2001 Christmas preview. They may have shaken their heads at Bob Reiss's stubborn naivete, but if it were not for him, they say, the jingles of the season would not be emanating from their cash registers.
Everyone wound up having a nice Christmas last year -- except, perhaps, Mr. Cunningham, who was convicted of those charges in Montgomery County and sentenced to up to six years in prison. He is still in town, though, managing a local motor inn while awaiting some legal rulings: on a lawsuit against Mr. Reiss, on the appeal of his conviction, and on his challenge of a new, related indictment, this one in Oneida County.
He and his wife say that they may not be the most loved people in Wilmington, but they work hard and expect to be running Santa's Workshop soon. Perceptions in Wilmington have been skewed by the dominance of Bob Reiss, Mrs. Cunningham said, adding, "He owns Santa Claus and Jesus."
Mr. Reiss said he doubted that the Cunninghams would ever step foot again on workshop soil. He has learned his lesson, he said. "My main problem probably was that I am altogether too trusting, and I was eager -- very eager -- to find the right person to pass the mantle on."
Although some wonder whether Mr. Reiss will ever let go, he has chosen another successor: Doug Waterbury, an Oswego businessman who has bought a majority share in the park with an agreement to buy out Mr. Reiss within five years. He has already made changes, and has coaxed Mr. Reiss into raising the modest prices for things like hot dogs and letters from Santa.
The two also have an understanding about when a certain old man can put on a hat of bells and walk around his father's Christmas fantasy: any time he wants.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Reiss works at keeping the Christmas magic alive at Santa's Workshop, started by his father in 1949. (Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Children and their parents are enjoying Santa's Workshop again. Gregory P. Cunningham Sr., above, a convicted felon, had signed a contract to buy the park. (Lee Manchester/The Lake Placid News); (Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. 52) Map of New York State highlighting North Pole: Tucked away in the Adirondacks, a little Christmas make-believe. (pg. 52)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (86%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); FELONIES (70%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (68%); MOUNTAINS (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) AMUSEMENT AND THEME PARKS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CHRISTMAS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: SANTA'S WORKSHOP (NYS AMUSEMENT PARK) 

PERSON: REISS, BOB; CUNNINGHAM, GREGORY P SR; WATERBURY, DOUG 

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (71%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



241 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Austin Journal; 
A Slogan Battle Keeps Austin Weird

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Red Wassenich is sure he coined the phrase "Keep Austin Weird" on a Saturday morning because he was listening to "The Lounge Show." The show, a weekly radio program, plays offbeat music -- Bing Crosby crooning "Hey, Jude" -- and Mr. Wassenich likes it so much he made a donation.
 "Whoever answered the phone said, 'Why did you support the show?' " Mr. Wassenich recalled. "I said, 'I don't know. It helps keep Austin weird.' " 
 The moment a few years ago that those words left his mouth, Mr. Wassenich said, he felt the jolt of inspiration. He had watched unhappily as Austin, his funky, once affordable hometown, had been transformed into a high-tech boomtown. Suddenly, people in expensive clothes driving expensive cars were buying houses at ridiculously expensive prices. Restaurants held wine-tasting parties at $50 a glass.
Mr. Wassenich, 52, decided something needed to be said.
If not quite "Remember the Alamo," "Keep Austin Weird" worked well enough. He and his wife, Karen Pavelka, printed bumper stickers, and the phrase soon began popping up around town. College students wore "Keep Austin Weird" T-shirts. Web sites sprang up. Weirdness seemed to be making a comeback.
All of which makes the latest development perhaps the weirdest of all: a trademark dispute has broken out over the rights to "Keep Austin Weird." A local company that began printing the phrase on T-shirts and hats last year wants to make it a trademark. Mr. Wassenich has filed a challenge with the Patent and Trademark Office.
"It's a perfect illustration of what is unweird about Austin," Mr. Wassenich said of the trademark application. "Somebody's trying to make a buck off of everything."
Mr. Wassenich has asked for an extension of the public comment period on the trademark application as he considers how to make a more formal challenge. Meanwhile, the apparel company, The Outhouse Designs, is trying to counter any impression that it is some profit-obsessed corporate monster.
"There shouldn't be a feud here," said Scott Jackson, 39, the owner. "We should be getting on the same page."
Mr. Jackson and Brian Riebe, president of The Outhouse, said they were unaware that anyone had claimed authorship of "Keep Austin Weird" until they read about Mr. Wassenich this week in an Austin American Statesman article by a humor columnist, John Kelso. Mr. Jackson, an artist, said he had started the T-shirt line last year after hearing the phrase around town.
"We have no way to refute that," Mr. Riebe said of Mr. Wassenich's claim on the phrase. "He may have been the one to come up with it."
The Outhouse Designs hardly evokes the corporate shadow of, say, I.B.M. It has a wooden outhouse in its lobby. One of its most popular T-shirts celebrates a local club, Lucy's Retired Surfer Bar.
Mr. Riebe said that seeking a trademark was just basic business and that the company's application was only for apparel. He said Mr. Wassenich's proposal to leave the phrase in the public domain was "honorable but a bit idealistic."
Mr. Wassenich, a librarian at Austin Community College, has made weirdness an avocation. He fancies black velvet depictions of Elvis and has a collection of smashed cutlery and teapots hanging in his kitchen.
Ms. Pavelka said: "The weird thing is before I met Red, I had a collection of melted things on the wall of my apartment. It was a match made in heaven."
In July 2000, the couple began printing "Keep Austin Weird" bumper stickers and made certain it was a money-losing proposition. Proceeds went to help abandoned dogs.
Mr. Riebe said he planned to call Mr. Wassenich in hope of finding a compromise. Mr. Wassenich, who concedes that his salary will probably not support a long trademark battle, says he nonetheless believes he has found a worthwhile fight.
"They can come pry our cold, dead hands off our bumper stickers," he said, then he started laughing at the thought.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Red Wassenich and his wife, Karen Pavelka, display a "Keep Austin Weird" bumper sticker. He opposes making the phrase a trademark. (Kelly West for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARKS (89%); TRADEMARK LAW (89%); TRENDS (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); PATENTS (70%); HOME PRICES (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%) TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; T-SHIRTS (APPAREL); SLOGANS AND MOTTOES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: OUTHOUSE DESIGNS INC 

PERSON: WASSENICH, RED; YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (95%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) AUSTIN (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



242 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Union Vote Authorizes Transit Strike 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Increasing the chances of a transit shutdown next weekend, the union representing 34,000 New York City subway and bus workers voted overwhelmingly yesterday to authorize a strike.
 The president of Transport Workers Union Local 100, Roger Toussaint, said that the vote did not necessarily mean there would be a walkout, adding that it depended on whether a contract was reached by next Sunday, when the current one expires. 
 Thousands of transit workers attended two meetings yesterday at the Javits Convention Center, where many of them called management's offer insulting and said they would be willing to strike if that was what it took to obtain a fair contract. New York State's Taylor Law prohibits strikes by the city's transit workers. 
"Their contract offer is terrible, it's disrespectful," said Jose Rondon, a bus driver in Upper Manhattan. "I will do whatever has to be done to get what we deserve."
On Thursday, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced a contract offer calling for a wage freeze in the first year and raises in the second and third years but only if the union agreed to productivity increases. The union, whose members' salaries average $44,000 a year, has called for a 24 percent raise over three years.
Mr. Toussaint said that more than 5,000 transit workers attended each meeting yesterday and that the strike authorization votes were unanimous. Clearly fearing a contempt citation for inciting an illegal walkout, Mr. Toussaint said he did not propose the strike authorization, noting that it was proposed by workers from the floor.
In an interview, he called the strike vote appropriate and denounced the authority's offer, saying: "It's a ridiculous offer and we reject it completely. It's not even a starting point. The worst part is it came so late, just 10 days before the contract expires."
Last night, the transportation authority's chief negotiator, Gary Dellaverson, criticized the decision to authorize a strike, saying threats of illegal action would not make reaching a settlement any more likely.
He said the authority could not afford much in the way of raises because it faces a $2.7 billion deficit and is contemplating sizable fare increases.
"No responsible person has questioned the state of the M.T.A.'s finances," he said. "The union simply ignores the reality of the economy of this city, and indeed the entire state of New York. The M.T.A. does not have that luxury."
On Friday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg warned that a transit strike could paralyze the city and could contribute to deaths because emergency vehicles would be forced to a crawl in the gridlocked streets. He warned of bringing the full force of the law against those who strike.
Gov. George E. Pataki has also warned against a walkout, saying, "A strike would be an illegal act with very grave consequences to those who break the law."
Three years ago, when the union and the authority were approaching the last contract deadline, the union threatened to strike and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani warned of contempt citations and huge fines if the transit workers walked out. The two sides averted a strike by reaching an agreement several hours after the contract expired.
Mr. Toussaint said he was concerned about the possibility of going to jail if there were a strike. At a news conference last night, he criticized the Taylor Law, saying it favored management by not pressuring management to negotiate in good faith. He faulted Mayor Bloomberg for repeatedly criticizing the union without urging the authority to bargain harder.
The union asserted that the authority's proposal would reduce workers' take-home pay by 2.3 percent by requiring them to divert that percentage toward pension contributions. When the current contract was negotiated in 1999, the stock market was booming and management agreed that the workers could stop making that contribution. With stocks sliding since then, the authority said the workers should resume making that contribution to assure adequate funding of their pensions.
"We're looking for more, and they're talking about cutting," said David Straker, a motorman on the A and C trains. "This is ridiculous. If we have to strike, we will, but I don't think anyone wants a strike. We should try to exhaust all other options first."
Mr. Dellaverson proposed several productivity steps that could free up money for raises, among them ending the rule that bars subway cleaners from changing light bulbs or painting over graffiti. He said management had agreed to pay $60 million more to the health plan, a 22 percent increase, but the union complained that management was proposing higher co-payments for drugs and doctor visits.
Mr. Dellaverson said management's offer "strikes a careful balance between the needs of our customers, who are facing significant fare increases as well as possible service reductions, and our workforce."
But A. Ali, a train operator, said the authority's offer was unreasonable. "They can't ask us for three zeroes and to pay more money for pensions and health coverage, especially when the mayor is telling us we have to pay higher property taxes. What do they want us to do, live in the trains?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Rondon, a bus driver, called a contract offer "terrible."; Roger Toussaint, president of Transport Workers Union Local 100, said a job action would depend on whether a pact was reached by next Sunday. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 51) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; SUBWAYS; BUSES; WAGES AND SALARIES; STRIKES; FINES (PENALTIES); LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRODUCTIVITY 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



243 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: American Policies and Presence Are Under Fire in South Korea, Straining an Alliance 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH with DON KIRK 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Buddhist monks and Christian groups have held hunger strikes near the hulking United States Embassy here all week, and while the riot police keep the demonstrators from the gates, they cannot stop the taxi drivers from honking their horns in protest. 
 In even angrier demonstrations, students have thrown firebombs at American military bases here. During a recent music award show, meanwhile, a pop star smashed a model of an American tank on live television, drawing a rousing cheer. Foreign diplomats say universities have withdrawn speaking invitations to the American ambassador, for fear of trouble if he appeared on campus. 
 South Korea and the United States have long been the closest of trans-Pacific friends, but the recent turbulence goes well beyond youthful fashion or passing unrest in a country with a long tradition of protest. The growing estrangement has been evident in the race for president, to be decided in an election on Dec. 19, and many here are warning that the relationship is undergoing fundamental changes, with even more difficult times ahead. 
Roh Moo Hyun, the candidate who holds a narrow lead according to opinion polls, has repeatedly criticized Washington's Korean policies as "hard-line," and he boldly said that if elected he would "guarantee the security of North Korea." The 37,000 American troops here are committed to protecting South Korea from any attack by North Korea, and President Bush has said the North is a member of an "axis of evil." 
The immediate source of anti-American sentiment was an incident in June in which two 14-year-old girls were crushed by an American armored vehicle as they walked to a birthday party on a narrow road north of Seoul. Simmering anger has flared into outrage with the acquittal last month of two United States Army sergeants by an American panel in a military trial. 
But many authorities say the divide has deeper roots, involving this country's rapid passage to affluence and its perception that its distant ally is heavy handed and insensitive, particularly with regard to North Korea. 
Relations are worse than they have been in about 25 years, said Shim Jae Hoon, an expert on Korean affairs. Others say even longer. 
"The main issue then was human rights," said Mr. Shim. "Today the main issue is North-South relations. The two countries don't see eye to eye on foreign policy, and neither of them is handling the worsening relationship very well." 
The widening gulf between the two allies, and in their perceptions of North Korea, is reflected in numerous public opinion polls. In September, a Gallup Korea poll found that a majority of 1,056 South Koreans surveyed felt there was little or no chance of an attack by North Korea. After a disputed call during the 2002 Winter Olympics, when a jostled South Korean skater lost the gold medal to an American rival, another Gallup poll here reported that nearly 60 percent of respondents "disliked" the United States. 
Another poll taken before the deaths of the schoolgirls, which was published in November 2000 by The Dong-A Ilbo newspaper, found that only 42 percent of respondents supported maintaining the current number of American troops in South Korea, while 15 percent supported withdrawing them altogether. 
Mr. Roh, a labor lawyer and a former legislator and cabinet member with a background in social activism who has never visited the United States, also once said that American troops were not needed in South Korea. Nowadays he calls the military alliance vital. 
But he routinely emphasizes that the alliance is badly in need of revision, and the popular anger toward the United States has even forced his main rival, Lee Hoi Chang, a conservative whose international views are generally more in line with those of the Bush administration, to campaign for major changes. 
For a half century, the alliance has been the bedrock of South Korea's prosperity and of Washington's security planning in Asia. 
Few countries have made the economic strides that South Korea has made in recent decades. It leads the world in broadband Internet access, and it is second in shipbuilding; it is also the third-leading producer of semiconductors and fifth in automobile manufacturing. 
An important psychological lift came in June when South Korea served as a co-host, with Japan, for the World Cup soccer tournament, and its team made it to the semifinals. For the first time in the modern era, Koreans feel a swaggering sense of self-assurance. 
Yet daily life still serves up rude collisions between this newfound confidence and the country's dependence on what many Koreans now consider an ally that sometimes seems overbearing. 
For travelers, a bracing dose of this comes upon arrival at South Korea's dazzling new airport, just outside Seoul, where often the first thing passengers may see are American sergeants in combat fatigues barking orders to arriving American servicemembers. 
Also jarring is the gigantic Yongsan Army Garrison, covering 630 acres in the heart of this crowded city. The location of the post, in the center of the capital, is often justified by the nearness of the demilitarized zone between North and South Korea -- 40 miles away -- but it is still something that other countries with American bases, like Japan and Germany, do not have to endure. 
"We have a joint working group with our Korean partners to study ways to move this out of the central city," said the American ambassador, Thomas C. Hubbard. "We recognize the imposition that having a command headquarters in the middle of Seoul causes for many Koreans." 
Diplomatically, on both sides of the Pacific, many people say things began to go wrong at the first meeting between the freshly inaugurated President Bush and President Kim Dae Jung at the White House in March 2001. Mr. Kim went to Washington hoping to maintain the momentum of the last months of the Clinton administration, when it appeared that a historic security agreement with North Korea was in reach. 
Instead of an endorsement, many South Koreans, including some who are not partisans of Mr. Kim, felt that Mr. Bush showed insufficient deference to their president and was dismissive of Mr. Kim's policy of reconciliation with North Korea. 
For his part, Mr. Kim failed to understand how much Washington's outlook had shifted with the change in administrations, his critics say. "The perception is that the U.S. has been vacillating, but over the years, the Koreans have vacillated at least as much as the U.S. has," said one Western diplomat. 
Things have only grown worse since then, with Washington leading a campaign to force North Korea to abandon a nuclear weapons program whose existence, secret until recently, violates many arms control agreements. South Korean officials say their country's intelligence agencies, and not the United States as is commonly believed, first detected the existence of the North Korean nuclear program. Yet Mr. Kim, in the waning months of his presidency, has continued to press for engagement with the North. Mr. Kim is barred by the Constitution from seeking a second five-year term. 
With their overwhelming economic superiority and vastly better weaponry compared with their neighbor, South Koreans increasingly regard an unprovoked attack by North Korea as unimaginable, and public opinion has largely followed Mr. Kim. More than 62 percent of 1,013 respondents in a Sisa Journal-Media Research survey earlier this year called Mr. Bush's approach toward North Korea unhelpful.
"The Bush administration looked at the political calendar and made a calculation that they would be in office after Kim Dae Jung, and have given the appearance of just trying to wait him out," said Scott Snyder, the Korea representative of the Asia Foundation. "The unintended consequence is that Koreans have been getting the impression that their country isn't taken seriously. 
"Depending on what happens with North Korea," Mr. Snyder said, "I think the entire relationship could be on the table." 
Western diplomats deny there has ever been a strategy to simply await the end of Mr. Kim's term to reactivate diplomacy concerning North Korea. In any event, today the payoff of such an approach looks uncertain at best. 
Until less than a month ago, Mr. Lee, the conservative opposition leader, looked like a shoo-in for the presidency, but the merger of Mr. Roh's campaign with that of a third-party candidate and the uproar over the American acquittals in the deaths of the two girls have transformed the tenor of the race. The changes helped make a favorite out of Mr. Roh, whose diffidence toward Washington would almost certainly make for a pricklier relationship. 
Some experts say the biggest challenge to the South Korean-American alliance may be generational. Since the division of the Korean Peninsula was solidified after the Korean War, South Koreans have felt an ache from the separation of tens of thousands of families. Despite this country's prosperity, there is a deep anger over having been victimized by outside powers. 
"For Koreans, it is very ironic that we were divided by World War II, and Japan, your defeated enemy, was not," said Chung Mong Joon, the scion of the Hyundai industrial empire, and the unsuccessful candidate who merged his campaign with Mr. Roh's. "In Europe, Germany was defeated and divided, but Japan was aided by the Korean War, which left us divided. This is very unfair." 
As the generations age, fewer people have memories of the horrors of the Korean War, and of the poverty that South Korea overcame, and that benefits North Korea. 
"There are perfectly sound arguments that can be made for the U.S. presence, but they are less clear now that they have been in some time," said Nicholas Eberstadt, a Korea expert at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. "In the meantime, U.S. forces are making sonic booms over people's houses, causing environmental damage and doing the unpleasant things that unattached men all over the world sometimes do. 
"If the alliance has a purpose that is spelled out, then people can tolerate these sorts of things," Mr. Eberstadt added. "If not, we will have problems."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An American at a Seoul restaurant this month confronted an example of the rising anti-American sentiment. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); RIOTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); RELIGION (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (72%); ARMIES (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); OLYMPICS (68%); ACQUITTAL (62%); WINTER OLYMPICS (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) FRENCH, HOWARD W; KIRK, DON; ROH MOO HYUN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



244 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: At Deficit Time, the Stealth Pataki; 
He Leaves Backers on All Sides Guessing Who Will Suffer

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Throughout his campaign for re-election, Gov. George E. Pataki answered questions about the state's looming financial crisis with an optimistic confidence worthy of Winston Churchill. Again and again, he assured voters that he had steered the state through a similar crisis in 1995 and would do so again, although he did not say how. 
 Yet Mr. Pataki, a Republican, is in a very different political position than he was in 1995, after he was elected as a fiscal conservative who had vowed to cut taxes and owed nothing to organized labor. 
 This time, Mr. Pataki ran a nonpartisan campaign tailored to appeal to everyone, including labor leaders and business executives. Unions and traditional Democrats flocked to his side. He spent as much time on the campaign trail talking up expensive health care programs for the poor as he did promising tax cuts. 
The governor's efforts to be all things to all people won him the election, but how he chooses to balance the state's books will speak volumes about his core political principles, campaign strategists and budget experts say. In recent days, he has closeted himself with his budget officials, looking for a way to close a potential $2 billion gap in this year's budget and a gap of as much as $10 billion in the budget for the fiscal year that begins in April.
"They don't know which way to turn in terms of how to do it, and whose ox is gored," one Republican strategist said. "There is not any easy way out of this thing."
Yet in contrast to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, another Republican who has the burden of stretching dwindling revenues to cover a budget shortfall, Mr. Pataki is not likely to search for a solution on a public stage or to issue dire warnings that everyone must make sacrifices. If history serves as a guide, he will work out a plan behind closed doors, continue to sound optimistic about the future in public and remain silent about the details of his proposal until he presents it to the Legislature, perhaps as late as Feb. 1, when his executive budget is due.
Mr. Pataki's sunny but reticent style has left his supporters on both sides of the political spectrum guessing about his intentions. Union leaders are hoping that their support for the governor in the last election will persuade him to limit cuts to the state work force and to programs like Medicaid, which pays for health care for the poor. Business leaders and Republican luminaries are determined to hold him to his promise not to raise taxes.
It may be impossible for Mr. Pataki to satisfy both demands at once, budget analysts said. The state budget this year is about $89.6 billion, of which about $58.6 billion is paid through state taxes and fees. The state's portion of Medicaid is about $8.2 billion. State aid to local schools accounts for about $14 billion. 
Few budget analysts believe that Mr. Pataki can close the yawning chasm between revenues and expenses in the next fiscal year without touching either the health care or the education budgets. Both are not only sacred cows for the Democrats who control the Assembly, but are also important to some of Mr. Pataki's supporters in the labor movement, among them the heads of the largest hospital workers' union and the union of New York City teachers.
"People who were made promises that they wouldn't be hurt are now going to be hurt," said Brian D. Backstrom, the president of Change New York, a conservative group that has criticized Mr. Pataki's budgets in recent years. "There are a lot of chits out there. There are people waiting to cash in, with huge price tags."
One of those people is Dennis Rivera, the powerful president of the hospital workers' union, known as 1199/S.E.I.U. Though a Democrat, Mr. Rivera backed Mr. Pataki in this year's election, despite having gone to war with him in 1995 and 1996 when the governor first proposed cutting back the state's generous Medicaid benefits.
Since that initial conflict, the two men have made peace. They have joined forces to push through health care bills that expanded Medicaid to pay for insurance for the poor and to provide raises for health care workers. Steep cuts to Medicaid would meet with resistance from Mr. Rivera, unless they were balanced by tax increases on corporations and the rich, union officials said. Such a move would signal that the governor was returning to his political roots and forsaking some of his new allies. "The pivotal issue and the defining issue will be Medicaid," said E. J. McMahon, an analyst with the Manhattan Institute, a conservative group.
Similar pitfalls await the governor if he decides to freeze or cut back school aid. As usual, the Assembly Democrats can be expected to fight such measures. But so will the teachers who supported him in the last election. Mayors and county executives, meanwhile, are groaning about the burden the state has placed on them with new Medicaid programs. They are already lobbying the Legislature and Mr. Pataki to rein in health care spending. 
A desire for higher office may also color Mr. Pataki's decisions. He is a long shot within the Republican Party for the vice presidential or presidential candidacy because of his support for abortion rights and gun control. If he harbors any hope of higher office, he cannot afford to raise taxes and may want to reinforce his credentials as a fiscal conservative. 
"George Pataki has run so far to the left that he is now out of the mainstream of Republicans, and he did not start that way," said Josh Isay, a Democratic political consultant.
The governor's critics on the right say his current predicament is partly of his own making. Though he held the line on spending in his first two years in office, he and the Legislature let spending grow at nearly twice the rate of inflation over the last six years. The economic boom and the overheated stock market made it possible to do so without raising taxes.
Now, the stock market bubble has burst and income tax collections have plummeted, by $1.5 billion in the first six months of the fiscal year, or 7.5 percent. New York is not alone in this predicament. Most large, rich states face similar straits.
Critics say, however, that when faced with a competitive re-election battle, Mr. Pataki did not cut spending in this year's budget, as other states did. Instead, he balanced the budget with about $4 billion in one-time revenues that will evaporate next year, according to the state comptroller's office.
"The boom created such a huge revenue surge that this feels very painful coming down, but the fact is we have reverted to a more normal growth pattern," said Robert A. Kurtter, an analyst for Moody's Investors Service. 
Mr. Pataki still has a few options that may cushion the state's fall. He could borrow against the $1 billion that the state receives each year as part of a court settlement with tobacco companies, a tactic that would bring in $5 billion to $6 billion right away. He could save at least $700 million through accounting maneuvers like postponing the payment of bills and tax refunds until the next fiscal year. 
The governor might also cap the state subsidies to school districts that are intended to keep local property taxes down. He could also cut the state's 230,000-strong payroll through attrition, saving $1 billion for every 20,000 jobs, analysts say.
So far, Mr. Pataki has not given a hint of which way he will go. At a public appearance on Thursday, he said the state faced a potential $2 billion shortfall this fiscal year. When asked about possible Medicaid cuts, he said with characteristic finality, "I'm not going to get into the specific budget proposals I'll be making." 
Everyone is waiting to see what he does next.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); HEALTH CARE (68%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



245 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1907 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
That Mythic American Hero: The Regular Guy

BYLINE:  By A. O. SCOTT 

 BODY:
ALBERT SCHMIDT, the hero of Louis Begley's 1996 novel, "About Schmidt," is a man of privilege and position. Not that he doesn't have his troubles. Recently widowed and reluctantly retired as a partner in a top New York law firm, he endures the snakebite of filial ingratitude and the drift toward old age with grumpy stoicism in his luxurious house in the Hamptons. Schmidt's pension from the firm, supplemented by income from his tax-free municipal bonds, is sufficient to keep him comfortable, though not to dispel his temperamental inclination to worry about money.
 "It occurred to Schmidt," Mr. Begley writes, "that, to the average American, this would seem a pretty good deal for a single 60-year-old codger with no dependents, but was the average American accustomed to living as Schmidt lived? Had he worked as hard?" 
 These questions may display a regrettable lack of knowledge or curiosity on Schmidt's part about the lives of his fellow citizens, but on Friday, when Alexander Payne's screen adaptation of Mr. Begley's book is released in New York, Los Angeles and, fittingly, Omaha, Schmidt will receive an exquisite comeuppance. In transferring his story to film, Mr. Payne and Jim Taylor, his screenwriting partner, have exacted a karmic payback for the character's snobbery and insularity. Albert Schmidt has been reincarnated as Warren Schmidt, a newly retired executive at a medium-size insurance company in Omaha. His daughter (played by Hope Davis) is betrothed not to an ambitious junior partner at the old firm, as in the book, but to an unambitious Denver water-bed salesman (Dermot Mulroney). Schmidt's beloved Saab has been replaced by a Winnebago, in which he undertakes a meandering odyssey from Omaha to Denver. Yes, there may be some mitigation in being played by Jack Nicholson, but make no mistake. Schmidt has been reborn as something very much like the average American.
It is both curious and obvious that a simple change of geography and profession would have such a transformative effect. (And while many other details of the story have been changed, the novel's themes of parental disappointment, spousal bereavement and late-mid-life restlessness resonate with force and subtlety in the movie.) Mr. Payne, a native Nebraskan, and Mr. Begley, a Manhattan lawyer, have placed Schmidt in familiar milieus, drawing moral and aesthetic details according to what they know. But in transplanting Schmidt from the Northeast to the Middle West, Mr. Payne has not simply subjected him to a change of climate, topography and regional mores; he has plucked the unsuspecting Schmidt out of one literary tradition and inserted him into another.
Schmidt has migrated from the Ivy League, Episcopal world of Louis Auchincloss (and, behind him, Henry James) into the broad Rotarian heartland of Sinclair Lewis. And he has thus, perhaps even in his own estimation, gone from being a person of distinction to being a regular guy. He is the latest in a long line of sad, comical and heroic embodiments of the ordinary man that have, in loneliness, defeat and occasional glory, populated American novels, plays, movies and television shows for much of the past century. They include Clifford Odets's and Arthur Miller's histrionic heroes, John Updike's lusty, lucky Rabbit Angstrom, the haunted statistical strivers of 1950's critical sociology and, at a stretch, just about every movie cop and sitcom dad. They are embodied, characteristically, by the likes of Jimmy Stewart, Fred MacMurray, Jack Lemmon and Gene Hackman. They work, marry, divorce, get fired, complain and persevere. (There is a parallel tradition, stretching from Stella Dallas to Roseanne and beyond, devoted to the ordinary woman, but that is a subject for another essay.)
F. Scott Fitzgerald's observation that "the very rich" are "different from you and me" is usually taken as a statement about the very rich, who have always exerted a certain fascination on even the most democratic-minded writers and moviemakers. But more revealing, perhaps, is Fitzgerald's implicit assumption that the salient division in American life is between them and us. You and I, in other words, are not very different from each other. We must belong to the default category of the not-very-rich, a generality that, at least in the abstract, transcends region and background or washes them away in the solvent of averageness. Politicians increasingly pander to the middle class -- a group of people that is at once universally inclusive (something like 90 percent of us claim to belong to it) and perpetually forgotten, vanishing or neglected.
Culturemongers, in the meantime, both mock and celebrate the ordinary guy, the average American, who is at once an allegorical figment and a person who lives at a specific address, holds a particular job and drives a readily identifiable kind of car. He is both scapegoat and tragic hero, martyr and buffoon -- an archetype whose manifestations include Willy Loman and Homer Simpson. He struggles and strives, but he can never win: when he is happy, his contentment reflects the lamentable (and often laughable) constriction of his soul; when he is sad, his suffering indicts the cruelty and materialism of the social order.
This mythic figure is with us -- he is us -- in bad times and good. In 1922, the same year that James Joyce, in "Ulysses," turned an ordinary Dubliner named Leopold Bloom into a mythic hero, Sinclair Lewis introduced George Babbitt, an Ohio real estate salesman whose name quickly entered the vernacular. The American Heritage dictionary defines a Babbitt as "a member of the middle class whose attachment to its business and social ideals is such as to make that person a model of narrow-mindedness and self-satisfaction." But the original Babbitt is, by the novel's end, a victim as well as an embodiment of the cautiousness and conformity that surrounds him. He is unable to escape his family, his town and his fraternal association even as he is dimly aware of deeper meanings and higher values beyond their ken.
Babbitt carries out his failed revolt -- and Lewis advanced his enormously successful critique -- in the name of individualism. In "Babbitt," the regimentation of small town civic life, the tyranny of consumerism and the passionless routines of marriage all conspire to stultify every creative, rebellious or original impulse. "I've never done a single thing I've wanted to in my whole life!" Babbitt tells his son, Ted, at the novel's end. "I don't know's I've accomplished anything except just get along. I figure out I've made about a quarter of an inch out of a possible hundred rods." Perhaps the son, who forsakes college to pursue his dream of being an inventor, will redeem his father's compromised existence. "Well," Babbitt continues, "maybe you'll carry things on further. I don't know. But I do get a kind of sneaking pleasure out of the fact that you knew what you wanted to do and did it. Well, those folks in there will try to bully you, and tame you down. Tell 'em to go to the devil!"
These words are moving but also strangely self-canceling. Even as he rails against the oppressive power of "those folks" and everything they stand for, Babbitt remains, to the last, one of them. His energetic dissent is, in some ways, a restatement of their governing values. If the ideologies of American business and consumerism can be imagined as the slow poison that asphyxiates our fantasies of heroic self-fulfillment, they can also -- if anything, more plausibly -- be viewed as the oxygen that feeds such vague, vain dreams as George and Teddy Babbitt's. If towns like the fictitious Zenith, Ohio, were, in the decades from the end of the Civil War to the start of the cold war, graveyards of ambition, they were also its seedbeds, spawning more than their share of architects, industrialists, philosophers and, not incidentally, novelists like Fitzgerald and Lewis.
The broad concept of Babbittry -- the idea that the average American lives in a benighted, blinkered spiritual state -- has been both popular and durable. Lewis's novel was an immediate best seller, on a scale that suggests that many of its potential targets must also have been readers. With some important alterations in political tone and moral attitude, Lewis's central idea, like the name of his hero, has survived depression, war, the rise of the suburbs, the revolt of the cities, feminism, the sexual revolution, the counterculture, multiculturalism and the Internet. The 1930's added a dimension of economic desperation and political radicalism to the literary plight of the average American, who began to speak in urban accents that reflected, at least implicitly, backgrounds more exotic than Babbitt's native-born Protestantism.
He also began to speak, increasingly, from the stage and the screen, his speeches ringing with the populist rhetoric of Clifford Odets, Frank Capra and their followers. In 1948, Henry Wallace, the presidential candidate of the Progressive Party, proclaimed "the century of the common man," and for at least a decade, on Broadway and on television, that seemed to be so. This was the era of Arthur Miller's Willy Loman, Paddy Chayefsky's "Marty" and Jackie Gleason's Ralph Kramden.
"Attention must be paid to such a person" was Linda Loman's lament, in "Death of a Salesman," about her husband, and looking back over the decades you wonder when it has ever not been paid. The gentle, sentimental realism of "Marty" survives in Terrence McNally's "Frankie and Johnny," in its current revival one of the hottest tickets in New York theater. ("Marty" itself was recently tried out, in Boston, as a musical starring John C. Reilly, a rising Everyman of American cinema). "Death of a Salesman" is by now a staple of high school English classes, and the buffoonery and nobility of Gleason in "The Honeymooners" has endured through Archie Bunker, Homer Simpson, "Roseanne" and Hank Hill.
ALL of this may suggest a strain of masochism in the makeup of the average Americans who, however else we may think of ourselves, have been among the most loyal audiences for these representations. Or, as has sometimes been suggested, the popularity of satirical and quasi-tragic depictions of ordinary folk may be a reflection of the contempt in which they are held by the coastal Albert Schmidts who make the movies and write the novels and the plays. More than this, though, the durability of these figures suggests that, along with work, family and shopping, self-criticism may be a major American pastime.
Consider Warren Schmidt himself. In one of Mr. Payne's suggestive motifs, Schmidt keeps running into cows: photographs of prize steers adorn the walls of the steakhouse where his retirement dinner is held. Later, on the highway in his R.V., he passes a truckful of the beasts, bound, no doubt, for slaughter. And at his daughter's wedding, he takes the floor in a room dominated by an enormous joint of roast beef. And this, the film suggests, is the mirror of his own life cycle, in which he is used up, consumed and discarded in a carnivorous variation on Willy Loman's metaphor of himself as an orange whose peel is bound for the trash.
But if "About Schimdt" is a story of frustration and futility, it is also a comedy of unexpected fulfillment, about the serendipitous ways that life can be given meaning. In the end, there is nothing extraordinary about Schimdt except "About Schmidt."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Celebrating and mocking the ordinary: Jack Nicholson as a retired Omaha insurance executive in "About Schmidt," opening on Friday; left, Ernest Borgnine (with Betsy Blair) in 1955 as a Bronx butcher in "Marty." (Above, New Line Productions; left, United Artists)(pg. 1); Arthur Kennedy, left, Lee J. Cobb and Cameron Mitchell in the 1949 production of "Death of a Salesman," Arthur Miller's landmark play. (Associated Press)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM (87%); LITERATURE (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (70%) MOTION PICTURES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: SCOTT, A O; NICHOLSON, JACK; PAYNE, ALEXANDER; BEGLEY, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ABOUT SCHMIDT (MOVIE); ABOUT SCHMIDT (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



246 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Warren Strugatch; E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Police Returning Vests Made by L.I. Subsidiary
 The New York City Police Department said Tuesday that it had begun returning more than 6,400 bullet-resistant vests for replacement. The new vests will offer "a higher level of protection," says the maker, a subsidiary of DHB Industries of Carle Place. 
 Tests done in September by the state's Labor Department showed that the vests failed to stop bullets, said Eric Gioia, a New York city councilman who is calling for an investigation into the DHB subsidiary, Point Blank Body Armor, based in Oakland Park, Fla. 
 Sandra Hatfield, the chief operating officer of DHB, said, "I'm not aware of any tests we failed." Asked why the company had agreed to replace the vests, she said, "I don't know." 
Point Blank is currently involved in a labor dispute with Unite, a needleworkers' union, and has hired replacements for workers who are on strike. The number of workers involved is unclear. In a news release, Councilman Gioia said it was 200. Ms. Hatfield said it was only 30. 
Ms. Hatfield said that the basis of the Point Blank problems was "unfounded and unfavorable stories" circulated by striking workers and union leaders. In October, the company filed lawsuits against officials from Unite and other unions and against the International Union of Police Associations, accusing them of defamation, conspiracy and interference with business relationships.
Other Point Blank customers include the four branches of the United States armed forces, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and other federal, state and local police departments.

$16 Million Write-Down
The Standard Microsystems Corporation (Nasdaq: SMSC) of Hauppauge said Monday that it would write down more than $16.3 million in its fiscal third quarter, which ended Nov 30. The move reflects market devaluations of two technology companies in which it holds minority stakes.
Standard Microsystems said it would write down roughly equal amounts on SMC Networks of Hauppauge, which it spun off as a separate company, and on Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing of Singapore. Standard Microsystems attributed the companies' decline in value to "the prolonged economic slump in the technology marketplace." Compiled by Warren Strugatch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PERSONAL SAFETY EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (90%); STRIKES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); LITIGATION (65%) POLICE; BULLET-PROOF CLOTHING 

COMPANY: STANDARD MICROSYSTEMS CORP (82%); POINT BLANK BODY ARMOR INC (57%); CHARTERED SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION OF POLICE ASSOCIATIONS (54%) DHB INDUSTRIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (82%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%) SIC3842 SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES; 

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



247 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: CULTURAL STUDIES; 
My Big Fat Palace Wedding

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

 BODY:
IN "The Uses of Enchantment," Bruno Bettelheim's 1976 book on the psychological resonance of fairy tales, he contends that "Cinderella" appeals to young children because it validates their feelings of sibling rivalry. It maintains, he argues, the fattened hope in boys and girls that one fine day they will succeed in vanquishing the evildoer in Raggedy Ann pajamas occupying so much psychic space in the top bunk.
 Versions of the Cinderella story date back to ninth-century China. The latest will arrive in theaters on Friday in the form of "Maid in Manhattan," a movie starring Jennifer Lopez and Ralph Fiennes that presumably will draw from a broader demographic than America's micro-population of 9-year-old girls. 
 The film's plot doesn't deviate much from the archetype: as a chambermaid of unshakeable rectitude, Ms. Lopez wins the heart of Mr. Fiennes's well-to-do politician simply by crossing his sightline while wearing very expensive clothes that do not belong to her. In this instance the magnetic ensemble is a white, double-face cashmere Dolce & Gabbana pantsuit, the borrowed property of a hotel guest, who one is instantly meant to believe, doesn't deserve it in the first place.
I went to see "Maid in Manhattan" on my own volition with a friend a week ago at a sneak preview. We had intended to go see "Solaris," but ultimately we could not help ourselves. It is the same kind of helplessness that befalls so many women I know, who submit, without internal dispute, to watching "Pretty Woman" or "Sabrina" for the 16th time on television, invariably at an hour they had otherwise reserved for making their way through another chapter of another volume of an L.B.J. biography.
Mr. Bettelheim's theories about "Cinderella," however elaborately detailed, do not explain why the narrative could trigger a response in anyone who had grown out of her bunk bed -- in, say, a woman old enough to be reading Bruno Bettelheim.
Of course, one might argue that all women really want to be swooped up by a genteel public servant who not only looks like Ralph Fiennes but who also maintains a focus on them so intense he barely makes the time to flip through the latest issue of Roll Call. But fantasies are webbed more intricately than that.
Cinematic renderings of "Cinderella" enchant grown-ups for the same reason that the tease of the Internet economy kept us going against all reason -- they allow us to indulge in the cherished myth of class mobility and all its attendant promises of instant and effortless transformation.
"Sweet Home Alabama" is a rare recent example of a romantic comedy -- or of any kind of pop cultural product, in fact -- aimed at puncturing that delusion, creating as it did a character who exfoliated away her layers of urbane self-invention to find a truer happiness within her tribe of origin. 
The fictional Melanie Carmichael realizes what readers of real-life newspaper wedding announcements know well, that hotel maids don't happily wed the sons of political dynasties; the daughters of chauffeurs, accountants or dentists rarely meet fourth-generation titans of industry; that people from Fifth Avenue and 66th Street are unlikely to marry people from Astoria Boulevard.
Less outwardly derivative of something from the Brothers Grimm, "My Big Fat Greek Wedding," which recently surpassed "Pretty Woman" as the highest-grossing romantic comedy of all time, also lures the viewer in, conflating fantasies of romantic deliverance and social ascension. Nia Vardalos's frumpish diner hostess is rescued from her boisterous and stifling immigrant family when she bumps up against a bohemian schoolteacher who also happens to be a son of soft-spoken privilege. 
Seminal to the power of these stories is that the heroine merely bumps up against the man of means, which is to say that she is not actively working to marry up. She is never saving diligently to pay for the $600 ticket to the charity event that will afford her access to the sort of men who might spirit her away from the tiny apartment with a bathtub three inches away from the toaster oven.
Sabrina, one is reminded, doesn't actually do anything to land Linus Larrabee; she hardly even notices him.
To pursue is vulgar, to be chosen ennobling, the message suggests. Pointedly, no character in "Maid in Manhattan" is depicted quite so unpalatably and pathetically as the actual owner of the Dolce suit, a Sotheby's executive played by Natasha Richardson, who, jilted by her fiance, makes an unambiguous play for Mr. Fiennes. Ms. Lopez the domestic, convinced of her fixed place in the social order, does almost nothing but deflect his advances.
The drug disseminated to the audience here, and in every movie like this one, is the precept that no matter what your costume -- maid's uniform, streetwalker's stiletto vinyl boots or tailored corporate suit -- someone will eventually emerge from the ether to recognize that you are a creature like no other. And you, already so uniquely pure of heart, will rise even further. A photo montage at the end of "Maid in Manhattan" indicates that Ms. Lopez's character, now entwined with Mr. Fiennes's and freed from the tyranny of soiled linens and dirty grout, spends her days advancing the cause of the underclass. 
And wouldn't we all choose such a course if it were handed to us? The instinct that keeps many women infatuated with the "Cinderella" myth is the same one, curiously, that has driven them to make a best-selling book out of "The Bitch in the House," a compilation of essays, many by prominent writers, about love, marriage, work and motherhood that, taken together, make a very strong argument for the fact that women are tired. They are tired of laboring to find men and keep them, of ministering to careers, children, aging parents and their own bodies, all the while remaining responsible for ensuring that there is always 2 percent low-fat milk in the fridge.
They know better than to subscribe to antiquated notions of perfect solutions, but sometimes they can't help feeling like chambermaids. And it is at moments like this when it is too hard to relinquish the prospect of a Ralph Fiennes facsimile materializing to take care of the mess.

GRAPHIC: Photos: OUT OF MAID'S UNIFORM -- Dreams can come true in the classic animation "Cinderella," above, and in Jennifer Lopez's updated version, "Maid in Manhattan," top. (The Walt Disney Company); (Columbia Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); COMEDY FILMS (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) FAIRY TALES; MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (86%) BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



248 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Out With the Old, and Waiting for the New (Tax Cuts)

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
WHAT do the defenestrations of Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's top economic adviser, reveal about the economy now, its future and that of the stock market? 
 About the economy now, the moves show how worried President Bush is that the nation will slip back into recession. "The economy is perceived to be a serious problem," said Jan Hatzius, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. "You wouldn't need to change the team if there wasn't a problem." Nor would you change the team if you weren't worried about being re-elected in 2004. 
 Clearly, the White House understands that the economy needs strong medicine if it is to stay on its feet and become ambulatory. That medicine, administered heretofore and only somewhat successfully by Alan Greenspan, will soon be augmented by new tax cuts, if Mr. Bush has his way.
Neither Mr. O'Neill nor Mr. Lindsey had the ideas, or the credibility, to fix the problems. So both had to go.
Many economists agree that tax cuts are exactly what the doctor ordered, largely because consumer spending, the engine of economic growth in recent years, is imperiled by excessive borrowing.
"This economy is really laboring under a tremendous debt load," said Paul Kasriel, director of economic research at Northern Trust in Chicago. "The corporate sector has made great strides in slowing down its borrowing, but the private sector hasn't even started."
Sure enough, debt as a percentage of assets among households has reached new highs, consumer borrowing was very strong in the third quarter and equity extraction from homes has been enormous. 
The household net worth figures released last week by the Federal Reserve, showing the latest in a string of declines, were also ominous. "Prior to 2000, there had never been a year-on-year decline in household net worth in the postwar period," Mr. Kasriel noted. "It happened in 2000 and 2001 and now 2002. People are going to have to start saving more."
But increased saving means reduced spending, which would in turn drag down the economy. So tax cuts are a way to give consumers the cushion they need to save a bit even as they keep spending. 
The problem for Mr. Bush is that his tax cuts -- of whatever sort -- are not likely to be enough to counterbalance increased taxes that most consumers will face from their state and local governments, which are struggling mightily. And because spending at state and local levels is almost double that of federal spending, restraint there could damage the economy significantly. 
"If you take all levels of government together, it is unlikely that the federal government's stimulus can outweigh the state and local governments' restraint," Mr. Hatzius said. So even if Mr. Bush succeeds in pushing tax cuts through, they may not be that effective in propelling the economy. 
As a result, Mr. Hatzius and Mr. Kasriel both expect the economy to sputter along next year. Mr. Hatzius projects gross domestic product growth of around 2 percent for 2003, while Mr. Kasriel forecasts around 3 percent.
So where does that leave the stock market? Stable, perhaps, but not strapping.
"Sluggish gross domestic product growth usually means corporate profits aren't much better than flat," Mr. Hatzius said. And if corporate profits stagnate, stock indexes may, too. What has gone on in the past two years may well continue: individual stocks do well but the indexes disappoint.
"This economy is in hock," Mr. Kasriel said. "It has come off 20 years of extreme leveraging. It's going to take time to work through these things. And it won't be pleasant."

GRAPHIC: Graph "Fading Wealth" shows the total household net worth from 1996-2002 (through 3rd quarter). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (83%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); STATISTICS (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



249 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2719 words

HEADLINE: The Envelope, Please: Those Bonuses Come Crawling Back 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Additional reporting for this article was provided by Reed Abelson, David Carr, Danny Hakim, Laura M. Holson and Steve Lohr.

 BODY:
LAYOFFS, bankruptcies and falling stock prices: 2002 has been full of them, along with other corporate troubles. This is not likely to be a good year for bonuses. Or is it?
 Company executives, union officials and compensation consultants say that when millions of American workers receive bonuses -- or word about their bonuses -- in the next several weeks, some will be pleasantly surprised. From top executives like Douglas R. Conant, the chief executive of Campbell Soup, to auto workers, magazine editors and pharmaceutical employees, many people will actually receive bigger bonus checks than they did last year. 
 The outlook, though, varies widely from industry to industry, and sometimes from company to company within an industry. 
And, obviously, in only a very few cases will those payments measure up to the boom-time bonuses before the stock market went bust. In most sectors and regions, including Wall Street and Silicon Valley, the supersized pay packages of the late 1990's look like mirages that may not reappear for years.
Bonuses have an immediate economic impact that is often felt even before the checks are cashed. Some companies that pay them early in the new year inform employees in advance so they can plan their holiday spending. The effect reverberates most in the New York metropolitan area, and in states like Michigan, with its concentration of auto workers who traditionally receive bonuses.
"It's immediate and it's continuous," said Frank Fernandez, the chief economist of the Securities Industry Association. "You're already seeing this weakness in the real estate market in New York." Sales of some luxury goods have remained strong, he said, because people seem to be having "one last fling" at conspicuous consumption.
On Wall Street, investment bankers and traders at firms like the Goldman Sachs Group and Morgan Stanley are bracing for thinner envelopes. On average, the 2002 payouts, which account for the bulk of annual compensation, will be down at least 35 percent, Wall Street executives and pay consultants said. But that means only that a typical managing director at a major investment bank will earn about $1 million for 2002, down from $1.6 million last year and $2.1 million two years ago, they said.
Although the raw numbers may not compare, the bonus picture looks better in other industries. Microsoft, which has suffered relatively little in the technology slump, has not shrunk its bonus pool. Nearly all of its 50,000 full-time workers are eligible for cash bonuses of up to 15 percent of salary.
For auto workers, everything depends on the nationality of their employer. Those who assemble cars for the Big Three are steeling for a second consecutive bleak year, while their counterparts at Honda Motor recently received year-end bonuses of almost $5,000 each.
"There are many out in the marketplace who would have thought that bonuses would have been way off, given the type of conditions we've been seeing," said Ken Abosch, a senior consultant at Hewitt Associates in Lincolnshire, Ill.
But so far, he said, companies have been paying bonuses at just a slightly lower rate than last year. Bonuses based on performance will amount to about 10.5 percent of total compensation in 2002, down from 10.8 percent last year, according to Hewitt's survey.
"That confirms to us that companies are pretty much planning to hold the line and spend what they went into the year planning to spend on bonuses," Mr. Abosch said. Hewitt expects bonuses to rise again in 2003, to almost 11 percent of total pay.
Bonuses do not make or break the family budget for most American workers. About a third of companies still hand out small amounts of cash, $25 gift certificates or even turkeys or hams, Mr. Abosch said. Though most managers consider such gestures ineffective, he said, they are hard to eliminate once people have come to expect them.
Many companies were surprised last year by how poorly they did, said Jannice L. Koors, a vice president at Pearl Meyer & Partners, an executive pay consulting firm in New York. As a result, about 40 of the 200 biggest corporations in the United States eliminated bonuses for their chief executives in 2001, compared with 10 to 20 in a normal year, Ms. Koors said. As the bosses' bonuses go, so go those of the rank and file, she said.
By the end of last year, chastened managers had become much more conservative in budgeting and planning, Ms. Koors said. So the performance targets they set for this year were easier to meet.
"Most bonuses are paid out relative to budget, so you could actually see bonuses go up," she said, but she added that it was too soon to get a good read for most major companies because bonuses will not be determined until January or February.
Doling out bonuses will be especially sensitive at companies that have had one or more rounds of layoffs. The Charles Schwab Corporation, which has eliminated more than a third of its jobs in the last two years, reinstated quarterly bonuses for its rank-and-file employees this year after suspending the payments in 2001. Although it has not met its profit and revenue targets, Schwab has paid workers 25 percent of what they would have received if it had.
Greg Gable, a spokesman at Schwab's headquarters in San Francisco, said the company decided to pay bonuses "in recognition that they were working really, really hard in a really hard situation." Schwab has not decided whether to pay them again for the fourth quarter or whether to pay annual bonuses to its co-chief executives, Charles R. Schwab and David S. Pottruck.
"I would think that for the survivors, compared to last year there will be more happy campers," Ms. Koors said of all workers who are receiving bonuses for this year. "I don't think that even the happy campers will be getting bonuses as big as they once got."
Here is a look at the bonus picture in various industries.

A Bonus Pipeline Dries Up
Known for their generosity, drug companies paid lavish bonuses to senior executives, researchers and sales representatives in recent years as they rang up fast growth and strong profits. But 2002 has been tough as many companies struggle with relatively arid pipelines of new drugs and fierce competition from generics.
"There may not be this orgy of cash being tossed around," said Deborah Seltzer, a vice president for Ray & Berndtson, an executive recruiting firm. Bonuses are still being paid, she said, but they are not as hefty.
"Companies are being far more conservative," agreed Cheryl Buxton, a managing director at Korn/Ferry International, an executive recruiting firm. Investors and others are demanding that companies more closely tie the compensation of senior executives to corporate performance. "That feeling is escalating across the industry," she said.
When GlaxoSmithKline, the British drug company, proposed a pay package for its chief executive, Jean-Pierre Garnier, valued at roughly $18 million, for example, there was an outcry from shareholders. The stock, which trades on the London Stock Exchange, has lost about a third of its value this year. A few weeks ago, Glaxo backed down, saying it would postpone its decision on Mr. Garnier's compensation.
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, which has also had its share of troubles, top executives are being held accountable. Peter R. Dolan, the chief executive, and executives who reported to him over the last year will receive no increases in salary, or any bonus, said Bonnie Jacobs, a company spokeswoman. Bristol-Myers' shares have lost almost half their value this year as the company dealt with excess inventory that had built up because it had encouraged wholesalers to buy too much of its products. Bristol has had to restate its earnings, and the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether it improperly inflated its revenue.
Other Bristol-Myers employees will fare better, because the goals that allow them to receive bonuses were changed, Ms. Jacobs said. Bristol-Myers typically pays bonuses in two parts, she said, with the first already disbursed and the second installment due in February.
Some employees are getting bonuses early this time. At Pharmacia, which plans to merge soon with Pfizer, employees will get their bonuses in January rather than March, a Pharmacia spokesman said. But the celebration may be muted: layoffs are expected at the combined company.

Magazine World Celebrates
The recession cut deep into the revenue and profits of magazine publishers, but you would not know it from looking at the bonuses that some are paying. Because publishing lost steam early in 2000 and was hurt more than most industries in 2001, the financial plans for 2002 set relatively low hurdles.
Hearst Magazines is expecting a record year because of stellar results from Cosmopolitan and O, the Oprah Magazine, and a cost-cutting initiative, an executive there said. High-ranking executives, including editors in chief, at the more profitable magazines will receive bonuses of at least $100,000, this executive said. They will also accrue longer-term bonuses based on the overall performance of the company and the businesses they run.
Conde Nast Publications, a unit of Advance Publications that is known for its executive perks and salaries, is also in the bonus game. When Steven T. Florio became president in 1994, he instituted a bonus plan for the first time at the company and included caps of $250,000 for the awards. S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman, met with publishers at a lunch last week and listened as Mr. Florio said 8 of the company's 16 magazines had met or exceeded their goals. Bonuses of $100,000 or a bit more are common for executives at successful magazines, with corporate bonuses running much higher.
At the Time Inc. unit of AOL Time Warner, executives were told after the merger of America Online and Time Warner that their long-term incentive program would be replaced with options. Those options are worthless unless AOL's stock price rises sharply.
Yet despite the deep slump in advertising, Time Inc. met its goals for the year. Executives who ran successful divisions or magazines could double their salaries, with bonuses of $100,000 or more. In addition, Ann S. Moore, the chief of Time Inc., promised that reinstating the long-term incentive program would be a primary objective in the coming year.
At the Walt Disney Company, whose latest animated film, "Treasure Planet," was a disappointment at the box office, bonuses are due in a few weeks, and in many cases they will be smaller than last year, said Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman.

Detroit Misses Out
In Detroit, the year is ending on a glum note, but employees of foreign automakers like Honda, Toyota Motor and BMW are sharing in their employers' comparative success. Most analysts and economists expect Ford Motor and the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler to make slight profits this year, but not enough to hit the companies' bonus targets. Workers at General Motors are expected to get bonus checks of perhaps $500, said David L. Littmann, the chief economist at Comerica Bank in Detroit. There were no bonus checks at the Big Three for last year.
For workers at G.M., which struggled for much of the 1990's, those checks are not far below the average of $745 received during the previous seven years. But Ford workers were accustomed to checks averaging $4,671 and Chrysler workers were used to an average of $5,654 while their companies were cashing in on the S.U.V. boom.
"This past year was the first in seven or eight years we haven't had one," said Jerome Williams, 56, a pipe fitter at a Ford plant in Avon Lake, Ohio, who is also the first vice president of his United Automobile Workers local. "Sure, it's always good to get a bonus. We're hopeful for next year, but it hinges on if we get a profit for this year."
The disparity between the Big Three and foreign manufacturers will hurt states like Michigan while pockets of the South, which is dotted with factories owned by foreign brands, will benefit.
"South Carolina, Kentucky and Tennessee will get a good boost," as well as Alabama and Mississippi, Mr. Littmann said, adding that in a good year, bonuses can bring $2 billion of extra spending to Michigan's economy.

A Few Stars in Silicon Valley
In Silicon Valley, companies are still paring their payrolls. But some technology companies are making enough to keep paying bonuses.
At Dell Computer, average bonuses run up to 20 percent of salary, but for executives they can reach 80 percent or more. The bonuses are based on individual performance goals and the company's financial performance, though not its stock price. So far this year, Dell's profits are up 15 percent. "We put a pretty significant chunk of every employee's compensation at risk," said Dominick DiCosimo, Dell's vice president for compensation.
At Microsoft, salaries have grown considerably in the last few years because the value of employee stock options, which had soared during much of the 1990's at Microsoft and other high-tech companies, has evaporated in the last two years.
"The mix of pay is shifting," said Mark W. Englizian, Microsoft's director of compensation. "Employees want more secure forms of compensation," adding that there is "nothing more secure than cash."
Annual bonuses, Mr. Englizian added, are "not a significant portion of the cash pay, and that reflects that we're a company with a research and development culture." Software products, he explained, can take a few years to develop and bring to market, so bonus criteria are not always linked to company profits.

Expecting a Letdown
Like many other industrial companies, American Electric Power computes incentive payouts after year-end earnings numbers are announced in late January, and pays bonuses in the spring.
"Since the system was put together, we maxed it out once, had a couple of 'lunch money' bonuses during off years and the rest have been somewhere in the middle," said Pat D. Hemlepp, a corporate spokesman. The company's earnings were down this year, so Mr. Hemlepp expects bonuses to come out on the low end. Most employees may expect the same, and thus are not budgeting for a windfall.
"With the wide range of payouts we've had in the last five years, I doubt if anyone's counting on this money when planning expenditures," he said. "Employees understand that company performance is the key factor, and that weak earnings override strong departmental or individual performance."
For highly paid workers in service professions, year-end bonuses often determine how much spending they can do at the holidays.
"We may get nothing," said one associate at a New York law firm. Many lawyers have assumed that they will not receive a bonus this year, she said. In the past, she added, she has used bonus money to pay down student debt.
"I've been spending a lot of money" regardless of the lack of any information about a bonus, this associate said, adding that she had recently bought a sofa and other new furniture, as well as a new laptop computer for her apartment. "I'm going to put off the 32-inch flat-screen TV," she said.
But bonuses may be most important to Wall Streeters. Two years ago, they were demanding and getting multimillion-dollar pay packages; now, most of them know that they are fortunate to have survived rounds of layoffs as securities firms have eliminated more than 75,000 jobs. 
"People who really matter will get paid, and people who would be considered journeymen will be paid very poorly," said Joan Zimmerman, a partner at Rhodes Associates, an executive search firm in New York. "The differentials in compensation are going to be almost impossible to comprehend, they'll be that large."
What will matter most is which bonus pool a banker or trader is drawing from. Some businesses on Wall Street have held up, most notably sales and underwriting of corporate and government bonds. But those dependent on profits from selling new stocks or advising on mergers and acquisitions are likely to be disappointed, compensation consultants said.
"The mantra that we hear everywhere is: Where are they going to go?" said Alan Johnson, president of Johnson Associates, a consultant on compensation based in New York. "There are very few jobs, very few open positions. Most of the people we talk to say this is the worst hiring market in a decade."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David S. Pottruck, top left, co-chief of Charles Schwab, has yet to hear if he will get an annual bonus. But big bonuses are being paid by magazine chains like Time Inc., where Ann S. Moore, top right, is chief, and Conde Nast, led by Steven T. Florio, above left. Peter R. Dolan, above right, chief of Bristol-Myers Squibb, will not get a bonus or a raise this year. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 13) Drawing (Randall Enos)(pg. 1) Chart: "Bonuses Survive"Based on surveys of corporations, most workers accustomed to year-end bonuses will receive them again this year. Companies are sticking with performance-related pay plans and have allocated almost as much of their payroll budgets to them. Graph shows the median year-end bonuses for management and other workers from 1980-2000. Graph shows the percentage of companies using performance-related bonuses from 1994-2002. Graph shows the average percentage of payroll used for bonuses for salaried, nonunion workers from 1994-2002. (Sources: BNA Inc.; Hewitt Associates)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); HNDA (LSE) (60%); HMC (NYSE) (60%); 7267 (TSE) (60%); MS (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: ANN MOORE (79%); DOUGLAS R CONANT (75%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



250 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Surprise, It's the Economy Again, Stupid! 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
IF you measure the success of a president by job creation, George W. Bush is a failure so far. The economy now supports 2.2 million fewer private-sector jobs than it did when he was sworn into office.
 That fact didn't bother voters in last month's elections, but the president decided that he needs a new economic policy team. On Friday, as some disappointing employment numbers were released, both Paul H. O'Neill, the treasury secretary, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's chief economic adviser, were pushed out. 
 Just whom Mr. Bush will turn to is unclear. Mr. O'Neill had been criticized for off-the-cuff comments that sometimes unsettled currency markets, and for not having the feel for financial markets of Robert E. Rubin, President Bill Clinton's treasury secretary.
Mr. O'Neill had been among the Bush administration officials who seemed most concerned about budget deficits, and most sanguine about the immediate economic outlook. If the Bush administration wants to sell a new economic stimulus package -- and its budget deficits -- it probably needed officials who could advocate the policy with more conviction.
That stimulus may be a good idea was indicated by Friday's job reports. It was no surprise that the number of manufacturing jobs in the United States shrank. That figure has been falling for years. But the weakness in service industries is new. The number of private-sector service jobs edged up by 7,000 in November, but is still 72,000 lower than it was two years ago, when Mr. Bush was elected.
Not since 1958 has the service sector lost jobs over a two-year period, not even during the severe recessions of 1973-75 and 1981-82. It is easy to understand why the administration might feel this was not the time to wait and hope for a better economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%) NORRIS, FLOYD; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



251 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Iraq and Sister Souljah 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
I am worried. And you should be, too.
 I am not against war in Iraq, if need be, but I am against going to war without preparing the ground in America, in the region and in the world at large to deal with the blowback any U.S. invasion will produce. 
 But I see few signs that President Bush is making those preparations. The Bush team's whole approach was best summed up by a friend of mine: "We're at war -- let's party." We're at war -- let's not ask the American people to do anything hard. 
This can't go on. We are at war. We are at war with a cruel, militant Islam, led by Al Qaeda, we are at war with a rising tide of global anti-Americanism, and we will probably soon be at war to disarm Iraq. There is no way we are going to win such a multidimensional conflict without sacrifices and radically new thinking.
For me, the question is whether President Bush, having amassed all this political capital by effectively responding to 9/11, is going to spend any of it -- is going to ask Americans to do things that are really hard to win these wars over the long haul. Does Mr. Bush have a Sister Souljah speech in him? If not, if he is just going to rely on the Pentagon to fight this war -- and on Karl Rove to exploit it -- then we will reap nothing but tears.
What would the president tell the American people if he were preparing them for this multidimensional war?
He would tell the American people that this war could cost over a trillion dollars, and no one should think that we're going to be able to use Iraqi oil to pay for it. It will be paid for by our Treasury -- and that means not just changing the faces of the Bush economic team but also re-examining the surplus-squandering tax cuts at the center of the Bush fiscal policy.
He would tell the American people that he is embarking on a Manhattan project to increase fuel efficiency and slash the cost of alternative energy sources to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Yes, it will take time, but gradually it will make us more secure as a nation, it will shrink the price of oil -- which is the best way to trigger political change in places like Saudi Arabia -- and it will provide the alternative to Kyoto that Mr. Bush promised the world but never delivered.
He would tell the American people that we can no longer afford our selfish system of farm subsidies and textile protectionism. It is a system that tells developing nations they must open their borders to what we make, but we won't give them full access to our markets for what they make: farm goods and garments. If nations like Pakistan continue to live in poverty, if their people can only afford religious schools that teach only the Koran, then we will continue to live in fear. If our national security interests lie in their development, and their development requires access to our markets, we need to open our markets and live what we preach.
He would tell the Palestinians that the U.S. intends to cut off all assistance and diplomatic contacts until they get rid of their corrupt tyrant, Yasir Arafat, because no peace is possible with him. He would tell Ariel Sharon that unless he halts all settlement building -- now -- the U.S. will start cutting off Israel's economic aid. And he would tell both that he intends to put the Clinton peace plan back on the table as his plan.
He would also tell all Arabs that America has one purpose in Iraq, once it is disarmed of dangerous weapons: to help Iraqis implement the U.N. Arab Human Development Report, which states that the failing Arab world can only catch up if it embraces freedom, modern education and women's empowerment.
Finally, he would tell Karl Rove to take a leave of absence until September 2004 so that nothing the president does in this war will be perceived as being done for political gain.
Friends, we are on the edge of a transforming moment for America in the world. If President Bush uses his enormous mandate to prepare for war -- in a way that really deals with our political and economic vulnerabilities, increases our own staying power and convinces the world that we have a positive vision and are responsible global citizens -- there is a decent chance we can win at a reasonable cost. But if Mr. Bush simply uses his mandate to drive a hard-right agenda and indulge in more feel-good politics, the world will become an increasingly dangerous place for every American -- no matter what war we fight, no matter what war we win. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); RELIGION (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); DISARMAMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; ISLAM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); KARL ROVE (58%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



252 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The Incredible Shrinking Government, Bush Style

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
UNLIKE Ronald Reagan, who insisted government is the problem not the solution, President Bush has never cast himself as an anti-Washington crusader. Indeed, national security concerns have forced him to put aside any ideological qualms he has about big government to support a striking expansion of federal powers and bureaucracy.
 Yet over the past several months, Mr. Bush has picked a fight with the federal work force in a way that has revived concern among labor unions -- and hope among conservatives -- that he is intent on being a hard-nosed, confrontational chief operating officer for Washington Inc. even as he rallies the government and the nation behind him in his role as commander in chief. 
 His impetus may be more managerial than ideological. But if Mr. Bush prevails, he could end up doing more to overhaul the Civil Service and to advance the conservative small-government agenda than any of his predecessors, Mr. Reagan included.
After a long battle in Congress, Mr. Bush won the right to hire, fire and move the 170,000 workers who will staff the new Department of Homeland Security with more ease than Democrats and public employee unions wanted to give him. 
He also laid out a plan to transfer as many as 850,000 government jobs -- nearly half the federal civilian work force -- to private companies as a way to save money and improve performance. Saying the country could not afford to grant a bigger raise in wartime, he set next year's pay increase for 1.8 million federal employees below the level sought by Congress, and then set off a storm by acknowledging that the administration had quietly re-established a bonus pool this year for more than 2,000 political appointees.
Ever since he was governor of Texas, Mr. Bush has been a master at blurring ideological lines while hewing by and large to conservative principles. To administration officials, there is no dissonance in his presiding over one of the largest expansions of government in decades while simultaneously seeking to rein in the bureaucracy.
"The president sees the federal government as an agent of positive change on behalf of a compassionate conservative agenda," said Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman. "He thinks the government can do things well, and it's important that the government do them efficiently as it does them well."
But he has heads swiveling, or shaking, among experts on governance across the political spectrum. To conservatives who have watched with dismayed resignation as the demands of fighting terrorism have trumped their goal of reducing the size of the federal government, Mr. Bush's actions in the last few months were welcome, if minimal, reassurance.
"These are half measures," said Ronald D. Utt, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group, "but it's about as far as he can go politically."
Some experts on the bureaucracy, Democrats among them, say Mr. Bush is right to push for more management flexibility within the civil service, which is under increasing pressure to attract better educated workers and redefine jobs for changing needs. But they also wonder whether management reform by a Republican president is cover for slashing domestic programs.
"Bush 43 is quite different from the Reagan administration," said John D. Donahue, a lecturer at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government who served as an assistant labor secretary in the Clinton administration. "Some of these guys in the Bush administration are not contemptuous of government in the way the Reagan people were, and are also deeply thoughtful about management. The question is going to be how the internal struggle plays out between the management reformers and the shrink-the-state contingent."
Labor leaders and analysts said Mr. Bush seems intent on a showdown with government-employee unions, the biggest source of growth in union membership in recent decades and a major supporter of Democrats.
"Not since the Patco strike in 1981 has any administration confronted federal labor unions as aggressively," said Joseph A. McCartin, a labor historian at Georgetown University, referring to President Reagan's decision to replace striking air traffic controllers. "It's clearly an exercise in trying to diminish the power of federal employee unions, and by doing so it has tremendous implications for the labor movement in general."
ELEMENTS of the administration's policy, especially the push to privatize many jobs, from mowing lawns to running laboratories, could also have broad implications for the economy.
Government employment has long been a stepping stone into the middle class for workers, especially blacks and women, who benefited greatly from efforts by the public sector to reduce discrimination in hiring. 
Even today, black and female workers remain more reliant on government jobs than white workers. Robert I. Lerman, director of the labor and social policy center at the Urban Institute, a research group, said that among black men, federal, state and local government jobs currently account for 15 percent of employment, versus 11 percent for white males. 
Critics of privatizing federal employment say it can lead to job losses, salary and benefit cuts and less job security, a trend that would expand if state and local governments follow Washington's lead. Even people who say privatization of government work can lead to savings for taxpayers and better government services warn against permitting the practice to reduce opportunities for women and minority groups.
Clearly sensitive to the perception that he is hostile to workers and their unions, Mr. Bush invited leaders of government employee unions to the White House for the signing of the bill creating the Department of Homeland Security. He has also taken pains in recent weeks to praise federal employees, especially for their role in keeping the nation safe from terrorists.
But the administration's critics accused Mr. Bush of saying one thing and doing another. 
"Republican businessmen will tell you you can't expect to achieve widespread organizational change without the participation of the workers, and the unions if they are unionized," said Elaine Kamarck, who ran the Clinton administration's "reinventing government" program. "Everything the Bush administration has done in terms of managing the government, and in particular the way they went about the homeland security bill, is contrary to how Republican businessman who have managed through organizational change would tell you to do it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: When 70 entry-level jobs opened up at the Social Security office in Baltimore in 1980, more than 10,000 people lined up hoping to become federal employees. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TERRORISM (66%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PRIVATIZATION; ORGANIZED LABOR; BLACKS; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



253 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Old Fears in the New Afghanistan 

BYLINE:  By Christina Lamb; Christina Lamb, world affairs correspondent for The Sunday Telegraph of London, is author of "The Sewing Circles of Herat: A Personal Voyage Through Afghanistan."

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
These days in Kabul there is a buzz in the air: new magazines and newspapers launching almost daily; film directors making movies; artists returning from exile; women clicking through the streets on high heels, flashing polished nails and made-up faces on their way to work; men sitting cross-legged on the floors of teahouses watching television and discussing the news. Some are even calling it the Paris of Central Asia. This is how life after the Taliban was supposed to be. As President Bush keeps pointing out to the people of Iraq, the new Afghanistan is a model for what their lives will look like after Saddam Hussein has been removed.
 Yet a year after the overthrow of the Taliban and imposition of a Western-backed government, there has been little improvement in the lives of most Afghans, few of whom possess televisions or fine clothes or care about the luxury of free speech. These people spend their days struggling to feed their children on an average annual income of $75. 
 Western promises that Afghanistan would never again be forgotten collide with reality. In the general ward of Kabul's main children's hospital sick children lie three to a bed, one oxygen tank passed among them. According to the hospital administrator, children have died on the operating table because the oxygen failed when the power went out, as it frequently does. The hospital has no backup generator.
Of course, $1.8 billion in foreign aid has poured into Afghanistan this year, but there is little evidence of it. Much of the money seems to have gone toward gleaming new offices and air-conditioned jeeps for the 1,025 United Nations agencies and international aid groups that have taken over many of the villas in the Wazir Akbar Khan suburb where Osama bin Laden's Arab acolytes used to dwell. 
Some Afghans have gotten jobs as translators and drivers -- and some are getting rich by charging outrageous rents -- but for most people the "U.N. Effect" has been an overload of an at best sporadic electricity supply and a rise in living costs. In fact, the Aschiana school, a highly regarded program for street children, is likely to lose its building. The landlord can earn far more in rent from a foreign aid organization that wants to convert it into a staff guesthouse.
The Taliban may no longer be running the state but Mullah Omar, their enigmatic one-eyed leader, is believed to wander the mountains, and many of the mullahs who inspired the movement were recently elected to Parliament in neighboring Pakistan. The moral police no longer stalk the streets but the fear remains, which is why so few women have cast off their burkas. In Wardak province, only an hour outside the capital, several schools for girls have been burned to the ground in the last two months. In Kabul last week, I spent a morning at the new beauty school in the Ministry for Women, chatting to giggling women trying out hairstyles on one another, creating ringlets with rollers fashioned from mulberry twigs. Yet when they opened the door for me to leave, the ministry's male guards shouted abuse, calling them whores and worse.
Any sense of political stability is tenuous at best. Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, wields so little power outside the capital that he is spoken of as the mayor of Kabul. Inside the palace he now has round-the-clock protection from Western bodyguards. They drip with machine guns and machine pistols, both to protect Mr. Karzai and to impress the Afghans, who carry rifles as casually as the English carry umbrellas.
President Karzai's chief concern -- and the one that prompts him at nearly every opportunity to appeal for more foreign peacekeeping troops to range outside the capital -- is the threat to his authority posed by warlords. Principal among these are Ismail Khan, from Herat in the west, and Abdul Rashid Dostum, the Uzbek general from the north, who control vast stretches of the countryside, not to mention the lucrative customs posts at the borders. In an interview last week, Mr. Karzai told me that while Mr. Khan is earning more than $1 million a day in customs revenues, the Afghan government does not have money to pay the salaries of teachers (just $16 a month).
Such a plea does not spring easily from Mr. Karzai, the fiercely independent Afghan leader, but it comes from the certain belief that if foreign troops leave, the country will plunge back into the chaos it faced in 1992. In those days, the mujahedeen who had fought together to oust the Russians and then formed a government, split into groups and turned their guns on one another.
Anyone wanting a glimpse of what a lawless Afghanistan might look like need only take a drive along Dar-ul-Aman. Nearly 80 years ago, Robert Byron, the writer, described the avenue with its rows of tall, white-stemmed poplars as one of the most beautiful in the world. In the early 1990's, fighting among many of the factions now represented in Mr. Karzai's government left the road in ruins. Today, there's not a tree in sight.
On a wintry afternoon last week, I sat in the destroyed gardens of the tomb of Babur, the Muslim emperor, and watched the pale sun disappear behind the Hindu Kush. Young boys were flying kites from the flat roofs of the mud houses that cling like swallows' nests to the hillsides; young girls, who a year ago had not been able to go to school, were returning from classes in their new red and black uniforms, their heads held high.
Suddenly the quiet of a day winding down was disturbed by a loud rumble. One of the caretakers of the bullet-ridden tomb pointed up at two B-52's. As I watched the planes tracing vapor trails across the sky, I wondered if the people of Iraq might soon be witnessing a similar scene above some desert town. The caretaker seemed to be having similar thoughts. Funny, he said. Throughout history we Afghans have always fought outsiders. Now we are frightened they will leave us.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rob Hatem) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILM (90%); TALIBAN (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TRENDS (77%); HIJACKING (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COST OF LIVING (72%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); TERRORISM (70%); POLITICS (70%); POWER FAILURES (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); HOSPITALS (66%); RELIGION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) ;LAMB, CHRISTINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



254 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Still Lagging on Warming 

 BODY:
President Bush's Secretary of Commerce, Donald Evans, told more than 1,000 scientists, economists and other experts attending a conference on global warming last week that their task was to "jump-start" President Bush's new five-year program of research into the causes of global warming and possible responses. The secretary is just a bit behind the times. There is already an enormous body of research on the subject, perhaps 20 years' worth, nearly all of it pointing to the need to adopt exactly the kind of remedial steps that the Bush administration has so far refused to take. What needs jump-starting is not research but policy. 
 Obviously we could all benefit from research. Sophisticated modeling can tell us more about global climate change and instruct us in how best to adapt. But the world does not need another excuse from Mr. Bush to delay the political steps necessary to begin slowing emissions right away. 
 The window is closing fast. Even now, nations are making energy investments that will be with us for years to come. The International Energy Agency predicted recently that $4.2 trillion would be spent on new electric generating plants over the next 30 years worldwide -- an average investment of $140 billion a year -- and that most of these would be using outdated, highly polluting technologies. Every year of delay locks in more outmoded investment, adds to the carbon emissions already in the atmosphere and increases the ultimate costs of protecting the environment. 
The need for swift, collective action was the premise of the Kyoto Protocol on global climate change, which sought to reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2010. Mr. Bush summarily rejected the Kyoto pact shortly after taking office. Even so, the rest of the world still looks to the United States for guidance and technology. This leaves it to a divided Congress to make the tough calls that Mr. Bush has avoided.
The immediate remedies are plain enough: cleaner cars and cleaner power plants. Mr. Bush opposes any mandatory limits on carbon dioxide pollution from either source, preferring a voluntary approach. But voluntary steps have not worked with industry in the past and will not now. While some companies are eager to do something about global warming on their own, using available technologies, the private sector as a whole will not make serious investments in cleaner plants or more efficient automobiles as long as the rules favor dirtier and more profitable alternatives: aging coal-fired power plants and gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s.
The rules have to change. There will undoubtedly be another effort in Congress to increase fuel economy standards. And there are two bills moving through the Senate that would reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants by combining mandatory caps with substantial, market-based financial rewards for operating more efficiently. The prospects for such legislation have not been improved, of course, by the election results and the ascendancy to key committee chairmanships of conservatives who, like Mr. Bush, worry about asking for any real sacrifice from industry.
Even so, Mr. Bush knows that his own clean air legislation, which seeks new controls on every major air pollutant except the gas that causes global warming, stands little chance of success unless he also addresses the issue of carbon dioxide. In other words, if he wants progress on any air pollutant, he may finally be forced to deal with the most frightening one of all. Unless he does, all the research in the world won't help a bit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (87%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%) WEATHER; EDITORIALS; GLOBAL WARMING 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



255 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Does Democracy Help Pakistan?

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
SIX weeks ago, in Pakistan's legislative elections, nobody -- not the semi-authoritarian president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf; not the religious parties who think General Musharraf isn't radical enough; and not the other parties in between -- emerged in full control. Now a government has finally been cobbled together through arm-twisting, party defections and backroom deals redolent of pressure from the president's office, and many here are disgusted with the whole thing.
 So the question arises: Is the "guided democracy" that President Musharraf has promoted as the way to keep Pakistan's radicals under control proving to be as unstable as the "flawed democracy" he has vowed to replace? 
 It is a question not just for Pakistan. The election results brought Islamist radicals to power in two areas along the Pakistani-Afghan border, where Qaeda and Taliban fighters are believed to be hiding.
Under the religious parties, whose agenda includes expelling American soldiers from Pakistan and implementing Islamic law, these areas could become even more of a safe haven for terrorists.
So Washington is left with two grim alternatives: It can keep sending F.B.I. agents to aggressively pursue Qaeda members in the border area, risking a dispute with an elected government. Or the raids could be reduced, leaving the hunting of terrorists to the Pakistani intelligence agencies who worked with the Taliban in the past. 
No wonder there has been little celebration in Washington over the results of this election, even though it had been promoted as a careful step toward full democracy.
In fact, the elections, which created the country's new National Assembly, have raised new questions about General Musharraf's political astuteness. Repeatedly, the president, whose power stems from his military role, vowed to be neutral. But many here say the mainstream parties would have done far better had he not tried to manipulate the election rules in favor of his allies among the divided moderates.
In the end, expectations of a rigged election dissuaded many moderates from voting at all, while the religious parties turned out voters in droves. So none of the mainstream parties won an outright mandate. And the hard-line Islamic religious parties received 10 percent of the popular vote, enough to bid seriously, if unsuccessfully, for a role in forming a national coalition.
So the battle for the soul of Pakistan, a country whose identity has vacillated h between being a more secular and a more Islamic state, remains in play, even as the American interest in events here has grown. Pakistan is the only Muslim country known to have a nuclear bomb. And American intelligence officials have concluded that Osama bin Laden remains alive -- perhaps somewhere in Pakistan.
What is unclear is how to contain the effects of the elections.
Talat Masood, a retired Pakistani general who says he is pro-Western, said the United States could undermine the religious parties by changing foreign policies that are widely resented -- toward Iraq, Israel and Afghanistan. Failing that, he said, the worst thing the United States can do is openly threaten the religious parties where they govern. Instead, he suggests that if the hard-liners are allowed to govern, Pakistanis might reject them, having seen what life under strict Islamic law is like. The raids by American F.B.I. agents in the border areas are an immediate flash point. President Musharraf can continue them -- but only at the risk of being called an American lackey.
Backing down to the Islamists also involves political risks, though. Since the election, the religious parties have proved bold and politically astute, and they have leveraged their vote gains into a surprising amount of political power.
PRESIDENT MUSHARRAF, on the other hand, has been left with a reputation for clumsiness. The beneficiary of a 1999 coup himself, he banned former Prime Ministers Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto, both now in exile, from the race. When supporters of their parties failed to turn out, allies of President Musharraf won the most legislative seats, but not enough to form a government. They managed to do so only by persuading 10 members of Ms. Bhutto's party to defect. Six of these became government ministers.
American officials called the new government an incremental step forward in the return to democracy. Critics of military rule dismiss it as a sham. "It's not incremental," said Samina Ahmed, project director for the International Crisis Group, a policy organization. "It didn't even start."
Even with those maneuvers, the ruling coalition is perilously thin. Zafarullah Jamal was elected prime minister by a single vote, and his government must survive a confidence vote within a few months.
Meanwhile, Western diplomats say they will wait and hope. In the best outcome, they say, religious parties would fail to produce the jobs, better schools and clean government Pakistanis desperately want while economic reforms by Mr. Musharraf's government show results.
Until then, the general is in a precarious position -- leading a fragile government trapped between American demands that F.B.I. raids continue and rising anti-Americanism among Pakistanis, with religious parties claiming a democratic mandate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's president, speaking before the October elections that left his government precariously in power. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIJACKING (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); ARMED FORCES (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISLAM; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) ;MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (PRES); ROHDE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) PAKISTAN; AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



256 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Cheneyville Christmas 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On TV this weekend, George Bush tells the story of George and the bush.
 "George stares down at the empty robe, then picks it up, looking puzzled," the former president says. "Mary's eyes peer out of a large, flowering bush. George starts to toss the robe, then reconsiders, eyeing the robe slyly." 
 "It's a Wonderful Life" was on NBC, and the visually impaired could tune in to a version in which Bush pere charmingly narrated the action, including the scene where Donna Reed loses her bathrobe and jumps into a hydrangea bush so Jimmy Stewart can't see her.
Poppy Bush did the voice-over as a favor for a blind woman from California who is an advocate of TV audio description for the blind.
The Christmas classic has special resonance for the Bushes this year.
Just as George Bailey reverses his life to see how things would have been different, the younger George Bush is reversing his father's life to see how things would have been different. (Rather than Pottersville, W. goes to Cheneyville, a grim, secretive place where the poor are squeezed and the environment is scrooged.)
If 41 hadn't been president, 43 would have nothing to do, since the kid spends all his time doing U-turns on the highway of Pop's presidency.
His father let Saddam stay and raised taxes to cut the deficit; the son has to get rid of Saddam and cut taxes, raising the deficit.
The son is determined to get the second term that the father didn't; the father lost his job because he did not appear to care about Americans' economic woes, so the son will make sure that he appears to care.
Thus, the Thursday night massacre of Paul O'Neill and Larry Lindsey. As heartless as Lionel Barrymore, Dick Cheney initiated the firings, brutally axing his old pal and fellow C.E.O., Mr. O'Neill, after assuring him that he had the president's confidence and could stay two more years. Andy Card pushed Mr. Lindsey off the sled of state.
Signaling its approval, the stock market shot up at news that the former head of Alcoa had been canned. 
Before the elections, the White House distracted us from its muddled policy on the economy by fussing about Iraq. Now it distracts us from its muddled policy on Iraq by fussing about the economy.
The C.E.O. Administration has given way to the Mayberry Machiavellis, as a former Bush official calls the politically obsessed West Wing in a Karl Rove profile in Esquire.
Now that the Republicans have control of Congress, the Bush team can stop pretending that it has an economic policy and can try to develop one in the 20 minutes before the 2004 campaign starts up.
Next time around, they're not going to be able to whine that the meanie Tom Daschle and his Democratic Senate were to blame.
By sending a forlorn Mr. O'Neill driving back to Pittsburgh, the White House offered only a counterfeit reckoning. In a genuine reckoning, they would have admitted the tax cuts aren't cutting it. If the Bushies want their fiscal policy, they can't have their national security policy. And if they want their national security policy, they can't have their fiscal policy. 
The war on Iraq will cost up to $200 billion, as Mr. Lindsey blurted out, and there is no numerical figure to represent the cost for the war on terrorism or the Department of Homeland Security or the beefing up of the F.B.I. and the C.I.A.
Just as the administration is having a hard time finding an economic strategy -- beyond lifting a tax on dividends for those who play the stock market -- they're having a hard time finding a casus belli.
President Bush thought he had Saddam boxed in, but he has been stymied by the Iraqi scheme of cooperating but not complying.
Dropping an 11,000-page declaration of their arms programs, Iraqis showed they had learned the art of the document dump from U.S. administrations, which have figured out that the way to confound investigators and the press is to hit them with a paper blizzard. By the time the Arabic diary of obfuscation is deciphered, it will be summer again and too hot to fight.
In a costly reversal of his father's presidency, W. will have to pay for his war against Saddam. The allies and gulf states put billions in James Baker's hat the last time. But it is unlikely that George Bush's friends, like George Bailey's, will bail him out with a shower of cash at the end. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); TAX LAW (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL; TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); KARL ROVE (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%) O'NEILL, PAUL (SEC); DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) ; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



257 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE TREASURY: THE TEAM; 
Two Casualties As Bush Seeks Economic Fix

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
From the first, they were leaders of a team that never quite clicked, the blunt-spoken industrial chieftain and the gloomy Harvard-trained economist. Neither was made for television. Both had trouble on Capitol Hill. Each drew criticism from left and right alike.
 So it was hardly a shock that Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, the former chairman of Alcoa, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, a former Federal Reserve Board governor who signed on early as President Bush's chief economic tutor, became the highest-ranking casualties of the administration's long struggle to get a handle on the economy. 
 On the very day Mr. Bush nominated him not quite two years ago, Mr. O'Neill faced criticism from conservatives because he had once supported gasoline and carbon taxes. But he insisted that his days as a "free-ranging, self-admitted maverick" were over, prompting a mock sigh of relief from Mr. Bush when he announced Mr. O'Neill's appointment. That proved to be premature. 
Mr. O'Neill's early propensity for making pronouncements that roiled the currency and stock markets later led him to confess, "I guess I made a mistake in thinking it was O.K. to talk beyond simplistic things, so I'll make it very clear: I believe in a strong dollar, and if I decide to shift that stance I will hire out Yankee Stadium and some rousing brass bands and announce that change in policy to the whole world."
Even the Republican Senate leader, Trent Lott, once suggested that Mr. O'Neill "needs to be careful with how he says what he believes."
Mr. Lindsey, too, suffered in comparison with Robert E. Rubin, the smooth, low-key, reassuring Wall Street executive who at different times held both his and Mr. O'Neill's jobs under Bill Clinton. A relentless economic pessimist who sold his personal stock years ago "so I can sleep at night," Mr. Lindsey nevertheless formed a strong bond with the optimistic Mr. Bush as his chief economic adviser in the 2000 campaign.
But colleagues said Mr. Lindsey always seemed ambivalent about his White House role as director of the National Economic Council, a post established by Mr. Clinton to coordinate economic policy throughout the executive branch. Some suggested that Mr. Lindsey, an expert on tax policy and the principal architect of Mr. Bush's $1.35 trillion tax cut, would have been more comfortable in the more combative, cerebral job of chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers.
In his last big interview, with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Lindsey touched off a firestorm in September with the suggestion that a war with Iraq might cost $200 billion, and the White House had come to see him as such a problematic public spokesman that he was all but muzzled. (Defenders said Mr. Lindsey was merely trying to make the point that however much a war cost, the economy could absorb it.) After a recent speech, a pack of reporters pursued him up a stairway to elicit only a terse comment on rumors that he might quit. "I have no plans to make any changes," he said. 
On Friday, many Democrats all but gloated at the forced resignations. Representative Edward J. Markey, the top Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, called them "welcome and long overdue," adding that the Bush economic team "has been an unmitigated disaster for the financial markets and the American economy."
Others argued that the economic team had mixed flawed messengers with uneven messages and that Mr. Lindsey's weaknesses and Mr. O'Neill's exacerbated each other.
"With the economy, a lot of it is projecting a level of confidence and control that produces good economic results," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. "It's not as hard bottom-line as people sometimes think. And unfortunately the president's economic team did not project that, even to their loyalists on the Hill and Wall Street."
Mr. Clinton's first-term foreign policy team had struggled with somewhat similar problems: Secretary of State Warren Christopher was not a compelling public diplomat, and the national security adviser, Anthony Lake, virtually refused to appear on television. 
"While I think this economic team has clearly had problems working together, I think the criticisms of Larry Lindsey have often been inconsistent and unfair for someone who was loyally carrying out the president's agenda, however much I disagreed with it," said Gene Sperling, Mr. Lindsey's immediate predecessor under Mr. Clinton.
The criticism of Mr. Lindsey was all over the lot. Economic supply-siders complained that he was not really one of them, and he disclaimed the label even as he championed big tax cuts. Liberals complained that he was too ideological. Politicians complained that his rumpled, jowly looks made him a face born for radio.
Kevin A. Hassett, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute who was Senator John McCain's economic adviser in the 2000 campaign, said Mr. Lindsey had not managed to carry his success as a campaign adviser into the White House job.
"There's no question in my mind that the economic team that Larry ran for President Bush during the campaign really helped him get elected, and was the best-run economic team probably ever," said Mr. Hassett, who was a graduate student at Harvard when Mr. Lindsey, 48, was an instructor. "They had quantity and quality, and any time another candidate came out with anything, before the position paper hit the reporters' hands, the Bush team had a more elegant and a better-thought-out rebuttal.
"To the extent there's been a problem with this team compared to other teams, it's that there's been so much controversy around Secretary O'Neill," Mr. Hassett added. "The secretary of the treasury is usually the quarterback, and if you have a football team without a strong quarterback, no matter how good the offensive line is, it's not necessarily a winning team, and it's easy for negativity to spread."
More than once, Mr. Bush himself was forced to smooth over public relations or diplomatic problems prompted by Mr. O'Neill, 67. Last summer, Mr. O'Neill upset President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil by suggesting that economic aid to his country could wind up being siphoned into Swiss bank accounts.
The president's relationship with Mr. Lindsey was far closer, especially in the beginning. They had known each other at least since Mr. Lindsey served in the first Bush administration, as an economic adviser and then as a governor of the Fed.
"He was the smart guy who was willing to give up his day job and come work full time on the campaign," one former Democratic official said, adding, "When George Bush was in danger of looking like a dummy on the economy, Larry was the guy who would patiently explain things to him."
Mr. Lindsey was often accused of being politically tone-deaf in advising Mr. Bush on dealing with Congress, although he has the opposite reputation among fellow economists.
"I think among economists he's viewed as very political, as opposed to objective," said Alan S. Blinder, a Democratic colleague at the Federal Reserve who is now a professor at Princeton. "But I wouldn't have thought being political is a handicap in his current job. 
"If you don't have good political antennae, you're going to fall on your face. In the pantheon of economists, when you get political, you lose credibility, but in the political world it's quite the opposite. If you're only a technician, you lose all credibility."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush discussed the federal budget at an Oval Office meeting in January with a group including Lawrence B. Lindsey, director of the National Economic Council, left, and Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, third from left. Mr. Lindsey and Mr. O'Neill were dismissed Friday. (Associated Press)(pg. 46) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: An Odd Couple's Unfortunate Legacy"The economy has struggled during the tenures of Lawrence B. Lindsey and Paul H. O'Neill. Graphs track the following categories: UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (Seasonally adjusted)DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE (Weekly closes)CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (Sources: Department of Labor; Dow Jones; Conference Board)(pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); BONDS (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL; TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (77%); TRENT LOTT (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; O'NEILL, PAUL H; PURDUM, TODD S 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



258 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Wage Peace With Talks and Money, Pleasing Asians 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
With war clouds gathering over Iraq, Japanese diplomats worked overtime this week to promote their nation as a superpower of peace.
 While welcoming the prime minister of Sri Lanka, Japanese officials agreed to sponsor a worldwide donor conference here next spring to help a 10-month cease-fire in that country grow into a lasting peace. With the president of the Philippines in town, Japan announced $12 million in grants to Mindanao, a predominantly Muslim region plagued by separatism and radicalism. Turning to Indonesia, Japan served as the host for an aid conference here to support a peace pact that is to be signed Monday between Jakarta and rebels in northern Aceh Province. 
 "The yen is mightier than the sword," President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines said here of her country's leading provider of foreign aid. "Japan's aid is important as a vital weapon for ensuring regional stability and security."
Meeting reporters at a different site, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe of Sri Lanka echoed similar thoughts. "This cease-fire was possible because Japan is meeting the humanitarian needs of the people in the north," he said, referring to an area long dominated by Tamil separatists. Noting that Japan is his nation's largest source of foreign aid, he added, "The cease-fire had to come with development, and this is where Japan has come in."
Tokyo's peace diplomacy is in overdrive partly because it aims to promote stability in lands neighboring sea lanes vital for Japan's oil imports. It also is active because Japan knows that if the day comes when Washington counts noses for an allied attack on Iraq, Japan's Constitution will keep its armed forces in a supporting role, at most.
"In the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, we thought the most important thing we could do would be peace consolidation," said Hatsuhisa Takashima, a Foreign Ministry spokesman. "Japan is not allowed to become a military power because of the Constitution, so the government of Japan decided to make its country a humanitarian power, a civil power."
In recent years, peace projects have included serving as the host for an international aid project for Afghanistan last winter and becoming the largest aid donor to Cambodia and the new nation of East Timor.
While the news media in Southeast Asia are transfixed by the rise of China, the region's leaders know that Japan remains the foreign aid superpower there.
"The major player today in our region is Japan, because Japan is more than one-half of the economy of the region today," President Arroyo said during her four-day visit here this week. 
Reviewing the $422 million in loans, grants and technical aid that Japan gave to Sri Lanka last year, Seiichiro Otsuka, Japan's ambassador there, noted, "China's assistance program to Sri Lanka is still very marginal."
While Japan's aid is increasingly focused on resolving the region's civil wars, its overall aid program is being undermined by a stagnant economy and an aging population that wants a greater share of government spending for its own needs.
Last year, Japan cut its foreign aid by 10.3 percent. Emboldened by a muted domestic outcry, Finance Ministry officials launched a trial balloon on Friday, telling reporters that they planned to cut next year's foreign aid budget by 8 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%) CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (56%) BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%) JAPAN (99%); PHILIPPINES (94%); SRI LANKA (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); ASIA (79%) JAPAN; SRI LANKA; PHILIPPINES; INDONESIA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



259 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE ECONOMY: THE ECONOMY; 
Matters of Taxes, War, Markets and Politics For an Economic Team

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush's new economic team will immediately be confronted with an array of decisions that could make or break the economy and determine whether Mr. Bush wins re-election.
 Some decisions will have to be made quickly: Should the president push for a tax cut to stimulate economic growth, and if so, what kind of cut? Should the administration negotiate economic policy with lawmakers or try to ram its program through a Republican-controlled but narrowly divided Congress? 
 Other decisions involve long-range policy: How large a federal budget deficit is acceptable? Should the income tax be replaced by a tax like one on consumption? Should the president press for legislation that would allow workers to divert part of their Social Security taxes into private investment accounts? 
Some of the most critical decisions facing a new treasury secretary and chief economic adviser will involve contingency planning: If there is a war with Iraq, how can the administration maintain confidence in the economy and stabilize financial markets? Who should become Federal Reserve Board chairman after Alan Greenspan's term expires in 2004? 
On Friday, Mr. Bush dismissed his treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, and the director of his National Economic Council, Lawrence B. Lindsey.
"This is a very treacherous policy world right now," said Kevin A. Hassett, a Republican economist who worked for Senator John McCain in the 2000 presidential campaign.
Bruce Bartlett, a conservative economist who worked in the administrations of President Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush's father, said the new treasury secretary and economic adviser would have to "worry not just about the state of the economy but about developing issues the president can run for re-election on."
A Republican lobbyist with good connections at the White House said that "this president and this White House fervently believes that the president's father lost re-election because he did not pay close enough attention to the economy," and that they are "not going to make the same mistake."
The problems are serious. All year, the president has insisted he will not be satisfied until every American who wants a job has one. But the employment situation keeps getting worse. On Friday, the government announced that the unemployment rate in November had reached 6 percent, as high as in any month in eight years.
The stock market may have bottomed out. But the drop in prices over the last two years has left many Americans with reduced value in their retirement accounts and diminished confidence in the markets.
The trade deficit continues to worsen because of the strength of the dollar and deteriorating economic conditions in Europe and Japan.
The budgets of almost every state and major municipality are in perilous condition. Spending by state and local governments now accounts for 12 percent of the national economy. Cuts by these governments could offset any lift to the economy advanced in Washington.
The new economic team will have to deal with these problems and will be charged as much with carrying out policies already set as with creating new policies.
For instance, preparation of the president's budget for the next fiscal year, to be submitted to Congress in early February, is already in the final stages. The budget is expected to show a deficit well over $200 billion in the 2004 fiscal year. 
This week, the Office of Management and Budget informed the departments and agencies more or less how much money they could expect in that fiscal year, which begins next Oct. 1. Next week, the budget director, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., plans to meet with cabinet secretaries to discuss their departments' budgets.
One aspect of the budget will probably be a tax reduction intended to stimulate the economy. But administration insiders say no final decision has been made about the elements of a new tax cut -- whether, for example, it will primarily be focused on investors or on consumers.
Within the administration, some officials are advocating a reduction in taxes on stock dividends, which would benefit investors. Others would refund part of workers' Social Security taxes, a step that would give lower-income taxpayers more money to spend. 
The new treasury secretary and economic adviser could be instrumental in making the call if they are picked soon enough. In any case, they will be responsible for shepherding the tax policy through Congress.
More important in the long run is the question of overhauling the tax system. Many in the administration, led by R. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, favor scrapping all or most income tax in favor of a tax on consumption, possibly one like the value added tax in Europe.
Whether or not the president ends up proposing a new tax system, the new regime in the Treasury will doubtless study the tax system intensively over the next two years -- possibly with an eye toward developing an issue for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. 
The economic officials will also face the question of whether to advocate a radical change in Social Security, the government's largest and probably most popular program. 
The president favors a system in which workers could invest part of their payroll taxes in private accounts that they could draw on when they retire. White House officials say Mr. Bush was encouraged that several Republicans who took this position were elected to the Senate and House last month, despite being accused by their Democratic opponents of placing the Social Security system in jeopardy.
The difficulty with the Bush proposal lies in the details. What would happen to retirees' benefits if markets go down and not up? How would the government raise the hundreds of billions of dollars it would cost to write checks to retirees while some of workers' taxes were being diverted into their private accounts?
These are matters that fall squarely in the purview of the treasury secretary and the chairman of the president's economic council.
So, too, does the question of addressing economic emergencies, when the treasury secretary would be on center stage. "There is the real possibility of a severe shock to the economy from war or another terrorist attack," said Robert A. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "Any new treasury secretary is going to have to be prepared to respond." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



260 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE OUTLOOK; 
A Signal Moment Ahead: Will It Slow March to War?

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
The arrival of Iraq's encyclopedic declaration of weapons data this weekend impels the Bush administration toward the last "off ramp" along the road to war. 
 Even as America mobilizes for a campaign to disarm and decapitate the Baghdad government, President Bush is facing final determination of whether the Iraqi arms declaration is an honest rendering -- a step toward disarmament -- or a capricious lie that establishes the basis for disarmament by force, a step Mr. Bush says he will take as a last resort. 
 Therefore the last off ramp -- the expression is a favorite of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell -- is the one that leads to a relentless United Nations inspection program, backed by a credible threat of force, that persuades President Saddam Hussein to surrender everything that could be construed as illicit weapons or the banned tools for making them. 
It may be wishful thinking that Mr. Hussein can ever change or abandon his ambition to lead the Arab world. But the question that clings to the capital like the first snow of winter is whether anything will be enough for Mr. Bush.
"Everyone in this town who claims to know the president's mind says he is determined to finish off the Saddam weapons of mass destruction problem and the regime," said Fritz W. Ermarth, who was chairman of the National Intelligence Council under the first President Bush and is now a resident at the Nixon Center. 
Still, he added: "We are at a colossally important milestone. How this plays out is extremely important for the international order, for the credibility of the United States as a power, and as a consensus leading power, or not."
Diplomats and statesmen were seized by the momentousness of the deliberations over Iraq. Many echoed Mr. Ermarth, saying decisions made in coming weeks will heavily influence the rules for security, war and intervention at a time of unrivaled American power. 
Yet most Americans seem to focus more immediately on whether there will be another military dash across the desert like the one the president's father ordered in the Persian Gulf war in 1991. Polling data shows that an impressive majority of Americans are game. They would like Mr. Bush to work within the United Nations system in confronting Iraq, but also realize that he may not be able to abide constraints on his goals for changing the Iraqi government. 
Mr. Ermarth, who used to make his living handicapping the likelihood of nuclear war and other great events for the Central Intelligence Agency, sees the possibility of delay and obfuscation by Mr. Hussein. 
"Saddam is playing for delay, and a lot of other international actors are playing for that, too," he said. Other nations, some close allies, want time to see what the inspections yield. Others want to see more intelligence on whether Iraq actually has the capacity to develop a nuclear weapon over the next five years. 
"We all know that Saddam is a terrible fellow," said Brian Urquhart, a former under secretary general of the United Nations. "But there is no real serious or credible information about his nuclear program." With inspectors now in Iraq, he suggests giving them the time to find the truth. 
At the United Nations, there was substantial skepticism that Mr. Bush was looking for an off ramp at all. Some officials questioned whether the administration, with its bellicose statements on "regime change," was trying to undermine the diplomatic and inspection track.
"There is a very fine line between showing a seriousness of intent and conveying the impression that you are going to war no matter what happens, and that fine line should not be crossed," said a United Nations official who spent the week trying to evaluate the statements emanating from Washington. 
What seemed new this season was that the president, in a prominent interview with Bob Woodward, extended earlier public remarks on how fighting terrorism would be the focus of his presidency into a broader vision that seems almost quixotic.
Mr. Bush described his presidency as one devoted to confronting the remaining despotic regimes in the world. He said he loathed Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, for "starving his people."
He told Mr. Woodward that "they tell me we don't need to move too fast" to take action to free oppressed peoples. "I just don't buy that," he said. "Either you believe in freedom, and want to -- and worry about the human condition, or you don't."
Those comments suggest that Mr. Bush is not engaged in an opportunistic whipping up of an Iraq crisis, as some of his critics allege, as a way to divert the country from a troubled economy. They also suggest that he might not be willing to take the last off ramp, even though a timely exit would allow him to pocket the credit for bringing Iraq back under United Nations supervision. 
The hawks in the administration are nervous, some experts say.
"They are nervous that he will not pull the trigger," said Michael McFaul, a professor of political science at Stanford University who has advised both the Bush and Clinton administrations on Russian policy. 
"They thought they were in the driver's seat," he said, adding that "now they are panicked" because they agreed to drive Mr. Bush to the United Nations. Their fear is that Mr. Bush will balk at writing unilateral rules of the new international game.
For now, administration officials seemed poised to make significant investments in an extended United Nations inspection effort. 
War could still break out, but Mr. Ermarth, asked to assess the odds, said, "By a hair, I would bet that things get dragged out." But there is always the winter after next. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); TERRORISM (65%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) TYLER, PATRICK E; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (78%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



261 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-22

Iraq Delivers Declaration; Hussein Speaks to Kuwait
Iraq delivered a 12,000-page declaration on banned weapons to the United Nations, meeting a deadline with more than 24 hours to spare. Officials said the documents confirmed that Saddam Hussein's government possessed no weapons of mass destruction and had no current plans to develop them. Mr. Hussein also delivered a statement on Kuwait, offering an apology to God coupled with an appeal to Islamic militants in Kuwait to join him in fighting the United States. 1

U.S. Buildup in the Gulf
The United States will soon have enough military presence in the Persian Gulf region to enable it to begin an attack against Iraq sometime in January, military officials say. 1

Venezuela Unrest Escalates
Political tumult and uncertainty escalated in Venezuela as enraged opponents of President Hugo Chavez demanded his resignation in the aftermath of a shooting that left three antigovernment protesters dead and dozens wounded. 16

NATIONAL 37-45

Panel Seeks Cabinet Post For an Intelligence Director
Leaders of the Congressional investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks plan to issue a final report calling for the appointment of a new director of national intelligence who would outrank the director of central intelligence, government officials said. 1

Bush's Struggle With Economy
It was hardly a shock that Paul H. O'Neill and Lawrence B. Lindsey became casualties of the administration's struggle to get a handle on the economy. Each drew criticism from left and right alike. 1

Democrat Wins in Louisianna
Voters rejected Suzanne Haik Terrell, President Bush's hand-picked candidate, and retained Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a freshman Democrat, in a close race. 37

Church Records Faulted
The chairman of a panel studying the sexual abuse crisis in the Catholic Church said that accounting for all individuals involved would be a challenge due to poor record keeping. 41

NEW YORK/REGION 49-57

Transit Workers Vote To Authorize Strike
The Transport Workers Union voted overwhelmingly to authorize a strike, even though New York State's Taylor Law prohibits strikes by the city's transit workers. The vote was in reponse to a dispute over a new contract proposing a wage freeze. 49

Firehouses Again in Jeopardy
Deputy Mayor Marc V. Shaw said the city will have to go ahead with plans to close several firehouses, and called an agreement to set up a commission to study the issue a "political punt." He also said the Fire Department was rife with inefficiency and its culture and that of the city's political establishment would have to change. 49

Plant Security Questioned
Security guards at the Indian Point nuclear plant believe they could not protect the plant from an attack, and said their supervisors discouraged them from raising security concerns, according to a report written early this year for the plant's owner. 49

Neediest Cases 52

OBITUARIES 58

EDUCATION 

Diversity in Creative Ways
Since a federal appeals court in New Orleans ruled in 1996 that the University of Texas Law School could not legally consider race in admitting students, Rice University, a highly selective private college, has developed creative ways of having a diverse student body. 1

Chess 56
Weather 41


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RELIGION (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); POWER PLANTS (60%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MARY LANDRIEU (57%); HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%) IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



262 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Governors Seek U.S. Aid 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Democratic governors will arrive here on Monday to plead for financial assistance from the federal government and to highlight their differences with President Bush on a wide range of issues, including health care, welfare and economic policy.
 With the White House, the Senate and the House of Representatives controlled by Republicans, Democratic governors say they will articulate an alternative vision of domestic policy, more liberal than that of Mr. Bush but more moderate than that favored by Democratic leaders of Congress. 
 The Democrats said they were particularly frustrated with Mr. Bush's refusal to consider an increase in direct federal aid for states experiencing fiscal crises caused by declining revenues and soaring health costs. 
Mr. Bush, who was governor of Texas for six years, named three former governors to federal cabinet positions and declared in February 2001 that he was "a faithful friend" to the nation's governors.
But that friendship has been strained as the states' fiscal problems have worsened. The Bush administration has, for example, opposed bipartisan legislation that would help states with the surging costs of Medicaid, the health program for 40 million low-income people financed jointly by the federal government and the states.
White House officials said the federal government, facing budget deficits of its own, had no money to spare.
Bill Richardson, the Democrat just elected governor of New Mexico, said he worried that two laws signed with fanfare by President Bush -- to set federal education standards and to bolster domestic security -- were imposing new requirements on the states without money to carry them out.
For years, Republicans have been critical of federal mandates, especially what they call "unfunded mandates." Now, Mr. Richardson said, Republicans appear to be imposing them. 
Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa, a Democrat who won a second term last month, said: "We appreciate the president's interest in education. Governors support the whole concept of school accountability. But financial resources need to be put behind that commitment."
Gov. Ronnie Musgrove of Mississippi, a Democrat who has repeatedly ordered budget cuts because of slumping tax collections, said, "At a time when most states are in fiscal crisis, we cannot afford to continue bearing the financial burden of mandates from Washington."
Democratic governors said they would make these points in discussions with Bush administration officials and members of Congress:
*The federal government should immediately release money to help police officers, firefighters and rescue workers cope with the threat of terrorism.
*The federal government should temporarily increase its share of Medicaid spending, an idea opposed by the Bush administration, and should take full responsibility for the health costs of the elderly poor who qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare.
*In renewing the 1996 welfare law, Congress should provide more money to subsidize child care for women required to work. Mr. Bush proposed a major increase in work requirements for welfare recipients but did not seek any increase in spending for child care.
*Federal officials should take quick action to stimulate the economy, perhaps through an increase in highway spending, which creates jobs. In February, Mr. Bush proposed a 28 percent cut.
Mr. Bush acknowledged the weakness of the economy on Friday, when he dismissed two of his top economic policy makers. But he did not say whether he would change any of his economic policies.
Both Republican and Democratic governors want more federal money and more leeway to spend it as they think best, but they pursue the goal in different ways.
On health and welfare issues, Republican governors have worked behind the scenes to negotiate deals with Republican leaders of Congress, and that partnership will continue. By contrast, said Ed Kilgore, policy director of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, the Democratic governors "will be more outspoken, more restive and more likely to confront the administration."
Some of the newly elected Democratic governors, like Ed Rendell in Pennsylvania, a former mayor of Philadelphia and former general chairman of the Democratic National Committee, have experience on the national stage.
J. Thomas Cochran, executive director of the United States Conference of Mayors, said governors struggling with fiscal problems could learn from Mr. Rendell's record in Philadelphia. 
"Through budget cuts and tough management, Rendell brought the city back from the brink of bankruptcy," Mr. Cochran said. "He illustrates a new breed of big-city mayor, more centrist and pro-business."
Kathleen Sebelius, the Democrat who will become governor of Kansas next month, has been the state insurance commissioner since 1995 and was president of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners last year.
She has sharply criticized President Bush's proposal to let business trade associations sell health insurance to their members, exempt from state regulation. Mr. Bush espouses the idea as a way to cover the uninsured.
But Ms. Sebelius said the proposal "would destabilize the small group insurance market, result in higher premiums for many small businesses and provide insufficient protection for consumers."
Democrats won governors' elections last month in four big industrial states long governed by Republicans -- Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin -- and in several states, like Oklahoma and Wyoming, that voted overwhelmingly for President Bush in 2000.
Many of the new governors identify themselves as New Democrats, committed to fiscal discipline as well as activist government. This group includes Mr. Rendell and Mrs. Sebelius; Jennifer Granholm in Michigan, the state attorney general for the last four years; and Janet Napolitano in Arizona, who has served as attorney general and United States attorney for the state.
Grover Norquist, a prominent conservative strategist, said "the Democrats will have to govern as moderates" in states like Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, where Republicans will control both houses of the state legislatures. "The Republican legislatures won't approve big increases in taxes or spending," Mr. Norquist said.
In the last decade, governors have been exceptionally influential in shaping federal policy on welfare, education and health care. Congress often took its cues from the National Governors Association and from Republicans like John Engler, the governor of Michigan since 1991, and Tommy G. Thompson, who was governor of Wisconsin from 1987 to 2001, when he became secretary of health and human services.
The governors' imprint can be found throughout the 1996 welfare law, which made the biggest changes in public assistance since the New Deal; the Children's Health Insurance Program, created in 1997; and the overhaul of federal education programs enacted this year.
"The Democratic governors will be engines of change and will influence policy discussions at the national level, just as Republican governors did so effectively in the 1990's," Governor Vilsack said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (87%); POLITICS (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (70%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (69%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (51%); CHILD CARE (50%); TERRORISM (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATES (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; WELFARE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL RICHARDSON (59%); TOM VILSACK (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002 



263 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Machine-Tool Orders Are Little Changed 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Orders for machine tools were little changed in October, matching a three-month high, an industry survey showed. 
 Bookings for domestic and foreign-made tools totaled $186.93 million in October, close to the $186.95 million booked the previous month, which was the highest since June, the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributors Association said today. 
 So far this year, machine tool orders are down 26.6 percent, and October orders were 0.6 percent lower than in the same month a year ago, the associations said. 
After seven months of expansion earlier this year, manufacturing contracted the last three months, the Institute for Supply Management reported. 
"Reports noting the current contraction of the manufacturing economy and excess production capacity for durable goods underscore the need for U.S. manufacturers to adapt to permanent systemic changes taking place," said Ralph Nappi, president of the machine tool distributors' group in Rockville, Md. "No doubt business will improve, but not to prior levels." 
Machine tools are used to make a variety of parts, ranging from tractor hoods to airplane wings. Tool orders rose in three of the five regions surveyed. Orders rose 17.9 percent in the Northeast, 13.3 percent in the Midwest and 4.9 percent in the South. Bookings decreased 17.1 percent in the central region and plunged 40.2 percent in the West. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DURABLE GOODS (74%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



264 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Fora Super Bowl in an insecure time, commercial themes that hark back to the tried and true.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
BUOYED by viewers' tuning back in to television traditions, Madison Avenue is anticipating that Super Bowl Sunday next month will live up to its superlative designation after two years of falling ad rates.
 Interest in Super Sunday sponsorships has increased -- along with the prices that ABC is charging to advertise. The average price for a 30-second commercial during Super Bowl XXXVII, to be held on Jan. 26 in San Diego, is up as much as 15.8 percent compared with the most recent Super Bowl, early in February. 
 The Super Bowl is typically the biggest day of the year for advertising as well as for football, as marketers spend an estimated $150 million to $200 million to run commercials before, during and after the game. Those spots are supplemented with print ads, promotions, online campaigns and publicity -- at a cost of tens of millions more -- all intended to stimulate viewership levels that sometimes climb to as high as half the American population. 
But for the last two years, the sour economy, the dot-com meltdown and the terrorist attacks combined to sharply depress the rates charged by the networks broadcasting the big game. In recent months, though, demand for commercial time on TV, especially on the major broadcast networks, has strengthened.
Also benefiting ABC and its struggling parent, Walt Disney, is an impulse among viewers to re-embrace the tried and true in uncertain times. Evidence includes the high ratings for coverage of most games so far this National Football League season. Big television events, like the season finale of "American Idol," have also done well. That trend ought to help attract viewers to the Super Bowl, regarded as a midwinter national holiday celebrated by gathering around the electronic hearth.
"Suffice it to say it's good to be in big-event television right now," said Ed Erhardt, president for customer marketing and sales at ABC Sports and its cable TV sibling, ESPN, in New York.
Mr. Erhardt and his staff have already been able to sell 85 percent of the 61 30-second commercial slots during the game. They have also peddled spots scheduled for prominent moments -- like after the coin toss, claimed by Charles Schwab, and during the halftime show, reserved by AT&T Wireless.
Though Mr. Erhardt declined to discuss rates, agency and marketing executives say they are averaging $2 million to $2.2 million for each 30-second commercial during the game. That compares with an average of $1.9 million in Super Bowl XXXVI.
The rates for the remaining 9 or 10 spots next month could reach the level charged for the Super Bowl in 2001, the executives said, which averaged $2.3 million. It is deemed unlikely they would approach the record set in 2000, when some commercials during the dot-com frenzy went for as much as $2.5 million.
The packages being bought by many Super Bowl advertisers include elements like commercials during the pre- or postgame shows on ABC; on college football bowl games on ABC; on shows related to the Super Bowl on ESPN; and interactive ads on the ESPN and N.F.L. Web sites.
"A number of companies now think of the Super Bowl as a marketing platform," Mr. Erhardt said, "as opposed to a place where they just run a spot."
One such business is Anheuser-Busch. In addition to buying the most commercial time during the game -- five minutes -- it will also run spots before and after, present interactive ads on Web sites and sponsor elaborate promotions in stores under the long-running "Bud Bowl" banner. 
Super Bowl commercials for Anheuser-Busch beer brands like Budweiser and Bud Light typically score high marks among consumers whose opinions are monitored during each game. But spots from many marketers misfire -- a disaster when so many people are watching such expensive work.
"You've got to deliver, nail it, boom, in 30 or 60 seconds," said Michael Sheehan, president at Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, which created a Budweiser commercial for the previous Super Bowl.
"It's not the best time to be edgy or make people wonder what they saw," Mr. Sheehan said. "It's a time for classic story-telling, entertaining viewers with humor and emotion. That's the recipe for being successful."
The masters of that recipe are usually found at the New York office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. They often create a third of all spots shown during the game for clients like FedEx; the Masterfoods division of Mars; the Pepsi-Cola division of PepsiCo; and Visa.
"This time, advertisers will be there with more enthusiasm" than was shown during the most recent Super Bowls, said Ted Sann, chairman and chief creative officer at BBDO New York. "You can feel the energy coming up behind you."
Here is a preliminary look at the Super Bowl ad plans of several advertisers. 
*Anheuser-Busch. The company is considering spots for brands like Budweiser, Bud Light and Michelob as well as to promote drinking responsibly. It works with several agencies, which besides Hill, Holliday include two Omnicom shops, the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide and Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco.
*H& R Block. A commercial will promote a tax-refiling service called Double Check, said Nicole Gibbs, a spokeswoman for H&R Block, which is based in Kansas City, Mo., and joined the ranks of Super Bowl advertisers in 2002. Agency: Campbell Mithun in Minneapolis, part of Interpublic.
*Cadillac. The luxury-car division of General Motors is returning after performing well with spots in February featuring music by Led Zeppelin. Agency: D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles in Troy, Mich., part of the Publicis Groupe.
*FedEx. A commercial is planned that is "more of a traditional type of ad," said Jess Bunn, a spokesman for FedEx in Memphis, that will be "funny, but not as edgy as we've been in the past." He declined to offer additional details. Agency: BBDO New York.
*Levi Strauss. A commercial for Levi's jeans, sold by Levi Strauss & Company, may appear. Agency: the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty. 
*Masterfoods. The division of Mars is not now scheduled as a sponsor, but is known for buying time at the last minute. The company has two spots for M& M's nearing completion, and one or both may turn up. One shows a humorous vending-machine mishap and the other salutes the Special Olympics. Agency: BBDO New York.
*Monster. For the fifth consecutive year, Monster, the job-search Web site operated by TMP Worldwide, will be a Super Bowl sponsor. Monster, one of the few dot-coms still being seen on Super Sunday, will aim a spot at employers as well as job seekers. Agency: Arnold Worldwide in Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas.
*Pepsi-Cola. "We're back in the big game, and it's not a big surprise," said Dave DeCecco, a spokesman for Pepsi-Cola North America in Purchase, N.Y., because it will be "our 18th straight year." Though he declined to discuss the lineup, the spots are expected to sell two newer soda brands, Pepsi Twist and Sierra Mist. Agency: BBDO New York.
*Visa. "We're certainly going to advertise again," said Joe Carberry, a spokesman for the Visa USA division of Visa International in San Francisco. "There are no details yet." Agency: BBDO New York.
That list is, of course, not complete. Some marketers that buy commercials prefer to discuss their spots closer to the game -- or not at all, if they want to surprise viewers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SPORTS (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (50%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (82%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (64%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (54%); ABC SPORTS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (82%); DIS (NYSE) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (64%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



265 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Allies Must Increase Aid to Balkans, A Panel Asserts 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
The Balkans remain a tinderbox for ethnic tensions and criminality three years after war there ended under a hail of American bombs, says a new report, which urges the United States, the European Union and international aid groups to play more forceful roles in rebuilding the region. 
 The report by the Council on Foreign Relations, to be released Monday, concludes that high unemployment, criminal syndicates, government corruption and continuing ethnic and religious tensions could make Bosnia, Serbia -- including its Kosovo Province -- and Macedonia destructive, destabilizing forces for all of southern Europe. 
 Without firmer supervision and more aid from Europe, the United States, the World Bank and other aid agencies, the region will increasingly become a major haven for drug traffickers, people smugglers and Islamic militants, the report says. Without more rapid reconstruction, it adds, the region's poverty levels will continue to rise, fueling mass migration into surrounding countries. 
"Neglecting these challenges will have severe and destabilizing consequences for southeast Europe," the report concludes. "It would be an especially serious blow to Europe, raising the specter of increased refugee flows."
But the report also contends that the United States has an important stake in rebuilding the Balkans because the region could become a major source of illegal drugs and anti-American terrorism.
Beyond that, the report says that a failure to establish long-term stability in the Balkans will feed criticism in Europe and throughout the Muslim world that the United States is more interested in making war than in keeping the peace. Critics contend that the United States should finish rebuilding not only the Balkans but also Afghanistan before it embarks on an invasion and a reconstruction program in Iraq.
The report was written by a 21-member task force led Edward C. Meyer, a former Army chief of staff, and William L. Nash, a retired Army general who commanded American troops in Bosnia.
The council's report recommends that Europe take the lead in rebuilding the Balkans and aiding their assimilation, using the carrot of admission to the European Union to encourage sweeping economic and political reforms that could reduce corruption, attract foreign investments and nurture democracy.
The North American Treaty Organization must also expand its efforts to restructure the region's militaries to help ensure that they are brought under civilian control, the report says. Like the European Union, NATO can use the enticement of affiliation to encourage reforms, the report contends.
The report also urges NATO to reaffirm its long-term commitment to maintaining peacekeeping forces in the region. NATO now has about 50,000 troops there, down from more than 100,000 a few years ago.
But the task force also asserts that the United States must play a vital role through its economic assistance and military presence. The task force estimated that the United States would spend $8 billion to $12 billion on military operations and $2 billion to $3.5 billion on assistance to the Balkans between now and 2010. 
The United States also provides about 8,000 troops to the NATO peacekeeping operations, though senior Pentagon officials have expressed a desire to decrease the number of American forces. 
The report urges against reducing either troops or aid, saying the United States sets the tone for other countries' policies toward the Balkans.
"The U.S. military is an essential deterrent to violence, and the United States is able to deploy additional force quickly if needed," the report contends. "The Task Force therefore believes that, for the next six to eight years, an active U.S. presence in the region will remain necessary." 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a recommendation by the Council on Foreign Relations that the United States and its allies provide more aid to rebuild the Balkans misstated the name of the alliance that was encouraged to expand its efforts to overhaul the region's military forces. It is the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, not North American.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ARMIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); RELIGION (76%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); TERRORISM (73%); REFUGEES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INWARD INVESTMENT (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ETHICS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (62%); POLITICS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%) COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); SERBIA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KOSOVO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%) BALKAN STATES; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



266 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Loss of Boom's Billions Sinks California 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
When times were good and billions of dollars in income tax payments were pouring in from high-tech millionaires, California lavished raises on state employees, expanded health care benefits for the poor, cut taxes on car licenses and invested heavily in education and transportation.
 Those days are over. 
 With its huge economy stalled and state revenues plunging, California has descended into its worst budget crisis in a decade and is now facing an excruciating round of budget cuts and possible tax increases.
State officials are proposing deep reductions in education, health services and other programs to deal with a budget shortfall that could total $25 billion in the next 18 months. 
"That's a hole so deep and so vast that even if we fired every single person on the state payroll -- every park ranger, every college professor and every Highway Patrol officer -- we would still be more than $6 billion short," said the Assembly speaker, Herb J. Wesson Jr., a Democrat.
Gov. Gray Davis announced a series of steps on Friday intended to save $10.2 billion to plug a deepening hole in the current budget and to serve as a prelude to even deeper cuts in next year's. Mr. Davis proposed freezing pay for state workers and warned of large-scale layoffs. As many as 200,000 people could lose their health coverage under the state Medi-Cal program. Payments to public schools and universities could fall by more than $3 billion. 
And that is just the start. In January the governor must propose a budget for the fiscal year beginning in July that needs to address an expected $15 billion shortfall in revenues. Mr. Davis has not yet proposed tax increases, but given the deficit magnitude, they appear inevitable.
Other states are confronting similar problems, but California's size and the bursting of the dot-com bubble make the problem worse here.
The political combatants are entrenching along familiar ideological terrain. The powerful employee and teachers unions are vowing to resist the pay cuts and job losses that the governor's plan will require. Republicans have pledged to reject any new taxes, saying that the Democratic governor and Legislature spent their way into the current morass and must find program cuts to claw their way out.
Democrats respond that the budget shortfall results chiefly from a severe drop in revenue from taxes on capital gains and stock options from the market run-up of the late 1990's and that those lost revenues must be replaced with new taxes.
In 2000, the state received $17 billion from taxes on capital gains and the cashing in of stock options, much of it from the technology industry. State officials estimate that the take from such taxes this year will be less than $5 billion.
California prides itself on its progressive income tax, with people earning high incomes paying a huge share of state taxes. The top 10 percent of filers pay 75 percent of personal income taxes. But when their income drops, as it did when the technology boom went bust in early 2000, the state treasury crashes.
"Nobody expected the loss of revenues due to the drop in the stock market to be as severe as it has been," said B. Timothy Gage, the state finance director. "Nobody anticipated the truly staggering extent of the hit we took. States have not seen such drops since World War II."
California, which generates $1.3 trillion in annual output, is the fifth or sixth largest economy in the world. (The state is just above or just below France, depending on the state of the Euro.) The current general fund budget of $78 billion represents about one-sixth of all state spending nationwide, but its current-year budget shortfall of $6.1 billion is fully a third of the cumulative state deficits across the country, according to a survey by the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Only five states -- Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho and Nevada -- are in worse fiscal shape than California as measured by deficits as a percentage of the budget. In dollar terms, no other state comes close.
Because the California state constitution was amended in 1988 to protect spending on education and because of rapidly rising health care costs, the state has few options for reducing spending to plug the gap.
Mr. Wesson, the Assembly speaker, said it was "mathematically impossible" to balance the state budget without raising taxes.
"The way you do it is to put absolutely everything on the table, every conceivable cut, every conceivable way to raise taxes," he said. "Then you sort out what is the least painful and what is the most fair."
James L. Brulte, the Republican leader in the State Senate, said that raising taxes would not only be insufficient to stanch the red ink but would also throttle growth when the economy is sputtering. 
State output fell by 2.3 percent in 2001, according to the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation. The group estimates that the state economy will grow by a listless 0.8 percent this year. The unemployment rate is 6.6 percent (the national rate is 6.0 percent) and is expected to be worse next year. Slow economic growth and rising joblessness cause state tax revenues to plummet and increase costs for social services. 
"You can raise the alcohol tax, the tobacco tax, the car tax, the income tax and sales tax and you still have a multibillion-dollar deficit," said Mr. Brulte, who represents Rancho Cucamonga and other bedroom communities east of Los Angeles.
He said the only thing keeping the state afloat was consumer spending, which continues to grow, modestly.
"Raising taxes on consumers clearly would be counterproductive," he said. "Raising taxes on business, when we actually need business to step up and start investing more so we can continue the expansion, would also be counterproductive. Anything that has the tendency to restrain either consumer spending or business investment will lead to an even larger deficit in California."
The problem is especially acute for county and local governments, which administer the programs that consume the bulk of the state budget -- schools, Medicaid (known here as Medi-Cal), welfare and public safety.
Local officials fear that they will be hit hard by reductions in state revenue-sharing payments and in shifts in costs now borne by the state.
"They just expect us to make up the difference," said Pat Leary, the lobbyist for the California State Association of Counties.
Ms. Leary said she hoped Sacramento would rescind the cut in vehicle license fees that was passed in the dot-com boom. The cut amounted to $4 billion a year, money the counties now badly need to provide essential services.
"We use it to pay for sheriffs and foster care and others things, and if we lost that, it would be devastating to counties, absolutely devastating," Ms. Leary said.
Local school officials are worried, too. While the constitution guarantees public schools roughly 40 percent of state tax revenue, the state has been spending more than that share in recent years, and Governor Davis said on Friday that the overpayments were about to stop.
Wayne Johnson, president of the California Teachers Association, said the state already ranked 38th in spending per pupil, with class size among the largest in the country. Any additional reductions "would just push us further down in those rankings," he said.
Governor Davis took office at the beginning of 1999, with the high-tech industry roaring and unemployment at about 5 percent. He used the increased state revenues to invest heavily in schools and highways and to expand state-financed health services for children and the poor. The number of state employees grew from 282,000 at the beginning of his tenure to nearly 326,000 in 2001, according to the California Department of Finance. The biggest job growth came in two areas, prisons and state universities.
Republicans argue that this spending spree caused the current fiscal crisis. Davis administration officials say that half the spending was on projects that did not permanently add to the size of state government. Yet the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst's Office projects that revenues are so far short of spending that the state will run deficits of $12 billion to $15 billion for the next five years even if the economy recovers.
In September, Mr. Davis and the Legislature approved several one-time economic fixes, including restructuring state debt and borrowing against anticipated revenue from the industrywide tobacco settlement of 1998. But those were just stopgap measures that offered no help for next year or beyond.
"Given this, there is really no easy way out of the current predicament," said Elizabeth G. Hill, the Legislature's chief budget analyst, "and this makes it all the more important that the Legislature take advantage of the alternative budget-balancing approaches and options available to it."
Those include deep cuts in programs, suspension of pay increases for state employees, elimination of special tax breaks for business and consideration of tax increases on businesses and individuals. Property taxes, which were capped by Proposition 13 in 1978, are not an option for new revenue, so many analysts expect increases in so-called sin taxes on alcohol, tobacco and gambling.
"California has a very liberal legislature and their easy answer is to pile more taxes on the business sector, which is already struggling," said Jack Kyser of the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation. "And it's not just business that is nervous," Mr. Kyser said. "County and city governments are scared half to death.
"It's not a pretty sight."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Democratic Assembly speaker, Herb J. Wesson Jr., right, and the Senate Republican leader, James L. Brulte, conferred over the California budget early last week. Gov. Gray Davis, center, faces a huge deficit. (Associated Press) Chart: "DOLLARS AND CENTS: Budget Crisis In California"Californias budget deficit is more than a third of the total deficits of all 50 states. A drop in revenue from capital gains and stock options is one reason for the shortfall. STATE BUDGET DEFICITS in billionsFiscal Year 2003 California: $6.1Other 49 states: $11.4 REVENUES FROM CAPITAL GAINS AND STOCK OPTIONS Chart shows revenues from capital gains and stock options from 1995 through 2002. (Source: California Legislative Analysts Office; National Conference of State Legislators) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); TEACHER UNIONS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); STOCK OPTIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



267 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Outside the U.S., Relief Over O'Neill's Departure 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
For two years, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has occasionally surprised and sometimes alarmed business executives and economic policy makers outside the United States.
 After Mr. O'Neill was asked to leave by President Bush and announced his resignation on Friday, the rest of the world responded with hints of relief over the weekend. 
 By musing aloud over whether the United States needed a strong dollar and by urging Latin American countries to make sure that foreign bailouts were not diverted to Swiss bank accounts by corrupt officials, Mr. O'Neill gained a reputation for off-the-cuff remarks that offended many people overseas. His defenders described him as delivering honest messages in blunt terms. 
But whether he was being candid or simply impolitic, he will not be widely missed. In Latin America, for example, "given the context of his statements on the region, people in the market are generally happy to see him leave," said Marcelo Carvalho, the chief economist for Brazil and Argentina in the Sao Paulo offices of Bank of America.
The response to Mr. O'Neill's departure was decidedly muted for three reasons. First, foreign governments said virtually nothing, adhering to a tradition of seldom commenting on personnel changes in the economic policy-making teams of other countries. Second, with no one named yet as Mr. O'Neill's successor, it was hard to assess how American economic policies might change.
Finally, Mr. O'Neill was generally perceived overseas as having limited influence, despite his title. His two most visible trips this year, to Africa and to the Indian subcontinent, involved addressing important but long-term issues of economic development, like the social costs of AIDS, rather than thorny policy questions.
Mr. O'Neill's departure was welcomed over the weekend in Asia. Most countries in the region have been unable to generate sustained growth in their domestic economies and have come to depend heavily on America's willingness to continue running record trade deficits.
His background as a manufacturing executive -- he came to the Treasury job from serving as chief executive of Alcoa -- made him suspect overseas. The American job losses associated with a strong dollar have occurred mainly in industries that have found themselves priced out of foreign markets.
Mr. O'Neill fed overseas concerns about America's willingness to let its trade deficit keep increasing when he questioned, in an interview with a German newspaper early this year, whether the United States needed a strong dollar policy. Mr. O'Neill later endorsed the strong dollar policy, which has helped the United States attract the constant flow of foreign investment needed to pay for the country's big appetite for imports.
Japanese policy makers in particular have been trying of late to drive down the value of the yen with respect to the dollar to increase Japan's exports to the United States. Mr. O'Neill's departure was quietly welcomed in Japan, although it is unclear what policy on the dollar may be chosen by his successor.
Takeshi Kiuchi, an economist for the Shinsei Bank in Japan, said that Mr. Bush's reshuffling of his economic team could be especially good news for Japan if it meant a renewed determination by the administration to expand the American economy. "Our future is hinged to the future of the U.S.," Mr. Kiuchi said. "An export-led recovery seems to be the only option in Japan."
With stagnation in the German economy, Europe's largest, Europe has also been looking to the United States to pull the world into a period of stronger economic growth. But reaction in Europe was tempered by a longstanding perception that Mr. O'Neill commanded limited influence in Washington.
While many Europeans have gradually come around to the view that Mr. Bush is a good manager who surrounds himself with good advisers, "Paul O'Neill was seen as one of the weaker members of his cabinet," said Steven Bell, global chief economist for Deutsche Asset Management.
In Latin America, frustration with Mr. O'Neill was not limited to his allusions to the region's history of sometimes severe problems with capital flight and corruption. Compared with the European Union, and even compared with the administration of President Bush's father, which negotiated the North American Free Trade Agreement, the current administration has moved slowly on free-trade pacts in the Americas.
"The Bush administration has not delivered to Latin America, especially on trade," said John Welch, chief Latin American economist at West LB in New York. "Latin America delivered on its promises to open up markets, but the U.S. has not held up its end of the bargain, except to Mexico." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); CORRUPTION (55%); JAPANESE YEN (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); ALCOA INC (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (77%) UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



268 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Long, Cold Hikes Envisioned If City Transit Workers Walk 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Crowds coiled around department stores, sidewalk Santas rang bells, Christmas lights glittered on the tree at Rockefeller Center. But behind the holiday cheer yesterday lay the specter of a transit strike, a city without the subways and buses that carry seven million people a day in and out like tides.
 To many New Yorkers, like Bernice Coffie, 28, a mother of two who rides the subway from the Bronx to work in a Harlem grocery store, the prospects of a strike were frightening. "There's no way I can take a cab," she said. "There's no way I can miss work. We haven't talked about it yet, but what would I do? How would we be able to get food? How would we be able to support our families?" 
 A transit strike is indeed a vision of human and economic chaos: of millions hiking or biking to and from work, of thousands of children missing school, of workplace absenteeism and people dying as emergency vehicles crawl in traffic-choked streets, of theaters and restaurants and retail businesses withering. 
New Yorkers old enough to remember transit strikes of the past recall the scenes -- Lilliputian hordes crossing East River bridges like invading armies in the mornings and retreating like refugees in the dusk; cars scrimmaging at every intersection; hotels jammed with suburbanites instead of tourists; commuters riding roller skates; subway train yards like branching fish bones, eerily silent.
It happened twice before in modern times -- for 12 days in 1966 and for 11 days in 1980 -- and it could happen again next weekend, with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, which represents 34,000 transit workers, at loggerheads over wages and other issues.
The union has demanded a 24 percent wage increase over three years; the transportation authority, facing a $2 billion deficit and the prospect of 25- or 50-cent fare increases, has called for a one-year wage freeze, with raises in the second and third years only if warranted by productivity increases.
The transit workers now average $44,000 a year; the average was $18,520 in 1980, when the fare was 50 cents, and $6,250 in 1966, when a ride cost a quaint 15 cents.
The two sides were so far apart yesterday that they did not even agree on when the contract expires and a strike might begin. The union said the current three-year agreement would end at 12:01 a.m. next Monday; a strike then would hit with maximum impact at the start of the workweek, and at the height of the holiday shopping season. The authority says the contract ends at 12:01 a.m. Sunday; a strike then would give commuters and others a day's breather to map strategy.
There were no negotiations yesterday and none are scheduled until Wednesday, although committees might talk today. But there was plenty of talk about strike prospects by officials at City Hall, and in the streets and subways where ordinary New Yorkers began to contemplate life without public wheels.
Officials of the Mayor's Office of Emergency Management said that a comprehensive plan to cope with a strike was in preparation, with contributions by the city's police, fire, sanitation and transportation agencies and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
The deputy commissioner for emergency management, Francis E. McCarton, would not give details. They were still being worked out in preparation for a City Hall announcement today by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his top commissioners, according to the mayor's spokesman, Edward Skyler.
The mayor, who was briefed on the plan last week and requested some changes, met yesterday with Michael A. Cardozo, the city corporation counsel, to discuss legal strategies for heading off a strike and dealing with one if it were not averted, Mr. Skyler said.
The state's Taylor Law prohibits strikes by public employees, including the transit workers. It calls for imposing fines or imprisonment on union leaders, fines against striking unions, loss of the dues checkoff privileges on which unions rely for collecting money from members, and loss of two days' pay for every day a worker is on strike.
Mr. Bloomberg, visiting Staten Island to talk about park improvements, said the Taylor Law would be fully enforced. "We will be in court," he said. "We will exercise every single legal remedy that we have to make sure first to try to prevent a strike." If a strike occurs, he said, "there will be serious consequences."
The mayor also reiterated warnings that a strike could cripple the city, severely damaging businesses and the economy, generating layoffs and declines in tax revenues and imposing heavy new burdens on a deficit-ridden budget to pay for police overtime and extra ferries and buses. He also emphasized that a strike could imperil lives.
"No. 1, people will die because of the gridlock that you will invariably have," he said. "The second thing that will happen is that the economy of this city will be devastated. The estimates are a $100 million decline per day in economic activity. That is going to translate, if it lasts more than a day or two, into layoffs throughout the city."
In the 1966 strike, business losses exceeded $100 million a day, police overtime and uncollected sales taxes totaled $72 million, theaters and restaurants lost 40 percent of their income, and $3 million in transit revenues went by the boards. In 1980, business losses were $100 million a day, police overtime and uncollected taxes were $47 million; 60,000 workers were laid off, school attendance fell by one-third and the 50-cent fare went to 60 cents.
On the steps of City Hall yesterday, City Councilman Hiram Monserrate, a Queens Democrat, and eight Democratic Council colleagues called on Gov. George E. Pataki to intervene.
"The reality is a strike would be absolutely devastating," said Councilman Bill de Blasio, of Brooklyn.
John Liu, of Queens, chairman of the Council's transportation committee, agreed. "We absolutely cannot live with a citywide strike," he said. "Millions of people will be stranded."
But some council members, including Joel Rivera of the Bronx, voiced support for raises. "What they are asking for is a fair pay increase, which is long overdue," he said.
Councilman David I. Weprin, chairman of the Finance Committee, noted that the city was still recovering from last year's terrorist attacks and now facing property tax increases of 18.5 percent. "With a post-Sept. 11 mentality and increased property taxes, there are already people leaving New York," he said. "A strike would be a major disincentive. We could see people leaving the city in large numbers."
Random sidewalk and subway interviews yesterday confirmed the obvious -- that a strike would be a heavy blow.
Larry Scholle, 55, a visitor from Cincinnati, whose daughter went on a $900 shopping spree in Chinatown, on Fifth Avenue and at Macy's, said the family had gotten about quite nicely with one-day subway passes. But he said they might not have come to town if a transit strike had been under way.
"We would have been paralyzed seriously without the subway," he said. "I definitely would have thought about canceling the trip."
Sarah Gowell, 59, who lives on 72nd Street on the Upper East Side, recalled the 1980 strike, but not as a casualty. "It didn't really impact me the last time," she said. "I walked to my job. But I felt really bad for those in the outer boroughs."
Elissa Lopez, 23, who lives in the northern reaches of the Bronx and rides the subway an hour each way to attend Baruch College in Manhattan, said, "It would just be impossible for me to get to school."
Amy Bernhardt, 30, who lives in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, and works as an exhibitions director in SoHo, said she had no magic carpet in case of a strike. "I'm going to be hoofing it across the Manhattan Bridge," she said. "How else am I going to get to work?"
Meredith Lubitz, 32, who described herself as happily unemployed, said she would ride out any strike in her East Village apartment. "Given the weather and the time of year, it's going to stink," she said. "I'm pretty much just going to be sitting around and watching TV."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarah Gowell, 59, who lives on the Upper East Side, said she walked to work during the 1980 transit strike, which gave rise to nightmarish traffic and a crush of pedestrians over crossings like the Brooklyn Bridge. She said she felt really bad for those in the outer boroughs. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); (United Press International, 1980)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); HIKING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FAMILY (76%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (75%); CHILDREN (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRODUCTIVITY; SUBWAYS; BUSES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



269 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: A Rising China 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The story of the Dai family in Nicholas D. Kristof's Dec. 3 column, "Will China Blindside the West?," was a timely reminder that economic development is dramatically altering the lives of China's citizens. 
 However, Mr. 
Kristof's claim that the West may be blindsided by a newly powerful China is far-fetched, since China's economic development has been the subject of intense Western interest since Deng Xiaoping put economic liberalization into first gear decades ago. 
 While the West isn't going to be blindsided by China's growing power, that power and the people behind it still deserve our attention. Despite the risks inherent in sharing a world with a rising China, we in the West owe people like the Dais our friendship, our compassion and our help in building a prosperous and humane society during this tumultuous time of transition.

MARTIN ERHARDT
Valparaiso, Ind., Dec. 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



270 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: A Rising China 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Having recently returned from central China, I know that Nicholas D. Kristof ("Will China Blindside the West?," column, Dec. 3) is right that gaps between rich and poor have widened there. He is also right that some wealth is trickling down, aided by continuing low prices for essentials. 
 But it is misleading to suggest that China's recovery of "pre-eminence" will result from Chinese authoritarianism and American insouciance. China's relative rise is more likely to stem from its commitment to peaceful development and America's self-inflicted wounds of imperial overreach. 
People in parts of Henan Province do face an AIDS epidemic, but they do not confront hunger because of economic sanctions or death from aerial bombardment. Another war in Iraq will only further discredit the West's claim to world leadership.

ROGER DES FORGES
Buffalo, Dec. 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (65%); EPIDEMICS (52%); AIDS & HIV (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



271 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Loans in Place, United Is Set to File for Bankruptcy Protection 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
The board of the UAL Corporation, the parent company of United Airlines, voted this evening to allow management to file for bankruptcy protection. The vote came shortly after bankers and lawyers for the company reached agreement on the terms of a loan deal that would allow the airline to keep operating in bankruptcy court, shielded from its creditors.
 The bankruptcy filing is expected to come Monday morning, according to people who were briefed on the company's plans. The 12-member board met this afternoon at United's headquarters here for a final review of the financing package. 
 United, the world's second-largest airline, would get $1.5 billion of so-called debtor-in-possession financing as it operates under bankruptcy protection. Of that, $800 million would be available 10 days after the filing, according to people briefed on the terms of the deal. Four lenders -- Citigroup, J. P. Morgan Chase, Bank One and the CIT Group -- would each provide $300 million, and Bank One would provide an additional $300 million to reach the total. That separate package provided by Bank One, which issues the credit cards linked to United's frequent-flier program, would make up a sizable part of the amount available after 10 days. 
Until today, it appeared that the lending arm of General Electric would be involved in the deal, but there were disagreements between United and GE Capital over the terms, said people who were briefed on the arrangements. GE Capital apparently wanted United to agree to terms related to loans and aircraft lease contracts that GE Capital already had with the airline. United refused because that would have set a precedent for negotiations with other creditors on similar loan and leasing arrangements, these people said.
That friction with General Electric, as well as some last-minute deal-making with Bank One on the separate $300 million package, pushed the financing talks through the night on Saturday and well into this afternoon.
"United and G.E. couldn't resolve those issues among themselves," one person briefed on the talks said. "They didn't need to resolve it, frankly. Everything was lined up."
This person said the involvement of the CIT Group, which joined the final discussions several days ago, meant that General Electric's money was not needed.
Debtor-in-possession financing gives United enough cash to keep up its operations in the early stages of a bankruptcy restructuring. The lenders get first claim on the airline's assets, ahead of other creditors. Later in its restructuring, United would have to look for exit financing.
A bankruptcy protection filing by United, which is 55 percent employee-owned, would be the largest by any airline and one of the largest over all, as measured by the value of its assets. Those are estimated at $24.2 billion, almost the same amount that Adelphia Communications had when it entered bankruptcy court in June. Adelphia's filing is the sixth largest in the United States.
Many industry experts have speculated that United should emerge from bankruptcy protection considerably smaller, but stronger. That is because United has the strongest worldwide route network of any carrier, as well as valuable assets in its landing rights at Heathrow Airport in London and at various Asian cities. Until American Airlines bought Trans World Airlines last year, United was the world's largest carrier.
But airlines do not have an easy time operating under bankruptcy protection, as history has proved. Of the major airlines that have gone into bankruptcy and emerged from it since deregulation in 1978, only Continental Airlines and America West Airlines are still operating. United's executives will be struggling to steer their company down that path rather than following Braniff Airways, Eastern Air Lines, Pan American World Airways and T.W.A.
When US Airways filed for bankruptcy protection in August, its executives issued optimistic predictions about its chances of emerging quickly from Chapter 11. But its unions have recently resisted giving further concessions, forcing the airline's major lender to threaten last week that it would withdraw its money and drive the carrier into liquidation if the workers did not comply.
One person close to United said the company would begin negotiating with its unions for deep concessions within days of a bankruptcy filing.
United's union leaders had tentatively agreed in the last month to give up $5.2 billion over five and a half years as United sought concessions to bolster its application for a $1.8 billion federal loan guarantee.
But industry experts say United will have to seek much deeper concessions, which could involve asking the bankruptcy judge to rid it of existing labor contracts and the current governance structure, which allows representatives of the pilots' union and machinists' union to sit on the board.
Lawyers for the company will ask the bankruptcy judge on the first day of the filing to allow the airline to keep up its operations at current levels. The court will then assemble a creditors' committee within a week or so. That committee, driven by a desire to see debts repaid, will have a large hand in the governance of the company.
GE Capital and Boeing Capital, the financing arm of the Boeing Company, are two of United's largest creditors and will undoubtedly seek to be on the committee. GE Capital has about $1.9 billion tied up in United, and Boeing has about $1.3 billion, according to people briefed on those arrangements. That money is linked to loans, aircraft leases and investments.
Boeing indicated in November that United was trying to renegotiate its payment terms. Aircraft values and lease payments have dropped by about 15 to 40 percent since the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, particularly on older planes, and United is most likely renegotiating with those numbers in mind. 
"That remains an open issue and we can't predict the outcome of those discussions," Russell Young, a spokesman for Boeing Capital, said in a phone interview today.
United is by far Boeing Capital's largest customer.
Most of Boeing's money has gone toward loans for new aircraft. That debt is primarily secured by about a dozen relatively new 777 planes. Each plane has a list price of $150 million and an actual price of $100 million. Those planes are usually used on more profitable routes, and it would generally be in United's interests to renegotiate payment terms rather than have those planes repossessed.
The company will have 60 days from filing to make payments or renegotiate terms. Otherwise, the creditors will have a right to repossess the planes. But if a creditor like Boeing took back planes, that company would have to redeploy them elsewhere, and that could be more costly than, for example, extending payment schedules.
"It will be an interesting economic thing," one person close to United said. "Is it in their economic interest to seize the planes?"
UAL was pushed to the edge of bankruptcy last Wednesday when the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, a federal panel set up to dole out financial aid to the airline industry after the Sept. 11 attacks, rejected the company's $1.8 billion loan guarantee application. One person familiar with that decision-making process said that United's estimate of its future revenue was two to three times the number that analysts for the board reached. And that person said the $5.2 billion that United offered in labor concessions was not solid enough because it included things like forgone future pay raises rather than real cuts, and it included provisions that would have moved pay amounts back up to 2000 levels in 2008.
The board also realized that United would have to start making pension payments of $1 billion a year starting about next year, the person close to the board said. Fitch Ratings, a credit-rating agency, was brought in to advise the board, and it gave the requested loan a low grade.
Speaking of Glenn F. Tilton, the UAL chief executive, this person said: "He was given bad financial and strategic advice. He put all his eggs in one basket." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (97%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); CIT GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (97%); GEC (LSE) (97%); GE (SWX) (97%); GE (NYSE) (97%); UAL (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); CIT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



272 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
2 Forecasts Due Today Project a Better Year

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Two forecasters are expected today to offer brighter predictions for advertising spending in 2003.
 ZenithOptimedia in London, owned by the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe, is forecasting that next year will bring an end to the advertising recession that began in 2001. 
Ad spending in the United States will increase 1.9 percent in 2003 from 2002, said John Perriss, the chief executive, led by the largest marketers' spending more, particularly on television ads. 
 The gain in 2003 will accelerate a trend that began at the end of this year, Mr. Perriss said, adding that he expected ad spending this year to increase 1.3 percent from 2001. Mr. Perriss is to discuss his forecast in detail at the opening session of the UBS Warburg media conference in New York.
Also at the conference, Miles E. Grove, chief operating officer and chief economist at the Barry Group in Bethesda, Md., is to present his improved forecast for ad spending in newspapers next year. Mr. Grove is predicting that newspaper ad spending will increase 5.7 percent in 2003, after declining 0.5 percent in 2002 and 9 percent in 2001. The gains for next year will be led by national advertising, Mr. Grove said, followed by retail advertising, with classified ads to gain strength by midyear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (93%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (58%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) MARYLAND, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



273 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Patience for the Short Term 

BYLINE:  By Roger Altman; Roger Altman, chairman of Evercore Partners, was deputy treasury secretary from 1993 to 1994.

 BODY:
President Bush will soon have a new economic team in place, and its first task will be to devise an economic stimulus package, which the president is expected to unveil next month. Republicans are eager for new tax cuts of upward of $150 billion. There's talk of accelerating personal income tax cuts and more cuts to promote business investment. Meanwhile, some Democrats are enthusiastic about a payroll tax holiday for middle and low-income workers. The expectation is that these stimulus measures will ignite the sluggish economy.
 But in truth, there is very little that a new economic team can do to improve the short-term economic outlook. We have moved into an era where the White House and Congress have no fiscal tools available to move this $10.5 trillion economy very quickly. 
 Pumping up deficits through quick, large-scale tax cuts or sudden increases in spending won't work. We've already experienced a big stimulus by swinging from a $200 billion surplus to a $160 billion deficit over the past two years. Adding more tax cuts -- and adding to the deficit -- will not have a significant positive impact.
Worse, the likely reaction in the bond market to a substantially bigger deficit would be negative. Moving to a $300 billion deficit now, possibly growing to a $400 billion deficit or more if there is a war with Iraq, would be seen as inflationary and would drive up interest rates on long-term securities.
Even without this impact on interest rates, a $150 billion package accelerating some of the Bush tax cuts and adding new elements like child credits won't improve the unemployment or growth figures much. Some of the tax cuts would be saved while the remainder would be too small to have much of an impact on an economy this size.
Besides, it's the investment sector that is weak now, not the consumer sector. The latter has been steady, with retail sales last month registering a gain. But business investment has declined in each of the past two years, in large part because the heavy investment in technology equipment in the late 1990's simply could not be sustained. Right now, the corporate sector is cautious on investment because of weak profits and poor stock prices. The temporary investment tax credits and temporary accelerations of depreciation being considered in Washington would not be powerful enough to overcome this caution quickly.
Monetary policy has been effective during the past year, but it is now spent. The Federal Reserve Board's overall cut of 4.5 percentage points in short-term interest rates has facilitated positive growth in recent months. Automobile and housing markets have stayed strong because of the lowest mortgage rates in decades and zero-percent financing deals on new vehicles.
But with the federal funds rate at 1.25 percent, there is little room to move on monetary policy -- perhaps another half percentage point at most. The Federal Reserve Board may have successfully avoided a real recession, but it can't now lift the economy up.
In other words, there is no quick fiscal or monetary fix under the present circumstances. There is always room for different tax and spending approaches for the longer term. But Washington could go to sleep for the next year without any real impact on our 2003 economic performance.
Still, the long-term outlook is favorable. Low interest rates and natural cyclical forces will overcome this slowdown. In time, the business sector will work through its overspending during the late 1990's and resume a higher pace of investment. The year 2004 could see strong growth, but more tax cuts now won't bring that on more quickly.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Martin Kozlowski) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); BONDS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); STATISTICS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); SALES FINANCING (69%); BOND MARKETS (66%); MORTGAGE RATES (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); RETAIL SALES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ROGER ALTMAN (56%) ALTMAN, ROGER C; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



274 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: For Governor's Third Inauguration, Moderation 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
Despite his impressive triumph in November, Gov. George E. Pataki is not planning to crow over the victory with a big inaugural ball, as he did at the beginning of his first term, his aides say. 
 Instead, the governor is planning a relatively low-key ceremony on Jan. 1: a Mass at Albany's premier cathedral, a swearing-in at a state auditorium and a party for 1,000 people at a nearby hotel. 
 The cost of the swearing-in ceremony, approximately $60,000, will be borne jointly by the governor's campaign committee, Friends of Pataki, and the committees of the two other statewide officials being sworn in, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and the comptroller-elect, Alan G. Hevesi, the governor's aides said.
The state will foot half the bill for the 2,500-seat convention center in the state office complex, the politicians the other half, with Mr. Pataki's committee bearing most of the cost. The receptions after the ceremony will be paid for by the political committees.
The governor plans a speech that will echo the theme of his campaign: a nonpartisan message stressing the need for New Yorkers of all political stripes to move forward together and meet the economic and security challenges of a world transformed by terrorism, said Michael McKeon, his chief spokesman.
Eight years ago, the governor's inaugural activities were among the most extravagant in state history. They included a lavish black-tie gala for 13,000 guests at what was then the Knickerbocker Arena in Albany.
But Mr. Pataki drew considerable political and legal fire for the way the 1995 ceremony was financed. His advisers had created two private committees to raise money for the inauguration and then refused to disclose the donors. When a judge ordered them to do so, it turned out many donations came from corporations doing business with the city.
The swearing-in in 1999 was a much more modest affair, and Mr. Pataki apparently intends to stay with that model this time around. 
This year's festivities will begin on Jan. 1 with a 10 a.m. Mass, celebrated by Albany's Roman Catholic bishop, Howard J. Hubbard, at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, a church near the Governor's Mansion.
The swearing-in will take place immediately afterward at the state convention center before an invitation-only crowd of about 2,500, Mr. McKeon said. Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye will do the honors. Mr. Hevesi and Mr. Spitzer, both Democrats, will also be sworn in. 
The governor will then hold a reception at the Crowne Plaza on State Street for about 1,000 invited guests, who will each pay $125 a ticket. The two Democrats plan a separate reception at a room within the convention center.
There will also be a smaller soiree the night before the inauguration at the governor's mansion for Mr. Pataki's closest friends, family members and supporters. A private swearing-in will be administered by one of Mr. Pataki's senior advisers, John P. Cahill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); RELIGION (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); JUDGES (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); TERRORISM (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); INAUGURATIONS; FINANCES; COMPTROLLERS; ATTORNEYS GENERAL 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); MADISON, WI, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



275 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: New Economic Policy 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
To combat the creeping uncertainty that underlies the current beat of the doldrums, here's what President Bush should do:
 1. Get off the defensive. "Things are not as bad as they look" is not exactly a grabber. Sure, productivity is up sharply and home equity is a bedrock bonanza, but the sense is spreading that the droopy way things look is the way they are. Forget blaming the Clinton bubble; focus on fixes. 
 2. Put one executive in charge. The apparent choice for inside man, Stephen Friedman -- a former Goldman Sachs dealmaker and Columbia U. wrestling champ -- is said to be an adept manager. But he should defer to the Treasury secretary as spokesman and leader, accountable to Congress as well as to Sunday-morning Savanarolas.
3. Launch the War on Uncertainty. You've already promised to make the tentative future tax cuts permanent; with control of Congress, you can now trump yourself and move many of them up earlier. Get rid of that weird sunsetting of the death-tax reduction that has rich grandpas worried about getting murdered by beneficiaries in 2011. Balance that with action to --
4. Make the retroactive extension of unemployment insurance payments the first item you request from the new Congress next month. The much-needed money will be spent right away on post-holiday sales, provide a morale boost and will show you care about the 6 percent out of work.
5. Assign your new Treasury chief the job of explaining the need for ending double taxation of dividends. Not only would middle-class investors get a better return on their investment, but this would profoundly change recent go-go corporate behavior. Today's option-driven executives use company cash to shrink outstanding stock or to buy other companies; but with individuals' dividends untaxed, corporations would have a new incentive to pay out more profits to their real owners. 
This would devolve more power to stockholders; they, rather than directors, should decide how to spend their company's profits, much as other tax reduction lets taxpayers, rather than bureaucrats, decide. Even class warriors would have a tough time opposing such investor populism.
6. Give losers a break. Double the amount of capital losses that taxpayers -- most of whom have had a rough couple of years in the market -- can deduct from income taxes. No need to reduce the tax on capital gains; the winners can afford it.
7. Give savers a break. Accompany the tax-freeing of dividends with other incentives to save, such as increasing the amount workers can contribute to an IRA and upping the caps on 401(k) plans.
8. Ignore 10-year projections of anything. The latest foolishness is the General Accounting Office's projection of a trillion-dollar-a-year budget deficit a decade hence, give or take a hundred billion; a couple of years ago, scientific-sounding estimates had us splashing about in a surplus of a trillion or more. Circumstances change; make no projections beyond the first fiscal year of your second term.
9. Speaking of politics, don't let Democrats push you into cutting the payroll tax, wellspring of the Social Security system. Instead, propose raising the standard deduction for individuals to relieve those of the working poor still on the tax rolls. Bolster Social Security with your long-promised proposal to enable workers to invest a small portion of their equity in a selection of mutual funds.
Space on today's tablet is limited to nine commandments. Wrap together a package something like this, involve a few committee chairmen, bundle it with a promise to veto excessive spending in light of the war, and launch it with confidence bordering on certitude in your State of the Union address. Then dispatch your new economic team to sell it to Congress and the nation.
One caveat: do not call it your "New Economic Policy." Treasury Secretary John Connally wanted to affix that label to the Nixon administration's midcourse correction, but was stopped at the last moment by a guy in the Library of Congress who remembered that was the name Lenin selected for his Communist turnaround in the 1920's. Tell your new team to come up with a name without baggage. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (88%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); MURDER (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ESTATE TAX (74%); BUDGETS (74%); INCOME TAX (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); US 401K PLANS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



276 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: Antiwar Veteran Eager for Battle 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
John Kerry of Massachusetts is a three-term United States senator with a resume steeped in foreign affairs. He is a decorated Vietnam War veteran who later became an antiwar leader. He is an articulate, telegenic and wealthy candidate known to savor a fight on the political field.
 But Mr. Kerry, who has put in motion the most extensive 2004 presidential campaign of any Democrat to date, also has a decidedly liberal voting record in the Senate that could be a burden in a general election against President Bush. He has a reputation, fairly or not (Mr. Kerry says not), for being stiff and aloof. He lends himself to caricature as the haughty Massachusetts liberal whom the Republican Party and the Bush family have made a sport of tormenting over the past 14 years. 
 For many Democrats anxious about the two years ahead, the critical question is which of these elements of Mr. Kerry's biography will come to define him in the 13 months leading to the Iowa caucus vote. 
Yet with many Democrats despairing over their potential field of presidential challengers, the unambiguous declaration by Mr. Kerry last week that he will run for president in 2004 has heartened some party leaders. They like the unusual prospect of a Democrat who can directly engage a Republican on national security and foreign policy, in an electoral atmosphere charged by the threat of war abroad and terror at home.
"I come to this campaign with a set of experiences that are directly relevant to the times that we are in," Mr. Kerry said, sitting in a wingback chair in his Senate office here the other evening, as Washington began to clear out in anticipation of a light snow storm. "And I think the issues that I've chosen to lead on, to fight on, are relevant to these days."
"The president nationalized this race on security, but in a vacuum," Mr. Kerry said, discussing his party's losses in November. "That can't happen as we go into '04. You've got a mano a mano -- you've got a head-to-head presidential race, and you're going to have opposing point of views. This race is about the country and the anxiety and the aspirations of the American people."
The last time foreign policy loomed as such a central issue in an American presidential campaign was 22 years ago, when Ronald Reagan unseated Jimmy Carter in the midst of the Iran hostage crisis. More than any of his prospective rivals so far, Mr. Kerry has built his early campaign on the foundation of his foreign policy views and credentials, as well as on the domestic issues typically associated with Democrats.
Mr. Kerry, who turns 59 on Wednesday, is surely the only senator whose office displays a photograph of him posing with John Lennon at an antiwar demonstration at the New York Public Library and another of him standing in military fatigues in the Mekong Delta. He served 10 months in Vietnam where he was wounded three times, receiving three Purple Hearts and a Silver Star. In the Senate, he has served 18 years on the Foreign Relations Committee and 6 years on the Intelligence Committee. 
"John Kerry in some respects is George Bush's worst nightmare," said Kathleen Sullivan, the New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman, who has not endorsed anyone in the race. "John Kerry is not going to let any Republican get away trying to marginalize his credentials as a patriot. It's going to be very difficult for some folks in Washington who did what they could to avoid serving in Vietnam."
He has a lot of money, too. Beyond an unused $3.1 million in his Senate campaign account, which his aides say could be used for a presidential campaign, he is married to Teresa Heinz, the wealthy widow of Senator John Heinz, an heir to the Heinz food fortune. Although Mr. Kerry said he intended to abide by the limits of the nation's campaign finance law, he left himself an opening to tap his wife's fortune if "something dramatic takes place in some sort of underhanded, extraordinary way in which they would attack us personally."
Still, for all those evident advantages, some Democrats expressed concern that Mr. Kerry would present a tempting target to this White House, inviting the kind of ideological and regional derision that has proved so effective against other Massachusetts Democrats who wanted to be president.
Republicans are poised to portray Mr. Kerry as more of a Dukakis than a Kennedy -- even though Mr. Kerry seems to have gone to some lengths to evoke the Kennedy legacy with his elaborate shock of styled hair and frequent references to John F. Kennedy. Mr. Kerry served as lieutenant governor to Michael S. Dukakis, the former governor of Massachusetts who lost to the first President George Bush in a brutal campaign in 1988.
"He's vulnerable on the criticism that he's a Massachusetts liberal," said Dick Harpootlian, the South Carolina Democratic chairman. "I think that this White House has been very adept at labeling people, and that's a concern. Is it something that he can overcome? Sure."
Mr. Dukakis, who today is a professor of political science at Northeastern University, said in an interview that there were lessons in how Mr. Bush's father had systematically unraveled him.
"We all learned in '88 -- these guys will attack you," Mr. Dukakis said. "They'll attack you early and often, and there's no sense in being under any illusions. If we learned anything from '88 it is that you've got to be ready for it. It's going to be coming."
Mr. Kerry said he was eager for battle in a way that other Democrats had not been. "You've got to fight back," he said. "If you're not willing to defend yourself, the American people are not going to trust that you're going to defend the nation."
In laying the groundwork for his candidacy, Mr. Kerry has moved aggressively to resist efforts by his opponents to tie him down ideologically. For example, he was quick in an interview to note that he is a former prosecutor and had voted for free trade legislation, restrictions on welfare benefits and eligibility, and the Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction bill. He shook his head vigorously in response to the suggestion from some Democrats that the correct response to his party's defeat this fall was to return to the left.
He has at times appeared to be trying to muddy the water on some complicated issues. For example, more than a few Democrats said, after he appeared on the NBC program "Meet the Press," that they had difficulty determining precisely what his views were on White House efforts to oust Saddam Hussein.
And in the interview Mr. Kerry parried efforts to characterize him ideologically. "This is not a debate about left and right," he said. "This is a debate about basic issues, and what common sense tells us we need to do in this country. Define me by the things I fight for and do. Labels are silly in modern American politics."
Still, by any measure, Mr. Kerry is on the left side of the ideological spectrum in Congress. He favors gun control, abortion rights and a higher minimum wage. He opposed the first resolution authorizing President Bush's father to move against Saddam Hussein, citing public ambivalence about going to war. (He voted for the Iraq resolution this time.)
He denounced President Bush's tax cuts as "unfair, unaffordable and unquestionably ineffective in growing our economy," saying that tax cuts for the wealthy should be replaced with tax cuts for the middle class and an expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit for working poor families.
Mr. Kerry strongly opposes the death penalty and insists this position would not hurt him in a general election campaign. "It is a phony, bogus, red herring issue that has no place in a presidential race," he said, "because there is nothing the president of the United States is going to do with respect to this issue."
But the past 50 years of presidential campaigns would appear to suggest otherwise. The last president of either party who opposed the death penalty was Lyndon B. Johnson. One of the ways Mr. Bush's father won election was by highlighting Mr. Dukakis's stance against executions.
And many Democrats contend that the issue could have a particular resonance in this race, because of terrorism. Mr. Kerry said he favored the death penalty for terrorists -- but voted in 1989 against such legislation for terrorists who kill Americans abroad. That position seems likely to find its way back onto the public stage in the campaign ahead.
If there is one other note of worry -- or perhaps curiosity -- being sounded by Democrats about a Kerry candidacy, it revolves around the style of both the candidate and his wife. If Mr. Kerry is cool and reserved, Ms. Heinz is known in Washington for her candid and outspoken ways -- though some Democrats suggest her manner, which has included bickering with her husband in front of a Washington Post reporter, might better be described as impolitic.
"She has her opinions and I'm proud of that," Mr. Kerry said. "I think when people get to know her -- I think that has to be put to bed once and for all. I look forward to the somebody writing about her for the person she really is: she is a passionate, deeply involved caring person."
As for Mr. Kerry?
"Maybe it comes from having a craggy face and being six-foot-four and a big shock of hair or something," he said. 'But I laugh at myself all the time around here. Ask the people who know me best and I think you'll find I'm a kind of guy who is capable of hugging somebody who lost somebody and crying with them, and laughing outrageously and going out and having a good time."

PROFILE
John Forbes Kerry

BORN: Dec. 11, 1943, Denver.

FAMILY: Married to Teresa Heinz, chairman, Howard Heinz Endowment. Two daughters from a previous marriage.

EDUCATION: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.; B.A., Yale University; J.D., Boston College Law School.

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: United States Navy, 1966-70; assistant district attorney, Middlesex County, Mass., 1977-82; lieutenant governor of Massachusetts, 1983-85; United States Senate 1985 to present.

FAVORITE PRESIDENT: Abraham Lincoln. "Abraham Lincoln saved the Union. We wouldn't be the United States had he not summoned the greatest courage imaginable during the toughest period in our history."

LEGISLATIVE HIGHLIGHTS: Played a significant role leading to the lifting of the United States trade embargo on Vietnam in 1994; joined Senator John McCain in an investigation that concluded there was no compelling evidence of prisoners of war still alive in Vietnam; among the leaders in the legislative battle to block drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; helped write airport security legislation that put the federal government in charge of hiring and managing airport security workers; was involved in the Congressional investigation that helped expose fraud at the Bank of Credit and Commerce International, which was closed in 1991 after being linked to secret weapons deals and terrorist financing; sponsored a federal youth bill program that allowed young adults to obtain high school diplomas while learning constructions skills building housing for the homeless.
This is the first in a weekly series of articles about the prospective candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts has built his early presidential campaign on his foreign policy views and credentials, as well as on the domestic issues typically associated with Democrats. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); VETERANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



277 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10, 14

Iraqi Says Arms Are Gone, But Hints at a Bomb Effort
A top adviser to President Saddam Hussein of Iraq challenged the United States and Britain to produce evidence that Iraq still has any weapons of mass destruction or programs to develop them, but implied that Iraqi scientists had come close to building at least one atom bomb in 1991. A1

Iraqi Documents Arriving
Iraq's declarations on its weapons programs arrived at United Nations offices, and arms experts have begun trying to determine whether the material reveals any illegal activity. A12

U.S. Courts Turkish Leader
The leader of Turkey's governing party, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is coming to the White House for a meeting with President Bush. The United States is eager to shore up ties with Mr. Erdogan and secure his support in the event of war with Iraq. American officials said they were confident that the United States would eventually secure access to air bases in Turkey. A1

Al Qaeda Claims Kenya Attacks
A statement that appears to be from a spokesman for Al Qaeda claims responsibility for the recent attacks in Kenya and vows that the terror network will carry out even more "lethal" assaults against Israel and the United States. A13

Woman Killed in Gaza Strip
In the Gaza Strip, Israeli soldiers killed a Palestinian woman and wounded her three children as they walked near an Israeli settlement. Two Israeli soldiers were wounded on the Israel-Lebanon border. Lebanon's Hezbollah guerrilla group was blamed for the attack, but denied any connection. A6

Bangladesh Bombing Arrests
The authorities in Bangladesh arrested dozens of opposition militants after bombs exploded in movie theaters, killing 17 people as families celebrated the end of Ramadan. A6

Indian Ex-Minister Found Dead
A former state minister kidnapped three months ago by India's most notorious bandit was found dead in the southern state of Karnataka. A6

Chavez Pledges Oil Control
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, facing a battle with opponents whose nationwide strike has nearly paralyzed oil production, vowed to retake control of the oil industry. A5

NATIONAL A15-24

President Said to Choose Rail Executive for Treasury
John W. Snow, chairman of the CSX Corporation, has emerged as President Bush's choice to replace Paul H. O'Neill as Treasury secretary, a person with ties to the administration said. A1

Mr. O'Neill's resignation was met with hints of relief by business executives and economic policy makers outside the United States. A20

Budget Woes in California
California is facing budget cuts and possible tax increases in its worst budget crisis in a decade. A21

Pressure Mounts on Cardinal
Cardinal Bernard F. Law abruptly canceled his schedule and flew to Rome as anger toward him mounted and some priests signed a draft of a letter calling for his resignation. A15

Silver Lining for Democrats
Democrats found a ray of sunshine in the unexpected victory of Senator Mary L. Landrieu over a Republican challenger who had been bolstered by the White House. A15

Gun Dealer Broke Laws
The Tacoma, Wash., gun store that supplied the rifle used in the Washington-area sniper attacks was allowed to stay in business despite four investigations by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, according to court records. A19

Christmas Tree Ban in Yosemite
There will be no real Christmas trees or evergreen decorations at Yosemite National Park's hotels because of a crackdown on fire hazards. A15

EDUCATION
Radicals' Son a Rhodes Scholar
This year's list of Rhodes scholarship recipients includes Chesa Boudin, a student at Yale whose parents, members of the 1970's radical group Weathermen, have been in prison since he was 14 months old. A1

Survey on Leadership
The number of women tapped to become college presidents has leveled off in recent years, according to a survey of more than 2,500 two- and four-year institutions. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Negotiations Continue As City Braces for Strike
With a transit strike looming, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, which represents 34,000 transit workers, continued to negotiate over wages and other issues. Officials at the Mayor's Office of Emergency Management said that a plan to cope with a strike was being prepared. A1

Mayor to Focus on Housing
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose public policy agenda has been eclipsed lately by the city's fiscal woes and the threat of a transit strike, is planning to shift his attention somewhat to the physical state of New York City, particularly its housing. B1

Low-Key Inauguration Planned
Gov. George E. Pataki is not planning to crow over his recent electoral victory with a big inaugural ball, as he did at the beginning of his first term, his aides say. Instead, the governor is planning a relatively small ceremony on Jan. 1: a Mass at Albany's premier cathedral, a swearing-in at a state auditorium and a party at a nearby hotel. B3

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Jets Over Buffalo
The Jets beat the Broncos, 19-13, keeping their playoff hopes alive with three games remaining. D1

Giants Beat Redskins
The Giants defeated Washington, 27-21. The Giants (7-6) need Philadelphia or Atlanta to crumble to have any chance at the playoffs. D1

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES A25

Jimmy Caras
The four-time billiards world champion was 93. He won the world titles in 1936, '38, '39 and 1949, then returned from semiretirement to win the United States Open in 1967. A25

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

United Obtains Financing
The board of UAL, the parent company of United Airlines, has voted to allow management to file for bankruptcy protection. The vote came shortly after bankers and lawyers reached agreement on the terms of a $1.15 billion loan deal that would allow the airline to keep operating. A17

Examining Enron Deals
Congressional investigators are examining a series of undisclosed deals between Enron and Citigroup that raise questions about whether the bank ignored its guidelines and sidestepped accounting requirements in order to satisfy a client, according to people involved in the inquiry. C1

I.B.M. vs. Microsoft, Again
I.B.M.'s plan to pay $2.1 billion for Rational Software, a supplier of software tools, is another step in I.B.M.'s drive to build its prowess in software based on Internet standards. In so doing, I.B.M. continues a decades-long rivalry by positioning itself as the main challenger to Microsoft. C1

A team of I.B.M. researchers plans to report on what would be the world's smallest transistor when they deliver a research paper this week at an industry meeting. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Destroying weapons of terror; rollback on forest law; mice as a measure of man; the commuter's fair share.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E4
Weather B8
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (85%); BUDGETS (84%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TAX LAW (70%); HEZBOLLAH (70%); FAMILY (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (65%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); ARMED FORCES (65%); STRIKES (64%); RAMADAN (63%); RELIGION (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (81%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (81%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (69%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) IRAQ (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (93%); TURKEY (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KENYA (92%); LEBANON (92%); BANGLADESH (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



278 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Envisions Housing Revival Unmatched Since the 80's 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose public policy agenda has been eclipsed lately by the city's fiscal woes and the threat of a transit strike, is planning to shift some of his attention this week to the physical condition of New York City, particularly its housing.
 In the first of two major speeches on the subject, Mr. Bloomberg tomorrow will lay out his administration's vision for creating roughly 60,000 housing units throughout the five boroughs over the next four years. The proposals would cost hundreds of millions of dollars in state, federal and city funds -- some of it currently earmarked for other uses -- and millions more in private investment. 
The housing Mr. Bloomberg envisions ranges from heavily subsidized apartments for those who have AIDS and other special needs, to homes for middle-income residents to costly market-rate apartments, city officials said. 
Some of it would depend on rezoning industrial areas and reclaiming brownfields, contaminated former industrial sites.
In tomorrow's address, to the New York and National Housing Conference, the mayor will also put forth an ambitious agenda for developing the city's waterfront, which has failed to make the same transformation from industrial to residential as other urban waterfronts in the Northeast.
On Thursday, in an address to the Association for a Better New York, Mr. Bloomberg will present his vision for Lower Manhattan, which includes additional housing, some of which could resemble the Battery Park City development.
That plan also includes the creation of major thoroughfares to connect downtown neighborhoods and improvements with existing parks, in an effort to attract more residents to downtown.
The last mayor to put forth such an ambitious housing agenda was Edward I. Koch, whose administration ceded city ownership of scores of abandoned buildings in the 1980's so they could be rehabilitated by the private sector and used for tens of thousands of housing units. Generally, though, the city's housing production has fallen, to about 83,000 units in the 1990's from 360,000 during the 1960's, according to Joseph Weisbord, staff director for Housing First!, an advocacy group.
But Mr. Bloomberg's situation more closely resembles that of Mayor Fiorello La Guardia, who had big dreams of improving the city's infrastructure at a time of national economic depression. Mayor La Guardia turned to President Franklin D. Roosevelt to help pay for many of his urban renewal ideas; Mr. Bloomberg is hoping to use a mix of financing from various government entities, including tax-free federal bonds issued after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, to fulfill his housing agenda.
"The mayor, through the creative use of funding sources available to the city, is setting an ambitious housing agenda that we will aggressively pursue," Mr. Bloomberg's communications director, William T. Cunningham, said.
For months, the mayor has spoken about his desire to have housing as a major component of the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan. The plans that Mr. Bloomberg will outline to A.B.N.Y. focus very little on the World Trade Center site and its surroundings other than as part of a much larger area that stretches south from Houston between the Hudson and East Rivers.
Mr. Bloomberg is expected to sketch out many options for that area, including relocating cultural institutions as neighborhood anchors, opening libraries, improving parks and adding other amenities.
The mayor also plans to explore the possibility of expanding streets like Fulton, Greenwich and West into major thoroughfares that would connect neighborhoods. Mr. Cunningham and other city officials would not reveal many specifics of Mr. Bloomberg's proposals, but said that a major focus for Lower Manhattan would call for housing along the East River south of the Brooklyn Bridge.
At a recent State Assembly hearing, Mr. Bloomberg's transportation commissioner, Iris Weinshall, said that the city was considering demolishing Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive south of the bridge to provide easier access to the East River waterfront and any housing units that would be built there. "The East River waterfront is an important element of any plan to rebuild Lower Manhattan," Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said.
Mr. Bloomberg's call for more housing in Lower Manhattan has gained supporters in recent months after plans for the trade center site focusing on expansive office space were widely rejected. The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation will release a new set of plans on Dec. 18. Officials said they hoped that such housing could be paid for in part with the $750 million in Liberty Bonds the federal government authorized for New York after 9/11.
Included in the 60,000 housing units the mayor will propose are 40,000 units from the rehabilitation of buildings under control of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. The rest would be new private-sector construction, much of it envisioned along the city's waterfront, officials said.
Since his campaign days, Mr. Bloomberg has talked about developing brownfields in all the boroughs. Such development has been stymied for years because bills that would protect developers from lawsuits associated with the sites -- similar to those passed in other states -- have failed to get through the Legislature in Albany.
Particularly ripe for development, brownfields experts say, are parcels along the city's vast shoreline and the site of a former natural gas plant along the Gowanus Canal in Carroll Gardens.
"There are things that the city can do to stimulate the cleanup of these sites," said Kathryn Wylde, the president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, a business group that has studied brownfields development. "There are ways the city can indemnify developers, or get the original polluters to indemnify developers or to secure them against possible risk. Cleaning up these sites is a time-consuming and difficult process. You need a public-private partnership to do that."
The city can help developers by persuading the state to expedite cleanups and by seeking federal grants or environmental bond funds for such work. In other cases, private developers might agree to pay cleanup costs if the city were to help them quickly secure the property.
Mr. Bloomberg is also expected to propose changes to zoning laws that would loosen restrictions on where developers can put residential buildings. "In some cases, the city can open the door so that the private sector can come in and build," Mr. Cunningham said.
The city is already revising its building code, and is expected to explore other possible changes to the cumbersome regulatory process that governs residential building. Officials said Mr. Bloomberg would follow through on a campaign promise to explore the possibility of offering developers vacant city-owned land in lieu of direct cash subsidies. "Where it is possible to clear out the obstacles in some instances, be they bureaucratic or physical, we will," Mr. Cunningham said.
Mr. Bloomberg's proposals are also expected to touch on the city's homeless population, and the difficulties in finding permanent housing for people once they leave the shelter system for the homeless.
Neither Mr. Cunningham nor other administration officials would reveal specific details about funding for the housing initiatives. Besides Liberty Bonds, which offer tax advantages to both developers and buyers, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation has about $1.3 billion administered through the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development that has not yet been allocated. But Mr. Bloomberg would likely face a fight over that money because state officials want to see it used for transportation projects in Lower Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg, who gave a speech on Saturday about the city's fiscal crisis, will turn his attention this week to his housing initiatives. (John-Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ZONING (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); BROWNFIELD SITES (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); TERRORISM (60%); BOND ISSUES (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) HOUSING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ZONING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOUSING CONFERENCE (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



279 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Presidential Prospects
A weekly series about the prospective candidates for the 2004 Democratic presidential nomination begins with Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, a wealthy candidate with a decidedly liberal voting record. PAGE A24

Rising Criticism of Cardinal
Cardinal Bernard F. Law of Boston flew to Rome as anger mounted about his handling of abuse cases and some priests signed a letter calling for his resignation. PAGE A15

Citigroup-Enron Inquiry
Congressional investigators are examining a series of undisclosed deals between Citigroup and Enron, according to people involved in the inquiry. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Mayor to Focus on Housing
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose public policy agenda has been eclipsed by the city's fiscal woes, plans to shift some of his attention to the city's housing. PAGE B1

Parched Central Asia
A shrinking water supply and a legacy of waste create a threat of social and economic crisis in Central Asia, already troubled by oppressive rule and insurgencies. PAGE A14

GRAPHIC: Photo (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (66%); RESIGNATIONS (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (85%); ASIA (85%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



280 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: BUSH SAID TO PICK CHIEF OF RAILROAD FOR TREASURY JOB 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
John W. Snow, chairman of the CSX Corporation, has emerged as President Bush's choice to replace Paul H. O'Neill as Treasury secretary, a person with ties to the administration said tonight.
 Mr. Snow is an economist and a lawyer who has run CSX, one of the nation's largest railroad companies, since 1991. He served in a variety of posts in the Ford administration, including as assistant secretary of transportation, and is a former chairman of the Business Roundtable, which represents the chief executives of the nation's largest companies in Washington policy debates. 
 Mr. Snow, 63, has been outspoken this year in calling for improved business ethics in corporations, an important consideration for an administration that came under intense pressure to deal with the fallout from scandals involving Enron and other big companies.
Assuming he passes final background checks and is nominated by Mr. Bush, Mr. Snow will be taking a position that will be crucial to the White House's efforts to pass a new economic stimulus package and to insulate itself from the political risk of a weak economy in the 2004 presidential race.
A White House spokesman declined to comment. Dan Murphy, a spokesman for CSX, said the company had no information about Mr. Snow's plans.
Mr. Snow's background, combining business and government experience with a Ph.D. in economics, met the criteria set out by the administration as it searched for a replacement for Mr. O'Neill, who resigned on Friday under pressure from the White House. In addition, Mr. Snow's service in the Ford administration would have exposed him to several top officials of the current administration, including Vice President Dick Cheney, who was chief of staff in the Ford White House.
Mr. Bush is also close to naming a replacement for Lawrence B. Lindsey, who resigned on Friday as chairman of the White House's National Economic Council. Republican officials said the president was all but certain to select Stephen Friedman, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, the investment firm, to take Mr. Lindsey's place.
Former colleagues described Mr. Friedman as a consensus builder and strong manager. They said he would be a good choice to address concerns in the White House that the council had been poorly managed under Mr. Lindsey and ineffective at coordinating economic policy between the cabinet agencies and the White House.
White House officials said Mr. Bush could make an announcement about both jobs as soon as Monday.
The White House has considered a number of other candidates for Treasury secretary, the senior economic policy position in the cabinet and the lead spokesman for the administration in dealing with the financial markets and economic officials from other nations. Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary and a close friend of Mr. Bush's, spent the weekend with him at Camp David, and lobbyists said Mr. Evans had not been ruled out.
Gerald L. Parsky, who was assistant Treasury secretary in the Ford administration and served last year on Mr. Bush's Social Security Commission after running the Bush campaign in California in 2000, had the backing of several outside advisers to the White House. He had lunch today at the Four Seasons hotel in Washington with Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top political adviser, but Republican advisers said he was not in line to get Mr. O'Neill's job.
The new economic team will be taking over when partisan differences over how to address the sluggish economy are growing sharper. The new team will also have to address continued jitters on Wall Street and the possible economic ramifications of any war with Iraq.
Among the team's first jobs will be to sell a new economic package being completed by the White House. People who have been briefed on the plan said it would include a reduction in taxes on stock dividends, tax law changes to make it easier for companies to write off their investments in new equipment, and probably some acceleration of the timetable under which individual federal income tax rates are to be reduced under last year's tax cut.
Mr. Bush has been under pressure from conservatives to choose economic advisers who will push for tax cuts more aggressively than Mr. O'Neill did. But neither Mr. Snow, who helped raise money for Senator John McCain of Arizona before the 2000 Republican primaries, nor Mr. Friedman has a reputation as an ideologue.
Administration officials signaled last week that their ideal economic team would be a Main Street-Wall Street combination, a criterion that Mr. Snow and Mr. Friedman would meet.
In an interview last month with The New York Times, Mr. Snow said the biggest gain for business from the Republican victories in the midterm elections would be the administration's ability to name federal judges and regulatory officials without an extended fight in the Senate. 
"I'm glad the Senate is in the hands of the Republicans," Mr. Snow said. "I feel more comfortable with that. But the country's still divided on health care, on education, on policies for the elderly. There are still major fights, and the underlying political divisions in the country are still not resolved."
In many ways, Mr. Snow's background is similar to Mr. O'Neill's: he is a wealthy industrialist with government experience but few ties to Wall Street. Mr. Snow earned $2.2 million in salary last year, plus $11 million in bonuses, according to CSX's financial statements.
As chairman, chief executive and president of CSX, he has had considerable interaction with government policy and regulation. He oversaw the acquisition of Conrail by CSX in a joint venture with the Norfolk Southern Corporation. 
CSX, which had revenues of $8.1 billion and earnings of $957 million last year, also has interests in energy. It owns a controlling interest in the Yukon Pacific Corporation, which has permits to build a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska to Valdez and for a liquefied natural gas pipeline near Valdez.
Mr. Snow was co-chairman this year of a commission established by the Conference Board, a leading business research group, to study corporate responsibility and ethics after business scandals undermined investor confidence.
The commission concluded that corporate corruption had become a "moral cancer" that was "eroding shareholder value for all corporations and public confidence in critical elements of our economic system."
Mr. Friedman was co-chairman of Goldman Sachs in the early 1990's with Robert E. Rubin, who went on to become director of the National Economic Council and then Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. He has more recently run an investment fund for Marsh & McLennan, while becoming involved in a number of activities in Washington.
He was brought to Mr. Bush's attention by Josh Bolten, the deputy White House chief of staff, who worked for him at Goldman Sachs.
"He's a pragmatic conservative," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "He's extremely good at pulling together differing perspectives and forging consensus out of them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Bush, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and President Bush returned yesterday to the White House from Camp David. (Associated Press)(pg. A20); John W. Snow is said to be the choice for Treasury secretary. (Joe Tabacca/Bloomberg News)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS ETHICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); SCANDALS (69%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (68%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (60%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (95%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (57%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT; ENRON CORP; NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL 

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (95%); GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (95%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (95%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (95%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC4011 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS; SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); DICK CHENEY (58%); DANIEL J MURPHY (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); SNOW, JOHN W; EVANS, DONALD L (SEC); PARSKY, GERALD L; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; FRIEDMAN, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



281 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: TURKEY; 
Bush Will Meet A Leading Turk On Use of Bases

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
After he read an Islamic poem at a 1997 rally in southeastern Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan was charged with sedition, jailed for four months and barred from taking any government office. Now Mr. Erdogan is the leader of Turkey's governing party and is coming to the White House for a meeting on Tuesday with President Bush.
 The reason for Mr. Bush's invitation seems clear. 
 Mr. Erdogan's Justice and Development Party, a Muslim-based political organization with a decidedly pragmatic agenda, leads the coalition that came to power in the election last month. So Washington is eager to shore up ties with Mr. Erdogan and, in the event of war with Iraq, secure his support for the Pentagon's plan for ousting Saddam Hussein. 
Mr. Erdogan, for his part, is eager to burnish his credentials as a forward-thinking moderate and advance his country's bid to enter the European Union, a move Washington strongly supports.
But a big question is whether the two sides will agree on the scope of American military deployment in Turkey. If Mr. Bush decides to authorize an attack on Iraq, the Pentagon hopes to carry out airstrikes from Turkish air bases as it did during the Persian Gulf war in 1991. But this time the Pentagon wants to do more. It also wants to use Turkish soil as a staging area for American ground attacks in northern Iraq.
The idea is to open a northern front that could complement the main attack from Kuwait and therefore enable the United States and its allies to quickly overwhelm Iraq's overstretched forces. 
United States officials also calculate that the deployment of American ground troops in northern Iraq would enable Washington to fend off an Iraqi attack on the ethnic Kurds who dominate that region, a mission that might be difficult to accomplish by air power alone. They believe that American forces would stabilize the Kurdish area if Mr. Hussein was toppled. That is no small consideration given the tensions between Turkey, which has its own restive Kurdish minority, and the Iraqi Kurds.
"We're quite comfortable with what we can do from the south," Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz said during a visit to Turkey last week. "Obviously, if we are going to have significant ground forces in the north, this is the country they have to come through. There is no other option."
Besides pushing for an early date to start negotiations to join the European Union, Turkey is also involved in negotiations over a United Nations plan to settle the longstanding Greek-Turkish impasse on Cyprus. The Bush administration has been pressing for progress on both fronts by the European Union summit meeting in Copenhagen, which starts on Thursday. 
American officials say headway in those areas would be a major achievement that would help integrate Muslim Turkey into the West and resolve a long-simmering international dispute. Washington, however, is also hoping that its support for Turkey's bid to enter the European Union -- and the $5 billion in assistance that Turkish officials say the Bush administration is offering as compensation for the economic dislocation that would result from a war with Iraq -- will help win Mr. Erdogan's support for a possible military operation in Iraq. 
As a NATO member, Turkey has long been a close ally of the United States. But the extent of its cooperation with Washington in the event of a war with Iraq is far from settled. American officials said they were confident that the United States would eventually secure access to air bases in Turkey. 
But Turkey's foreign minister, Yasar Yakis, cautioned publicly during Mr. Wolfowitz's visit that the deployment of larger numbers of American ground troops on Turkish soil was not politically feasible, a view that was also conveyed privately to the Bush administration by other senior Turkish officials. 
Some former United States officials say Turkish public opinion is not the main reason Turkey is resisting the deployment of American ground forces. They say the Turkish military wants to retain the option of sending its own forces into northern Iraq to ensure that the Kurds there do not declare a Kurdish state or seize the oil fields near Kirkuk, which could give the Kurds an economic basis for independence and perhaps encourage secessionist moves among Turkish Kurds.
"The Turks want to be in a position to intervene in northern Iraq without U.S. interference," said Kenneth M. Pollack, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former C.I.A. military analyst on Iraq. "That is why we need to be there. If U.S. forces were in the north, they can serve effectively as a peacekeeping force."
Mr. Wolfowitz also argued that the presence of American forces in northern Iraq could have an important stabilizing role and urged Turkish restraint. 
"What we have been saying to our Turkish counterparts is this: Maximum U.S. participation is a good thing for Turkey," Mr. Wolfowitz told the Turkish newspaper Hurriyet. "I believe that rather than acting alone to protect its interests in northern Iraq, it would be much better for Turkey to act within a coalition." 
Still, Turkish public opinion is clearly not on Washington's side. According to a recent public opinion survey by the Pew Research Center, 83 percent of Turks polled oppose allowing the United States to use Turkish bases to wage war on Iraq. The percentage of Turks with a favorable view of the United States also dropped from 52 percent to 30 percent over the last year, the survey found. The poll's margin of error was 3.1 percentage points. 
"Most people in Turkey would not favor a military attack on Iraq," said a Turkish official. "Iraq is a neighbor and a Muslim country. Turkey has a new government, and there is hope for this government and for the economy. Most people don't want a war to take place."
Mr. Wolfowitz conveyed Mr. Bush's invitation to Mr. Erdogan at a Tuesday night dinner in Ankara. At first glance, Mr. Erdogan might seem an unlikely ally. The 48-year-old politician grew up in Kasimpasa, a poor neighborhood in Istanbul. He went to a religious school and got his start in politics by organizing an Islamic youth group. He later was elected mayor of Istanbul. As mayor, he was praised for running an efficient government, but he also banned alcohol from city restaurants, stirring fears that he was challenging Turkey's secular state. 
In 1997, he recited a poem that began, "The mosques are our barracks; the minarets are our bayonets." He was charged with inciting religious hatred and went to jail for four years, a period that his supporters say led to his transformation into a more pragmatic leader.
But the effect of Mr. Erdogan's sentence lingers, and he is still barred from serving in government, a prohibition his supporters are striving to overcome so that he can secure a place in Parliament and eventually become the head of state. Mr. Bush is giving a boost to Mr. Erdogan's ambitions by inviting him to the White House, which would raise his stature at home. 
That is not the only way the Bush administration is trying to help Mr. Erdogan. Since his party's triumph at the polls, he has sought to dispel fears that he has a secret Islamic agenda, casting himself as a modernizer and a pragmatist. His primary foreign policy goal is to speed Turkey's entry into the European Union. 
He made a whirlwind tour of European capitals to make his case that a date of next year should be set for talks on Turkey's union candidacy. He has rejected a European proposal that talks on eventual membership not begin until 2005, insisting that talks start next year. 
The Bush administration has strenuously backed his appeals, prompting Francois Heisbourg, the chairman of the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies, to quip that American officials known for their penchant for unilateral action have taken a curiously strong interest in the development of European multilateral institutions.
Bush administration officials, however, have cast Turkey's bid for European Union membership as a historic opportunity to bring Turkey into the West and, as a result, demonstrate that Western nations are not at odds with the Muslim world. They say they are convinced that Mr. Erdogan has undergone a genuine evolution from his early days and is a true moderate. 
"Is Erdogan going to Libya, Iraq or Syria?" a senior administration official said. "No. His first trips were to European capitals. He appears to have made his strategic choice. Rather than dig into the past he is looking to the future."
During his brief trip to Washington, Mr. Erdogan is expected to meet with Mr. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser. 
Administration officials insist that much of the discussion will dwell on the search for a Cyprus settlement as well as Turkey's quest to join the European Union. But they acknowledge that Iraq is also a main item on the agenda. The Pentagon, for its part, is clearly hoping that Mr. Erdogan's visit will facilitate the deployment of American forces in Turkey. 
The Pentagon, in particular, is eager to begin preparing for a northern front. It has already made plans to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade airfields as well as ports along Turkey's southern coast so that they could be used to ship American war materiel to Turkey for a ground offensive.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Two articles on Wednesday -- one about the efforts of Greek and Turkish Cypriots to mend their divisions and one about President Bush's meeting with the leader of Turkey's governing party -- referred incorrectly to the Turkish government. (Articles on Dec. 5, 8 and 9 about Turkey's role in preparations for a possible war on Iraq also included the error.) Turkey is governed by the Justice and Development Party alone; the party won an overwhelming election victory in November.




GRAPHIC: Photo: Recep Tayyip Erdogan, head of the Justice and Development Party, which has Islamic roots and is the largest member of Turkey's governing coalition, greets supporters in Istanbul. He meets President Bush this week. (Associated Press)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); RELIGION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DESERT STORM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%) KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ERDOGAN, RECEP TAYYIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CYPRUS (79%) IRAQ; TURKEY; EUROPE; 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



282 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: After Election In Louisiana, All Sides Look For Lessons 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
Democrats found a ray of sunshine here over the weekend in the unexpected victory of Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a freshman Democrat, over a Republican challenger who had been bolstered by the full political apparatus of the White House and the personal imprimatur of President Bush.
 After a drubbing in the Nov. 5 elections, the party saw hope spring from what had started to look like a losing campaign. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said the Landrieu victory "proves the Democrats are alive and well." Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut said, "Her victory puts a happy ending on a tough year for Democrats." 
 Still, Ms. Landrieu's victory over Suzanne Haik Terrell in a runoff election Saturday by 52 percent to 48 percent surprised many analysts because Ms. Terrell, who finished 19 percentage points behind Ms. Landrieu on Nov. 5, had the momentum. As a Landrieu aide put it, referring to President Bush's top political adviser, "The only person more shocked than Karl Rove is all of us."
Republicans will have a 51-to-48 edge in the next Senate. One independent, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, caucuses with the Democrats. But now that Ms. Landrieu has won, Democrats are eager to cull meaning from her success and replicate it elsewhere.
Political analysts said that some aspects of Ms. Landrieu's campaign were useful guideposts. They credited her emphasis on economic issues and her conservative cultural leanings, like her support for several pro-gun measures.
"Democrats win in the South when they emphasize economic issues, and Republicans win when they emphasize social issues," said Wayne Parent, chairman of the political science department at Louisiana State University. 
On this point, Mr. Parent said, Ms. Landrieu smartly exploited what she called a secret deal between the Bush administration and Mexico to increase sugar imports, which would hurt Louisiana's sugar industry. The strategy allowed her to appear as an advocate on an economic issue while asserting her independence from the president on a matter important to Louisiana. (Administration officials denied there was a deal; Ms. Landrieu said they would not admit it until after the election.)
Senator John B. Breaux, a Democrat as well as the state's senior senator and a mentor to Ms. Landrieu, said the election showed that "a mainstream moderate message can win in the South and can win throughout the country."
Mr. Breaux said Ms. Terrell "got caught up by saying she would be with the president 100 percent of the time, but people don't want a mechanical person who is just going to push the buttons for the president." 
Democrats and other analysts said the Republicans mistakenly ran a relentlessly negative campaign. Susan Howell, a political scientist at the University of New Orleans, said it may have helped at first, but eventually backfired.
Ms. Landrieu called the president on the carpet over the issue of negative campaigning. "The president has some explaining to do," she told WWL, a local television station, in an interview.
Republicans had little to say about the defeat except that President Bush had nothing to do with it. Ms. Terrell had no public appearances.
Scott McClellan, a spokesman for the White House, said that Ms. Terrell "ran a strong campaign and came close" in a state that has not elected a Republican senator since Reconstruction.
Chad Colby, a spokesman for the Louisiana Republican Party, said that a Congressional runoff election the same day in a heavily Republican district in the northeastern part of the state had led Republican voters to stay home. That hurt Ms. Terrell, Mr. Colby said. 
Alex Castellanos, a Republican consultant who helped Ms. Terrell's campaign, attributed the loss to quirks of the state. "Just in case politics is not unusual enough, God invented Louisiana," Mr. Castellanos said. 
Mr. Breaux said Ms. Landrieu had almost been foiled by some eternal imponderables, like the necessity of appealing to disparate groups at the same time.
"The challenge for Democrats in the South, and probably everywhere, is, how do you keep the base while knowing that you can't win with just the base?" he said.
Ms. Landrieu moved to the right in the campaign, which dampened the enthusiasm of black voters. But it was their outpouring in New Orleans that proved crucial to her re-election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); CAUCUSES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (64%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); KARL ROVE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002 



283 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Self-Adjusted Glasses Could Be Boon to Africa 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS THOMPSON 

DATELINE: AGOGO, Ghana 

 BODY:
Agogo is a lovely town in central Ghana, surrounded by hills and lush forests. But many lifelong residents don't know that.
 "I have patients here who have never been able to see the mountains," said Dr. Ababio-Danso, the lead ophthalmologist at Agogo's hospital. "You give them glasses, they look out in the distance, and they're amazed." He says he often sees patients who are unaware that they have a problem despite 20/200 vision, the threshold for legal blindness in the United States. 
 Uncorrected poor vision is one of the most pressing problems in the developing world. The World Health Organization estimates that 180 million people -- 90 percent of them in poorer countries -- suffer serious visual impairments. 
"I have met with farmers who can't tell maize from grass and fisherman who can't fix their nets," said Agnes Addo-Mensah, who runs an adult education program through Ghana's Ministry of Education. 
The percentage of people in Ghana with vision problems roughly equals the percentage in the United States, according to John Randall, an American-trained optometrist who teaches at the University of Science and Technology in Kumasi. But in Ghana, as in other developing countries, poor vision is far more likely to be caused by poor nutrition or by illnesses like trachoma, a bacterial disease that slowly causes blindness.
In developed countries like the United States, it is relatively easy to find an eye doctor and good glasses. In Ghana, there are about 50 optometrists for a population of nearly 20 million, and the per capita income is less than a dollar a day. Getting glasses can take a week's travel and several months' wages.
Now an Oxford University physicist has developed a novel remedy and is trying it out in Ghana on the advice of the World Health Organization: eyeglasses that allow wearers to correct their own vision with no need for an optometrist.
The physicist, Dr. Joshua Silver, calls them adaptive glasses. Their lenses are filled with silicone oil and form a chamber bounded by polyester film. Turning a knob on a small frame-mounted pump changes the amount of oil in the lens, altering the curvature of the lenses and, therefore, the power of the glasses. Users adjust the oil levels on each side until they can see clearly, a process that takes about 30 seconds. 
The glasses do not correct astigmatism, but they are effective against nearsightedness and farsightedness. Citing W.H.O. data, Dr. Silver estimates that all but about 15 percent of potential patients can be treated with his glasses.
The idea of fluid-filled lenses has existed since the 18th century, says Dr. Silver, but until now there has never been a model in wide use. "I started working on this idea for glasses in the mid-80's out of curiosity" he said. "Then I realized, if I could make something that could help a billion people, I ought to just go out and try to do it."
Dr. Silver, 56, has formed a company, Adaptive Eyecare, and says it will sell the glasses to Ghana at $10 a pair. The Ghanaian Health Ministry says it is interested in buying 400,000 pairs but does not have money in its budget to pay for them, so it is seeking funds from the World Bank. 
Some doctors in Ghana are enthusiastic about the new glasses. "Imagine all the kids who will be able to see the blackboard with this," said Dr. Kweku Ghartey, who left Ghana in the 1960's out of fear of political persecution, eventually went to Harvard and became one of Boston's leading retinal surgeons before recently returning to his homeland.
But not everyone embraces the idea. "They will prevent some people from coming to the hospital, where we might discover more serious problems," said Dr. Samuel Asiedu, general secretary of the Ghana Optometrists Association. Dr. Ababio-Danso, the ophthalmologist in Agogo, also notes that many Ghanaians are unfamiliar with glasses and do not know how to care for them or clean them. 
Nor is it clear how durable the glasses will be, or how long they will retain their prescriptive power, since the oils or the shape may deteriorate over time.
Still, many eye experts say it is hard to see how these glasses can be worse than the current alternatives, given that eye care now is virtually nonexistent. Many Ghanaians refuse to see doctors and dismiss poor eyesight as just one indicator of kookoo, a mysterious catchall sickness that supposedly causes disorders as diverse as cataract problems and impotence.
In Patriensa, for example, 15 miles from the Agogo hospital, few villagers wear glasses or have had their vision checked. Mary Agykpomaa -- an indigenous healer at the bottom of a steep hill who claims to be able to cure AIDS with a potion concocted from local forest leaves, mud and boiling water -- has a similar cure for bad eyesight.
"It's not the eye, but it's usually something in the head," she said recently, as a helper burned a snake in the background, and she rubbed her potion on an injured man's grotesquely swollen ankle. "And I can cure that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Kweku Ghartey with a pair of adaptive glasses. The wearer can adjust the amount of oil in the lens, altering the the power of the glasses. (Nicholas Thompson) Chart: "Adjustable View"Cheap and easy to use, these adjustable glasses may help to fight uncorrected poor vision, a serious problem in developing countries. HOW THEY WORK1. As the wheel on the pump is turned, fluid flows in or out of the lens. 2. The surface of the lens, formed by a stretched elastic membrane of high optical quality, changes the curvature of its surface and hence its power. 3. When the best level of adjustment is found, the sealing valve on the front of the glasses is closed and the adjusters can be removed. Chart shows the parts of the adjustable glasses and how they work. (Source: Adaptive Eyecare)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); BLINDNESS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); OPTOMETRY (89%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); DISABLED PERSONS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (67%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); NUTRITION (65%) EYEGLASSES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%) OXFORD UNIVERSITY; WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION; ADAPTIVE EYECARE (CO); WORLD BANK 

PERSON: SILVER, JOSHUA (DR); THOMPSON, NICHOLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%) GHANA

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



284 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Two analysts foresee growth in ad spending; the question, of course, is, How much?

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
TWO leading forecasters are offering more upbeat predictions for a resumption of growth in advertising spending next year, but differ as to just how strong the recovery is likely to be.
 The forecasters, Robert J. Coen and John Perriss, said they believed that an upturn was on tap for 2003 -- absent major disruptions from a war with Iraq -- to be led by spending in the United States, the world's largest ad market. 
 The rebound after a steep downturn will come, according to Mr. Coen and Mr. Perriss, as major marketers in categories like automobiles, entertainment and packaged foods continue to increase spending in mainstream media like television and radio. 
Though Mr. Coen's predictions were more optimistic than Mr. Perriss's, the two forecasters agreed that the increases -- whatever size they may be -- will accelerate in 2004 because of political and Olympic advertising.
Both men offered their respective predictions yesterday morning at the opening session of the 30th annual UBS Warburg Media Week Conference in New York. 
The estimates from Mr. Coen, the senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann in New York, and Mr. Perriss, the chief executive at ZenithOptimedia in London, were generally in line with others made lately by analysts. Ad spending is watched closely as an indicator of economic strength or weakness, so the 6.5 percent decline last year from 2000 -- the largest decrease in 63 years -- was deemed a significant setback.
"A year ago, things were pretty bad," Mr. Coen said. "The momentum is changing."
Mr. Perriss, who described himself as the "more prudent" of the pair, said he remains cautious in the near term, particularly because so much of the recovery has been attributable to "consumers, who have really defied the gloom and doom and kept spending."
"I question how long that's a supportable phenomenon," he added.
For ad spending in the United States this year, Mr. Perriss estimated an increase of 1.3 percent from 2001, half of Mr. Coen's estimate for an increase of 2.6 percent. For 2003, Mr. Perriss predicted a gain of 1.9 percent from 2002; Mr. Coen predicts a gain of 5 percent.
For ad spending worldwide in 2002, Mr. Coen called for an increase of 1.6 percent from last year, while Mr. Perriss called for a gain of only 0.2 percent. For 2003, Mr. Coen predicted a gain of 4.9 percent from this year and Mr. Perriss predicted a gain of 2.9 percent.
Auguring well, Mr. Coen said, are significant increases in spending this year by national advertisers in categories like automobiles, banks, beer and wine, restaurants, telecommunications and toiletries and cosmetics.
"They're spending at a pretty good clip relative to the economy," Mr. Coen said.
Mr. Coen and Mr. Perriss offer their forecasts from two to four times a year, then adjust them depending on updated data. For instance, last December Mr. Coen predicted that American ad spending in 2002 would increase 2.4 percent from 2001, then cut that estimate in June to 2.1 percent before raising it to the 2.6 percent figure he offered yesterday.
Among other forecasters who are offering estimates for American ad spending next year, Jack Myers, chief economist at Jack Myers Report, said he expected an increase of 2.8 percent, and Leland Westerfield, an analyst at UBS Warburg, said he expected an increase of 3 percent.
"The U.S. continues to lead the rest of the world," said Mr. Westerfield, who attended the presentation.
Mr. Coen's prediction of an increase of 2.6 percent for American ad spending this year, to $237.4 billion from $231.3 billion in 2001, is based on a 2.6 percent increase in spending in local media and a 2.7 percent increase in spending in national media. Among the stronger performers, he listed national spot television, national radio, local television and local radio. Among the weaker performers, he listed national magazines and interactive advertising.
Mr. Coen's predicted 5 percent increase for American ad spending in 2003 would bring the total to $249.3 billion, which would exceed the record of $247.5 billion, set in 2000. 
Looking at ad spending as a percentage of gross domestic product, Mr. Coen estimated a figure of 2.28 percent for 2002, rising to 2.29 percent next year, which would match the figure for 2001. The figure peaked in 2000 at 2.51 percent.
As for Mr. Coen's worldwide forecasts, his total for 2002 of $448 billion, compared with $440.9 billion in 2001, is based on a scant 0.5 percent increase overseas along with the 2.6 percent increase in the United States. Mr. Coen's total for 2003 of $469.8 billion -- still behind the record of $474.3 billion set in 2000 -- is predicated on a forecast of a 4.7 percent increase overseas along with the 5 percent gain in this country.
Mr. Perriss, in predicting that growth in ad spending will accelerate in 2004, offered a forecast of 4.4 percent growth that year compared with the 2.9 percent he estimated for 2003. Though agreeing that was likely to happen, Mr. Coen did not offer a specific figure.
ZenithOptimedia is jointly owned by the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe. Universal McCann is part of the McCann-Erickson World Group, a division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Top executives of Interpublic also made a presentation yesterday at the conference, which continues through Thursday. The presentation by John J. Dooner Jr., chairman and chief executive, and Sean F. Orr, executive vice president and chief financial officer, came as Interpublic grapples with numerous serious operational and financial problems that led Standard & Poor's three days ago to downgrade its long-term corporate credit to one level above junk status.
Mr. Dooner hinted at a coming cooperative venture between units of the Partnership division of Interpublic: Lowe & Partners Worldwide, which specializes in advertising, and Draft Worldwide, which specializes in direct marketing. He declined to comment further.
The search for a chief operating officer at Interpublic is making progress, Mr. Dooner said. "We're in the interviewing process," he said. "It's a priority, but I don't want to put a date against it; there's no deadline."
On a list of Interpublic's priorities for 2003, Mr. Orr included a goal of "resolving the Octagon Motor Sports issue, once and for all." His reference was to the car-racing division whose operational difficulties will result in a loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share for 2002.
Despite the recitation of the agency company's travails, the executives were still able to maintain a sense of humor during the presentation. At one point the logos of several companies whose accounts are handled by Interpublic agencies appeared incorrectly, some upside down as well as backward.
After noticing the mistake, Mr. Orr said, "It's been that kind of year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COSMETICS (71%); BEER & ALE (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (55%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



285 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Grocery Chain Meets Profit Expectations 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
The nation's second-largest grocery chain, Albertsons Inc., said yesterday that it met Wall Street's third- quarter profit expectations despite intensified competition and a slump in sales attributed to a lagging economy. 
 Albertsons reported earnings of $192 million, or 48 cents a share, on $8.7 billion in revenue. 
That compared with a year-earlier profit of $176 million, or 43 cents a share, on revenue of $9 billion. 
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had been anticipating 48 cents a share after the company announced in October that third-quarter earnings would be 10 percent lower than previously expected. 
The chairman, Larry Johnston, called the third quarter "a respectable performance in a period that was challenged by the combined effects of our country's continued economic weakness and heightened levels of competition in our industry." 
Albertsons will continue its $750 million cost reduction campaign, Mr. Johnston said, while investing more heavily in innovative marketing programs to increase sales. 
Restructuring during the first half of the year cut costs by $250 million, Albertsons said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: SUPERVALU INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: ALBERTSON'S INC (ABS) 

TICKER: SVU (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (96%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (96%) SIC5411 GROCERY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (59%) IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



286 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Profit Outlook And UAL Filing Roil the Markets

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Stocks slumped yesterday on investor fears that the lackluster economy was continuing to stifle corporate profits and a growing belief that the market's recent rally may be unjustified when measured against earnings increases or improved business forecasts. The bankruptcy filing by UAL, the parent of United Airlines, only added to investors' unease.
 Posting its sharpest decline in a month, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 172.36 points, or 2 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 20.23 points, or 2.2 percent. The Nasdaq composite index, which has had the most explosive surge recently among the three main indexes, slid 55.3 points, or 3.9 percent. 
 "Once again, the fundamentals are taking over," said Liz Miller, portfolio manager at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen in New York. "The rally we enjoyed was driven almost entirely by hope -- we all needed and wanted a fourth-quarter rally so badly. But I think what we're seeing is both the economic data and corporate profit outlook themselves just don't support wonderful rallies of double-digit increases in a couple of weeks' time."
From the market's recent lows of early October to its peak in late November, the S.& P. 500 jumped 20.5 percent. The Nasdaq turned in an even hotter performance, rising 33.5 percent. Now, the sectors that made the most significant moves up -- like information technology and telecommunications -- are leading the retreat.
Technology shares, for example, were among the hardest hit yesterday. I.B.M. fell $2.73, or 3.3 percent, after an analyst at Banc of America Securities downgraded his recommendation on the company's stock to market perform from buy. The analyst, Joel Wagonfeld, said that spending on computers, software and servers remained weak. The stock is down 34.2 percent so far this year. 
Both Microsoft and Intel also declined. Microsoft lost $1.94, or 3.5 percent, while Intel shed $1.03, or 5.5 percent. Nokia, the maker of cellphones, fell $1.32, or 6.8 percent, to $18.02 
One strategist said that investors also seemed disappointed with the White House's nomination of John W. Snow, the chief executive of the CSX Corporation, for Treasury secretary.
"There are some on Wall Street who have issues with going again to the corporate side for Treasury secretary," said Ned Riley, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors. Paul H. O'Neill, who was ousted as Treasury secretary last week, was the chief executive of Alcoa before joining the Bush administration. "Some felt that there was a greater opportunity to tap someone who was a little bit more popular or who has experience getting legislation through," Mr. Riley said.
Still, the depressed tone of the market seemed a result mostly of a desultory economy and stock prices that may have anticipated faster economic growth than is achievable. 
Wal-Mart Stores fell $1.19 yesterday, or a little more than 2 percent, to $51.85, after the company said that its same-store sales rose just 3 percent last week, which was at the low end of its forecast. It was the first full week of the holiday shopping season and a period investors were watching closely. Executives at other retailers, like Federated Department Stores, said that sales were "difficult" during the week, perhaps because of the snow and ice in some Eastern states. 
Mr. Riley said that some investors might be uneasy at seeing how closely this fall's market performance has paralleled last fall's, and they might be selling to avoid the same disappointment they experienced when the 2001 rally fizzled. "The Nasdaq had rallied almost 45 percent from the September lows, and the S.& P. and Dow Jones rallied about 25 percent from trough to peak last year," he said. "Ironically, a lot of the conditions were the same, and I do think some people are a little reticent to buy this rally as a result." 
While investors obviously want to end the year on a positive note, strategists said that clear and positive signs from a throng of corporations about the state of their operations would be needed to reinvigorate stock prices.
"The focus is really going to be on the year-end reports that are due in January," Ms. Miller said. "I think all investors are waiting to hear a succession of corporate leaders report that they see positive trends in their underlying business. We got it recently from Qualcomm and Intel, but if we could start getting more of these with some regularity, that would give investors confidence to buy." --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
(By Reuters) -- Treasury prices pushed higher yesterday, aided by weak equities, with many bond investors shrugging off the president's nomination of a new Treasury secretary.
The market managed to shed the weakness that plagued it the previous session, with traders saying that they were waiting for more information about President Bush's tax cuts and his choice for the Treasury post, John W. Snow, before basing trading decisions on the nominee.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note climbed 14/32, to 99 23/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.03 percent from 4.09 percent on Friday.
The 30-year Treasury bond increased 25/32, to 106 24/32. The bond's yield declined to 4.93 percent from 4.98 percent on Friday.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.69899.371High Rate1.1951.245Investment Rate1.2151.269Low Rate1.16%1.20%Median Rate1.18%1.23%Total applied $34for,811,031$33,770,889$19Accepted,215,031$20,617,739$1Noncompetitive,441,188$882,773

Both issues are dated Dec. 12, 2002. The three-month bills mature on March 13, 2003, and the six-month bills mature on June 12, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An options trader yesterday followed the action in UAL, the parent of United Airlines. The UAL bankruptcy filing unnerved investors. (Associated Press)(pg. C13) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C13) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C13) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since August. (Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (61%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); INTEL CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); ALCOA INC (50%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (63%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



287 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD; 
Discounters May Rule A New Business Class

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey

 BODY:
WATCHING the passing scene at Denver International Airport, David Mosteller says he is sorry to see a remarkable era in business travel fading away.
 "You used to see so many United Airlines business fliers here," said Mr. Mosteller, the president of Skyport Companies, which operates 12 restaurants and fast-food outlets in the airport, a sprawling United hub. 
 "You know: 41 years old, $70,000-plus a year, well dressed, with expense account. The ones who eat at Wolfgang Puck Express, not Taco Bell," he said. 
Well heeled on corporate travel budgets that were geared to paying business fares that often were seven times the cost of leisure fares, this breed of passenger has been in decline at all domestic airports since the economy soured early last year.
But in the boom times, some hub airports chose to rely more than others on the top-drawer business-travel market represented by full-fare carriers. Pittsburgh International, where US Airways has 75 percent of the flights, is one example. And Denver, where United has about two-thirds of the flights, is a better one.
Like most airport industry executives, Mr. Mosteller didn't need United Airlines skulking into bankruptcy court to tell him that things will never be as they were in the highflying boom days of the late 1990's.
Gradually, with many of the major airlines in a free fall, an understanding is dawning that much domestic air travel in the future is more likely to resemble a high-speed version of urban commuter bus service.
Knowing that doesn't make it any easier for those who bet on United.
Though several major competitors, including Continental, have hinted that they're considering adding some flights in Denver to pick off some of United's business-travel market share there, it's apparent that airports like Denver International are more likely to reflect the austerity of the discount carriers more than the free-spending elan of the classic United road warrior.
"I see the other airlines, the Deltas, Americans, Continentals, Northwests, bunkering down at their primary hubs" and not making any big, costly moves into Denver, Mr. Mosteller said. "Instead, I would expect you'll see the lower-cost airlines trying to fill some of the slots" that United will eventually vacate as it reduces its flights in months to come.
"Already, we're starting to miss the attitude the United business traveler conveyed," he said. "They were the mainstay of Denver International Airport, the ones the waitresses and bartenders all knew by name as they passed through once or twice a week, regular as clockwork."
Now, they are not hubbing through Denver anymore, he said. "I'm not playing a violin here because the whole economy is hurting," he added. "Still, it's sad to see them being replaced by a different crowd" -- the discount travelers looking for a value meal and willing to take an airborne bus.
Of course, as Willie Nelson may or may not have said, there ain't nothing wrong with a nice bus. In focusing intensely on United and the problems of the status-heavy major airlines, it is easy to neglect the dawn of the era represented by the discount airlines like Southwest Airlines, JetBlue, Alaska Air and America West.
Let's consider America West, which gets far less attention than Southwest and JetBlue. Based in Phoenix, it is now the eighth-largest domestic airline, with 800 daily flights, compared with United's nearly 1,800. Since it was founded in 1983, America West has been in and out of bankruptcy twice.
Last December, it was the first airline to apply successfully for a loan guarantee from the federal Air Transportation Stabilization Board, the agency that derisively rejected United's application last week.
America West, which reported a $31 million loss in the third quarter of 2002, compared with United's loss of $889 million, is the airline that stunned the industry early this year when it unilaterally cut business fares across the board.
Major airlines responded by selectively reducing fares on competing routes, and several have since tinkered with business-fare cuts in selected markets. But to date, America West is the only big airline to have simplified and reduced all business fares -- an action that corporate travel managers and airline consumer experts insist is necessary for the major carriers to create a rational air travel system in which carriers can operate profitably.
Ron Cole, America West's vice president for sales, added that it had no plan to move aggressively onto any turf vacated by United at Denver.
Instead, America West's long-term strategy is to expand its own underdeveloped hub in Phoenix while slowly building national connecting routes from other regional airports. Recently, it expanded service to and from Pittsburgh; Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Washington-Dulles; Toronto; and Medford, Ore.
Pittsburgh, of course, is a fortress hub of US Airways, which entered bankruptcy proceedings in August after making major cutbacks in routes and staffing. But Mr. Cole said the US Air bankruptcy filing wasn't the reason that America West had expanded service there.
Instead, he said, "we noted that it was a very high-fare environment, dominated by one carrier."
He added, "Given our new business-friendly fare structure, and comparing that to the high-fare environment, we said, 'Here is a great opportunity -- how could we not go in?' "
Anyone predicting the future outlines of the air travel industry needs to keep looking at Southwest, JetBlue and the other prominent discount carriers. But I'd also keep an eye on America West, which appears to be paying more attention than the others to what the business-travel market insists it needs.
"We've got our fleet pretty well utilized at this point, and we don't have unlimited opportunities going into next year," Mr. Cole said. "But we've got a few more cities in our sights."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MARKET SHARE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (64%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (85%); TACO BELL CORP (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: WOLFGANG PUCK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



288 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: The Next Africa? 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MONTE CHINGOLO, Argentina 

 BODY:
While we're all focused on distant Iraq, our neighbor South America is quietly falling apart.
 Maria Amelia Miranda stood yesterday in the Iapi shantytown here in Monte Chingolo, south of Buenos Aires, and cried. Three of her seven children -- girls ages 8, 7 and 3 -- have intestinal worms, up to a foot long, that she must periodically pull from their bottoms. But the worming medicine costs about $1.40 per child, and she can't afford to buy both the medicine and food for the children. 
 "Once I did buy a little medicine and gave each of my children a little bit," she said. "But it wasn't the full dose, and so it didn't do any good. So now my children are feeling itchy, and my 8-year-old is losing weight. If they have parasites, it doesn't matter what they eat."
So what should Mrs. Miranda buy -- food or medicine? With her husband, a mechanic, getting by only with odd jobs, and bread almost doubling in price over the last year, she can't afford both. For now, she's using the money for food and hoping that the worms do not get worse.
Until now, the only part of the world to suffer a sustained drop in incomes has been Africa. But South America and Central America now risk becoming another Africa, in the sense of institutionalized Western neglect and indigenous despair, of tumbling living standards, of coups and civil war and failed states. If we allow this to happen, we Yanquis will pay the price -- in terms of economics, drugs and immigration -- for years to come. 
Washington's policy toward South America is in disarray, and there has been too little urgency about reaching a new I.M.F. agreement with Argentina. The Treasury, under John Snow, must wake up to its international responsibilities to sustain economic order. 
The economic historian Angus Maddison has calculated that in 1900, Argentina's per capita income was almost $2,800, behind the United States then but about the same as Canada and France and more than twice the figure for Japan.
Argentina has been one of the great failures of the last 100 years, for today its per capita income is about $2,500 -- that's right, less than it was a century ago. The trajectory is evident in families like that of Eduardo Alberto William, who owes his surname to a great-grandfather who immigrated from England to give his descendants better prospects. It was a bad bet; Mr. William is one of Argentina's 125,000 garbage sorters, who collect recyclables, earning about $2 a day. 
With an economy that is shrinking more than 10 percent this year, Argentina defaulted first on its commercial debts and last month on its World Bank debt as well, and even people who manage to get by often support the idea of defaulting.
"How can we pay?" asked Miriam Ganduglia, who was hoeing a vegetable garden. "We're starving." 
Starving? She dressed well and had red-painted toenails and fingernails. But Argentinians are traumatized because they had thought they were living in the modern world -- and now they find themselves eking out a living in the third world.
It is not just Argentina, for all of South America is in crisis. Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia are as badly off or worse. Brazil could follow Argentina into bankruptcy and default on its $260 billion foreign debt, rattling the entire global economy. 
Farther to the north, Colombia is torn by civil war, and Venezuela is paralyzed by a political crisis that could also disintegrate into war. Almost everywhere, the "Washington Consensus" free-market policies of the 1990's are regarded as failed and discredited, partly because we did not fight corruption as aggressively as we should have, and in countries as diverse as Brazil, Venezuela, Peru and Ecuador, recent elections have gone to leftists or populists who tend to make Americans deeply nervous.
Iraq is of course enormously important, because we'll probably soon be at war there. But in today's world, as in chess, you can't afford to follow only a single part of the board. If we let Baghdad blind us to other crises and tragedies, if we allow Argentina to slip from the first world to the third world, and are not attuned to the distress of Mrs. Miranda and millions like her, then we -- and the South Americans -- will be checkmated. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FAMILY (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); TRENDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); HISTORY (69%); COUPS (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); ENGLAND (65%); FRANCE (52%) LATIN AMERICA; ARGENTINA; PARAGUAY; URUGUAY; BOLIVIA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



289 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Method of Legal Services Financing Is Challenged Before Supreme Court 

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
An argument at the Supreme Court was conducted today in the dry and arcane language of "takings law," the jurisprudence governing the appropriation of private property for public use. But beneath the jargon was an ideologically charged and highly consequential debate about the financing of legal services for the poor.
 Under the justices' microscope was a program that all 50 states use to pool the tiny amounts of interest generated on the money that lawyers hold for clients for short periods in escrow accounts and other very short-term deposits. 
 The interest, which would be eaten up by transaction costs and taxes if held in individual accounts, is instead aggregated and channeled to organizations that provide legal services. Last year, these programs, known as Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts, or Iolta, generated more than $160 million, or about 15 percent of the money spent on legal services for the poor from all public and private sources. 
The Washington Legal Foundation, a conservative policy group here, has for years made the programs its target and has sponsored litigation against them. Four years ago, in a case challenging the trust account program in Texas, the Supreme Court agreed with the group that the interest generated by the client money was the property of the clients. But the court in that case stopped short of declaring that the public use of the money amounted to a "taking" under the Fifth Amendment, which provides that private property shall not be "taken for public use without just compensation."
That ultimate question was the issue before the court today in the Washington Legal Foundation's challenge to the trust account program in the State of Washington. Put in place by the Washington Supreme Court in 1984, the program generates $2.5 million to $4 million a year. 
One of the foundation's clients would have earned a gross amount of $5 on a two-day escrow deposit of $90,500, while the other would have earned $2 on a smaller deposit. 
Charles Fried, a Harvard Law School professor arguing for the Washington Legal Foundation, said the two had suffered a taking of the full $7, even if, as several justices suggested, they would have earned no net interest at all had their money been deposited in individual accounts.
"Private property is valued even though there is no realizable economic value," Mr. Fried, who served as solicitor general during the administration of President Ronald Reagan, told the court.
In not conceding that the interest had no calculable value, Mr. Fried said, "It is a taking even if the 'just compensation' is zero."
The remedy for the constitutional violation, he said, was to "shut down the program."
David J. Burman, a Seattle lawyer defending the Washington program on behalf of the nonprofit foundation that administers it, told the justices that the plaintiffs' "real complaint is a subjective, ideological one." That was not a proper complaint to bring under the Fifth Amendment, Mr. Burman said, adding, "If there is no value lost, there is no taking."
The program was also defended by Walter Dellinger, who represented the justices of the Washington Supreme Court. Mr. Dellinger, who was acting solicitor general during the Clinton administration, said the state court, "in so far as the English language would permit," had been precise in making clear that any client deposits large enough to have the potential to earn net interest for the clients were to be placed in an account for the client's personal benefit and not put in the Iolta program.
If not for the transaction costs of maintaining small individual accounts, many clients might earn net interest, Mr. Dellinger said, but "a world without transaction costs doesn't exist in the Milky Way."
The justices, who split 5 to 4 in the 1998 decision that found the interest to be property, have clearly not reconciled their differences, and were considerably more open than usual in carrying on a debate among themselves. Justice Antonin Scalia, whose support of the Washington Legal Foundation was manifest, challenged Mr. Dellinger by asking, "Whose money earned the interest?" Justice David H. Souter, whose opposite sympathies were equally apparent, instantly shot back: "There was no interest!"
Justice Stephen G. Breyer, who like Justice Souter was a dissenter from the earlier decision, had this question for Mr. Dellinger: "Suppose a robber had come to the depositor and said, 'Your money or your life.' What would the depositor have done? He'd be dead. This money didn't exist. There is a sense in which the program took the money, but who from?"
Mr. Dellinger said: "It's not money that could have been paid to an individual client. We don't agree that it's a taking."
The vote in the case, Washington Legal Foundation v. Legal Foundation of Washington, No. 01-1325, is likely to be close. The outcome may depend on Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who sided with the majority four years ago in finding the interest to be the clients' property. Justice O'Connor seemed skeptical today about the further step of declaring that an unconstitutional taking had occurred.
"How is it a taking if the compensation is zero?" she asked Mr. Fried.
To Mr. Burman, the program's lawyer, she suggested that any constitutional problem might be solved by explaining the situation to clients and giving them a choice not to participate.
The takings issue is part of a multipronged attack on the trust account programs by the Washington Legal Foundation, which has also raised a challenge under the First Amendment to the programs in Texas and Washington. Under this argument, the program amounts to compelled speech, because clients have no choice about the causes their money supports. The First Amendment arguments have not been resolved in the lower courts. In this case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, addressed only the takings issue and rejected it.
In a fund-raising letter mailed to its supporters in September, the Washington Legal Foundation said its goal was to "deal a death blow to the single most important source of income for radical legal groups all across the country." The letter continued: "It's an abomination that Iolta can take money that is rightly the property of Americans like you and me and use that money to support programs we oppose, that stand in direct opposition to everything we believe in."
The fund-raising letter was submitted to the court in a brief filed by AARP and other groups that support the trust account programs and said they wanted to call the court's attention to the foundation's broader political agenda.
Briefs were also filed in support of the programs by the American Bar Association; the Conference of Chief Justices, representing 50 state high courts; and by 36 states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The bar association said the trust account programs paid for one-quarter of the pro bono programs run by the organized bar. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (92%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROPERTY ESCROW (77%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; FINANCES; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON LEGAL FOUNDATION (83%) SUPREME COURT (US); WASHINGTON LEGAL FOUNDATION 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%) GREENHOUSE, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (STATE)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



290 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Administration Proposes Rules That Can Alter Pension Plans 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has proposed sweeping new pension rules that will encourage companies to adopt a type of retirement plan that has been under attack for three years for what critics call a tendency to strip benefits from older employees.
 The proposed rules, which are to be released by the Treasury Department on Tuesday, describe the steps for companies to avoid age-discrimination challenges when they convert their traditional pension plans into what are called cash-balance pension plans. Cash-balance plans tend to benefit younger workers, often at the expense of older workers, and are less costly for companies. 
 Getting clearance for these pension plans was near the top of businesses' wish list, but the rules were being attacked by Democrats in Congress even before their release. 
Employers are cheering the new proposals, which could become final in 90 days, as a cost saver. Some big companies have trimmed more than $100 million a year from their expenses by switching plans. Employers say that the rules are good for workers, too, because the rules will spur more companies to provide pension plans.
But worker-rights advocates are criticizing the proposals, saying they permit reductions in the value of employees' benefits. Under the new rules, companies will be able to reduce or wear away benefits if they use "reasonable" interest rates and mortality projections in calculating the value of pensions when they convert to a cash-balance plan.
Unlike 401(k) and similar savings plans, traditional defined-benefit plans deliver a fixed amount based on the employee's salary and years of service. In the cash-balance version, workers accrue benefits evenly over the course of their careers. The older plans allow workers to accrue disproportionately large benefits in their final years.
The government is endorsing cash-balance plans, critics say, meaning that older workers at companies that now convert will lose out on the large benefits that had been projected for them.
Cash-balance plans were popular until September 1999, when the Internal Revenue Service, facing criticism from workers at some companies, decided to halt approvals of the plans to study whether they unfairly discriminate against older workers. At some big companies, workers staged rallies to attack executives for making the switch, forcing some companies, most notably I.B.M., to back down or offer employees a choice of keeping their old pension benefits.
Since then, some companies have converted to cash-balance plans, but they have done so without the certainty that comes from obtaining a determination letter from the I.R.S. that effectively blesses the structure of the plan and certifies its tax-exempt status.
The rules to be unveiled Tuesday are the first step toward lifting the I.R.S. moratorium on approving cash-balance plans, according to Treasury officials. After a 90-day comment period, the proposed rules will be put in final form, and the I.R.S. is expected to begin approving pension plans soon afterward, Treasury officials say -- offering employers greater legal certainty that their conversions will not be attacked as discriminatory.
Traditional pension plans have been heavily supplemented in recent years by employee-managed 401(k) and similar plans. Under traditional pensions, companies calculate a retiree's benefit based on length of service and the amount of the annual paycheck in the last few years before retiring. Thus, the company manages the money and most of the value accrues late in the employee's career.
Under the newer plan, employers contribute a percentage of each worker's paycheck to a cash-balance account every year, and then guarantee that money will grow at a certain interest rate. Younger workers tend to benefit from this arrangement since they have more years for interest to accrue.
About one-third of the nation's largest public companies have cash-balance plans or their equivalent. According to Congressional critics, more than 800 claims of age discrimination have been filed over conversions to cash-balance plans.
As described by a Treasury Department official, the new rules will stipulate that cash-balance plans will not be considered discriminatory if the "pay credit" -- the percentage of employee paychecks contributed by the employer -- is no less for older workers than for younger workers. Conversions will also pass the discrimination test if the value of employee benefits is not reduced at the time of the switch. 
Furthermore, the official added, conversions will still avoid discrimination even if the benefits are reduced as long as the employer uses "reasonable" interest rate and mortality assumptions in determining the beginning value of an employee's new cash-balance account. The regulations give no guidance about what constitutes a reasonable interest rate.
Employers will find that using the rate on 30-year Treasury bonds will be a safe assumption, he said, while using a substantially different rate could mean difficulties when companies seek determination letters from the I.R.S.
"It's reasonable to look at the market rate of interest," the Treasury official said. He said that the new rules would safeguard the interests of employees and that other provisions to be unveiled Tuesday would be aimed at protecting workers' nest eggs.
Employer groups also said the new rules would help workers by prompting many companies that otherwise would not offer pension plans to do so.
"This takes an important step toward putting cash-balance plans on a firmer legal footing," said James Delaplane Jr., a partner at Davis & Harman in Washington who lobbies on pension issues for large employers.
Mr. Delaplane noted that almost one-third of the companies in the S.& P. 500 do not have defined-benefit pension plans. The new rules, he said, will encourage more companies to offer pensions at a time when many employees are concerned about the future of Social Security benefits and their own 401(k) plans.
But employee-rights advocates and some Democrats in Congress sharply criticized the proposals.
"This proposed change to pension rules will result in average employees losing ground in their pensions, while top company executives will continue to receive lavish treatment," said Representative George Miller of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Education and Workforce Committee.
David Certner, the director of federal affairs for AARP, said, "The Treasury could have done a lot more to protect older workers."
Employees who are just reaching the point where the accrual of benefits begins to accelerate rapidly in the years before retirement will suffer if their companies convert, Mr. Certner said.
"You've put in many years at a lower rate, and you're just about to reap the higher rate, and you change to a different benefit structure," said Mr. Certner, who was briefed on the new rules by Treasury officials. "You wind up getting much less than you were anticipating."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



291 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE TRAVELERS; 
United Assures Fliers Service Won't Decline; Skeptics Look Ahead

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
United Airlines, on its first day of operating under bankruptcy protection, moved swiftly yesterday to assure passengers that they would see no changes in service. But airline analysts said it was only a matter of time before travelers noticed fewer flights, smaller planes and the elimination of some routes.
 United, answering the question on the minds of many travelers, emphasized yesterday that passengers could continue to earn frequent-flier miles and that they could continue to trade them in for tickets at the same mileage levels as before. 
 For the moment, the airline said it would operate a normal schedule of 1,800 flights a day, worldwide, with no changes in snacks or other onboard service. United said there was no need to rebook flights on other airlines because it was honoring all tickets. 
But it may not be as easy in the future for travelers to book the flights on the dates and to the destinations they want, whether they are buying tickets or cashing in frequent-flier miles.
Even before it announced that it would file for bankruptcy protection, United said it would cut back its flights by 6 percent through spring. Yesterday, the airline said that was still the plan. 
But Sam Buttrick, an airline analyst with UBS Warburg in New York, said that United could trim its service by more than twice that, up to 13 percent, depending on the changes it needed to make. Mr. Buttrick forecast that the airline would reduce flights incrementally, cutting 5 percent at a time as it worked through its schedules.
In an interview yesterday, United's chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, declined to predict which services might be eliminated. "The most important thing at United right now," Mr. Tilton said, "is our customers, our customers, our customers."
He visited O'Hare Airport in Chicago at 6:20 a.m. yesterday, shortly before the airline filed its papers with the bankruptcy court, to talk to passengers and assure them that everything would be fine.
Still, there were hints of what was to come. Amid the relentlessly upbeat tone of a long list of reassurances posted on United's Web site was the acknowledgment that "as we move through the restructuring process, there may be some changes that could affect certain routes, although we will strive to keep the impact on customers to a minimum."
"We will make public announcements about any such decisions," the airline said.
Among the places most likely to be affected are those served by United's fleet of Boeing 747-400 jets, the wide-bodied, long-haul planes that have the highest operating costs, both in maintenance and pilot pay per hour.
That means passengers on routes where the 747's are most often used -- like the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America and on transcontinental flights within the United States -- could find themselves in smaller aircraft as United begins reallocating its fleet. And some fliers could see their routes eliminated.
Mr. Tilton said United planned to work more closely with its Star Alliance partners -- including Air Canada, Lufthansa and Varig in Brazil -- relying on them to pick up the slack on service it had been offering but might discontinue. In the case of Brazil, where United serves the two largest cities, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, from the United States, it may decide to stop flying to one of them, with Varig ferrying United passengers the 224 air miles to the other city.
In addition, smaller planes are expected to be used on short flights in the United States. In the coming months, United will be giving up some bigger aircraft in favor of regional jets, which are more economical to operate but have fewer seats.
Along with streamlining its schedule, United said it might close some of its Red Carpet executive lounges, although it had not determined where or when. It noted that club members have reciprocity privileges, under certain rules, with clubs run by US Airways, which filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this fall. 
The American Society of Travel Agents, which issued a list of tips for airline passengers, said the best protection for people flying on United "or any airline that has declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy" was to use a credit card when purchasing tickets. The trade group said passengers could refuse to pay for services that were not rendered, like flights that are canceled if a carrier stopped flying.
Industry analysts said United's passengers might face unpleasantness from demoralized United's employees, who saw the value of their stock in the airline virtually wiped out by the bankruptcy filing. 
But Mr. Tilton said he was certain that morale among the airline's more than 80,000 employees would remain high. He said that the combination of the terrorist attacks in September 2001, which involved two United jets, and the turmoil that has roiled the airline in the last weeks as it tried to avert the Chapter 11 filing, have made United's work force "extraordinarily resilient."
Mr. Tilton said he was pleased by the reaction he received from passengers as he stood in the middle of the airport terminal at dawn.
"Our customers said, 'We are with you, we are with you, we are with you,' " he recalled.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Frequent-Traveler Obligations"United Airlines has the second-largest number of unredeemed frequent-flier tickets. It has promised to keep honoring them and allow passengers to continue to earn miles. DeltaMEMBERS IN PROGRAM Millions: 29.0OUTSTANDING AWARD TICKETS Millions: 11.2AWARD TICKETS REDEEMED IN 2001 Millions: 2.4 UnitedMEMBERS IN PROGRAM Millions: 40.0OUTSTANDING AWARD TICKETS Millions: 11.1AWARD TICKETS REDEEMED IN 2001 Millions: 2.0 AmericanMEMBERS IN PROGRAM Millions: 43.0OUTSTANDING AWARD TICKETS Millions: 8.7AWARD TICKETS REDEEMED IN 2001 Millions: 2.7 NorthwestMEMBERS IN PROGRAM Millions: 19.5OUTSTANDING AWARD TICKETS Millions: 8.3AWARD TICKETS REDEEMED IN 2001 Millions: 1.4 US AirwaysMEMBERS IN PROGRAM Millions: 21.2OUTSTANDING AWARD TICKETS Millions: 6.8AWARD TICKETS REDEEMED IN 2001 Millions: 1.1 SouthwestMEMBERS IN PROGRAM Millions: N.A.OUTSTANDING AWARD TICKETS Millions: 1.3AWARD TICKETS REDEEMED IN 2001 Millions: 1.7 ContinentalMEMBERS IN PROGRAM Millions: 23.2OUTSTANDING AWARD TICKETS Millions: N.A.AWARD TICKETS REDEEMED IN 2001 Millions: 1.3 (Source: WebFlyer.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TICKET SALES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); BOEING CO (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



292 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
A Family Struggles to Rebound From the Economic Blow of 9/11

BYLINE:  By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
By the stroke of his paintbrush, Carlos Bassett says, he knows the interiors of many luxury apartment buildings and hotels in downtown Manhattan.
 But the Ritz-Carlton, in Battery Park City, is one hotel that stands above all the rest in the mind of Mr. Bassett, 38. He was working there on Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Mr. Bassett said he and his three brothers, also painters, were taking a coffee break when the first plane hit the World Trade Center. "I thought it was the beginning of a war," he said. "I thought it was the end of New York."
The brothers rushed toward the Staten Island ferries but were caught in the pandemonium.
As the twin towers fell, they escaped the wave of debris by smashing through the glass door of a closed restaurant.
In other ways, however, Mr. Bassett has been unable to escape the fallout of the trade center tragedy. Mr. Bassett, like his three brothers, has worked nearly 20 years for L & L Painting of Long Island, where their father also worked. Until the twin towers fell, the union job had provided a steady income.
He could afford a small one-bedroom apartment in the Bronx, which he shares with his second wife, Esmelda, and three children. Mr. Bassett also helps support a former wife and his three children with her.
But the steep decline in construction in Lower Manhattan after 9/11 has rippled throughout the industry. Mr. Bassett says he has not worked more than a few weeks at a time in the last 15 months.
"I used to work sometimes seven days a week," he said. "Now I just wait by the phone."
The union has pushed for more work, but the company says the jobs are not there, Mr. Bassett said.
With money running out, his wife took control of the situation and began looking to agencies for relief. She has always managed their home and taken care of their children, Charlie, 4, and Steven, 9, and her daughter, Erica, 13, from a previous relationship. Steven has a learning disability and has to take medication and attend special education classes. Luckily, Mrs. Bassett said, his needs are covered by a monthly disability check of $479.
But other living expenses were mounting. So Mrs. Bassett approached Safe Horizon, a nonprofit agency that has been providing financial help and mental health support for New Yorkers affected by the 9/11 attack. The agency gave the family $800, a typical week's pay for Mr. Bassett when he was working at the Ritz-Carlton, Mrs. Bassett said. Safe Horizon also gave her a list of other relief agencies.
Next, Mrs. Bassett went to Wall Street to apply for aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and learned that the process would be long and complex. She tried to qualify for the agency's 18-month disaster relief assistance, but she learned that recipients were required to prove that they had established residency in an apartment before 9/11.
This was a problem. The Bassetts said they had not signed a lease when they moved into their basement apartment. The landlord was willing only to provide a contract dated October 2001, Mrs. Bassett said.
By December 2001, the $600 that the family had set aside for rent was needed to pay for utilities and food, but the Red Cross helped them make a late payment.
Still, by April, Mr. Bassett had worked only a few weeks, enough to put food on the table but not for much else. The family had not paid the rent for three months. They faced eviction.
That's when Mrs. Bassett took another look at that agency list from Safe Horizon and spotted a number for the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Services, one of seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
Luz Bueno, a coordinator at the bureau, answered the call. "When I heard her desperation, I knew that they were in trouble," she said.
Within two weeks, the fund gave the Bassetts a check for $2,100. That money, Mr. Bassett says, kept his family from becoming homeless.
Ms. Bueno also advised Mrs. Bassett on how to reapproach FEMA. With Con Edison bills, the Bassetts have been able to show that they lived in their apartment before October 2001, and they are pursuing recertification with the agency.
Safe Horizon also referred Mr. Bassett to a program offering training in a new field. Mr. Bassett said he was open to retraining, though he would prefer to keep painting.
More important to him is making the best life he can for himself and his family here in the United States. He knows it may not be easy, but he has been through hard times before.
Mr. Bassett left Nicaragua in 1980, and Mrs. Bassett left in 1988, both because of the civil war.
"I left Nicaragua because I had nothing," Mr. Bassett said. "If we were to go back, after all these years, it makes me sad to think that we would still have nothing."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the funds expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,092,049.67
Recorded Friday: 74,726.00
Total: $4,166,775.67
Last year to date: $3,870,919.43

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos Bassett, right, with his wife, Esmelda, and sons, Steven, 9, and Charlie, 4, has had trouble finding work. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CHILDREN (87%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); TERRORISM (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FERRIES (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (67%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (65%); DISASTER RELIEF (62%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



293 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: New York Homeowners Paying a Record Share for Housing 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The Bronx and Brooklyn emerged from the last decade with a dubious distinction: According to an analysis of recent census data, more homeowners in those two boroughs spend more of their income on housing than people anywhere else in the country.
 The Bronx and Brooklyn jumped to the top of the list of United States counties ranked by the percentage of certain single-family homeowners spending at least 35 percent of their income on housing. Along with Hudson County, N.J., Miami-Dade County and Queens, they edged out a half-dozen California coastal counties that led the list in 1990. 
 The New Yorkers laying down such a large chunk of their income to live in the city are not lawyers and doctors in co-ops juggling maintenance and private school tuition; they are lower- and moderate-income people, many of them struggling to make mortgage payments on modest single-family houses in neighborhoods like Melrose in the Bronx, Canarsie in Brooklyn and Jamaica, Queens.
The census tracts with the highest percentages of homeowners spending at least 35 percent of their income on housing include wide swaths of brick row houses embroidered with white wrought-iron window guards and railings, and busy commercial districts where the rare single-family home, sheathed in pastel aluminum siding, huddles between apartment buildings and vacant lots. 
"No, I don't think I'm getting my money's worth," said Natasha Guirand, a 30-year-old financial services worker and single mother who is spending 40 percent of her income on her newly bought house: a tiny, three-bedroom, semi-detached with a compact backyard on a tree-lined street near the border of Flatlands and Mill Basin, just a half-hour's trip from her office.
"But as my mom always says, 'You pay for your convenience,' " she said.
Traditionally, lenders believed homeowners should spend no more than 28 percent of their income on mortgage payments to reduce the risk of delinquency and default. Though that rule of thumb has relaxed somewhat in recent years, spending more than 35 percent on mortgage payments, taxes and fuel is considered a heavy burden, especially for lower-income people.
The surge in the New York numbers came in a decade when home values soared and home ownership in the city rose but the median household income in every borough but Manhattan declined, according to the 2000 census. It also followed a successful push by the federal government to increase ownership among lower-income people who would not have qualified in the past.
Some experts wonder whether easier access to credit may have ended up overburdening some of the people it was intended to help. The foreclosure rate on government-insured loans has skyrocketed, especially in New York. And people who work in community organizations say they have seen a leap in the number of New Yorkers saddled with unmanageable housing costs.
"This is an issue that's on everybody's mind," said Michael H. Schill, a professor of law and urban planning at New York University. "A lot of people believe that home ownership is something that we should be promoting, while at the same time it can't be for everyone just because some people don't have the resources to both maintain their home and pay the debt service."
Howard Banker, a vice president for the Parodneck Foundation, which provides low- and no-interest loans to elderly homeowners, said, "If you combine the fact that people's income is static and the value of their homes has in some cases quadrupled, it permits them to borrow more money based on the value of their home, not necessarily on their ability to pay.
"If the percent of your income going for owner expenses is over 35 percent, it's a very difficult situation. Homeowner expenses have a tendency to increase. So insurance costs go up, taxes go up, the City of New York is proposing a substantial increase in the tax rate. It makes it ever more difficult to stay current on the mortgage."
Mary Sauri, a 48-year-old single foster parent living in Canarsie, is currently spending more than 60 percent of her income on the brick row house she bought in 1998. Having grown up in Sarasota, Fla., in an apartment without a bathtub, she had always dreamed of owning. She was able to get a $180,000 mortgage, she said, with a down payment of less than $10,000.
But Ms. Sauri decided a few months later to retire early from her job at Verizon. Though she found another job, in a telemarketing firm, she was laid off last February. She said that when she fell behind on her payments and tried to renegotiate her mortgage, she learned she was ineligible because of a $13,000 home equity loan that a contractor had helped her get for home repairs.
"I don't regret buying it," she said one morning recently, sitting in her diminutive, shoebox-shaped living room as her two dachshunds hectored the mailman. "I just should have been more informed."
Owner-occupied housing units make up slightly less than a third of all housing units in New York City. Census figures on the percentage of income spent for all owner-occupied units are not yet available; so far, the Census Bureau has released only those percentages for so-called "specified owner-occupied units" -- single-family houses with no business attached.
That category constitutes a significant percentage of all owner-occupied housing in New York: 42.9 percent of the 912,133 owner-occupied units citywide; 39 percent of the owner-occupied units in the Bronx; 37.4 in Brooklyn; 55.8 in Queens; and 77.5 in Staten Island.
Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College, found that the percentage of people in that group who were spending 35 percent or more of their income on housing jumped sharply during the 1990's. It went to 30.08 percent from 21.91 percent in the Bronx; to 28.6 from 20.8 in Brooklyn; and to 27.86 from 20.5 in Queens.
(The percentage of renters spending at least 35 percent of their income on rent was even higher: 36.22 percent in the Bronx; 36.24 in Brooklyn; and 32.73 in Queens. However, rents as a percentage of income in New York have been high for years; those percentages have barely risen since 1980, the census data show.)
What might explain the uptick is not yet clear.
Eric Kober, director of housing, economic and infrastructure planning for the New York City Department of City Planning, cautioned against reading too much into the housing-cost data. He and others theorize that there were widespread problems with the collection of accurate income data during the 2000 census, problems that were especially prevalent in immigrant neighborhoods.
"These results, which may appear to be unusual and interesting, may simply indicate problems with the data collection and not the measurement of things that are actually going on," Mr. Kober said.
Others said the apparent increase in homeowners who are spending more than 35 percent of their income on housing seemed consistent with what is known about the 1990's, a decade in which the official population count topped eight million for the first time, the demand for housing rose, neighborhoods revived and relatively little new low- and moderate-income housing was built.
For those reasons and others, the prices of single-family homes in the Bronx and Brooklyn rose on average by 57.5 and 61.7 percent respectively, according to Case Shiller Weiss, a firm that collects real estate data. In the New York metropolitan area, home prices escalated especially rapidly in the late 1990's, federal housing figures show.
Professor Schill of New York University and others pointed out that the federal government began pressing financial institutions more aggressively to lend money in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods in the mid-1990's. As it became easier to get a mortgage with a relatively small down payment, the ratios of payments to incomes rose, he and others said.
Also in the 1990's, there was an expansion of so-called subprime lending, often for refinancing -- lending to people with less-than-perfect credit histories, usually at higher interest rates. And there was a proliferation of predatory lending by unscrupulous lenders taking advantage of home buyers by charging extremely high rates.
"I would suspect that part of this is that there has been a real push on home ownership," Jim Buckley, executive director of University Neighborhood Housing Program, a community loan fund in the Northwest Bronx, said of the census numbers. "That's all great, as far as I'm concerned. The big question is: Are people stretching themselves too far?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Sauri and her foster son, Klorel St. John, 19 months old, on their block in Canarsie, Brooklyn. She spends more than 60 percent of her income on the $180,000 brick row house she bought in 1998 with a small down payment. "I don't regret buying it," she said recently. "I just should have been more informed." (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B8) Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: Through the Roof"Counties with the highest percentage of homeowners who spend at least 35 percent of their income on housing.* 1990Santa Cruz -- Calif.: 25.0%Ventura -- Calif.: 24.8Marin -- Calif.: 24.5Orange -- Calif.: 24.6San Mateo -- Calif.: 24.6Suffolk -- N.Y.: 23.1Hudson -- N.J.: 22.8Los Angeles -- Calif.: 22.8Riverside -- Calif.: 22.8San Diego -- Calif.: 22.5 2000Bronx -- N.Y.: 30.1%Brooklyn -- N.Y.: 28.6Hudson -- N.J.: 28.6Miami-Dade -- Fla.: 28.1Queens -- N.Y.: 27.9Los Angeles -- Calif.: 26.8Maui -- Hawaii: 26.1Santa Cruz -- Calif.: 25.9Monterey -- Calif.: 24.9Marin -- Calif.: 24.8 *Single-family homes (may be attached) on less than 10 acres that do not contain a medical or business office. (Source: Census data analysis by Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); CENSUS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); RANKINGS (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); TUITION FEES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



294 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Upscale Retailers Are Trying Downscale Tactics 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
It was a pitch that used to come only from stores trying to unload cheap sofas and stereo equipment. But these days, even a customer trying on a $10,000 sapphire ring at Tiffany's flagship store on Fifth Avenue is likely to hear it: "No money down, zero interest for 90 days."
 Tiffany is not alone in using this kind of inducement. This holiday season, shoppers can take home a $6,000 Tibetan rug from ABC Carpet and Home in the Flatiron district and not begin paying for it until January 2004. Or they can get interest-free financing -- and not just from mass-market jewelers like Zale's, but also from chains like Fortunoff or from smaller stores like Michael Eigen on Madison Avenue. 
 In New York, especially, retailers have every reason to be jittery this season, and many are turning to strategies like extended credit to lure customers.
With the city still suffering the consequences of last year's terrorist attack and the loss of thousands of Wall Street jobs, consumer confidence remains considerably lower in New York than in the rest of the nation, according to the Siena College Research Institute in Loudonville, N.Y. Hanukkah, more significant in New York than elsewhere because of the city's large Jewish population, took place earlier than in most years, and foreign tourists have still not returned in large numbers.
Adding to retailers' problems is the fact that Thanksgiving -- the traditional start of the Christmas season -- was relatively late. "People are going to have less time to do their shopping," said Michael Gould, the chief executive of Bloomingdale's. "They're going to take care of their gift buying, but they may not have as much time to spend on buying for themselves."
Many merchants began cutting prices in mid-November. "In our 113-year history," said Mitchell B. Modell, chief executive of the New York-based chain Modell's Sporting Goods, "we have more things on sale than we ever had. We never took markdowns as early as we're taking them today."
Like others, Mr. Modell has also had to deal with effects of the recent strike by West Coast port operators. Soccer and hockey games from Asia arrived too late to be included in the company's advertising circulars, so "we're selling them almost at cost," he said.
The strike has also affected Mxyplyzyk, a novelty and housewares store in Greenwich Village. "We've had much later delivery of products," said Kevin Brynan, a co-owner.
Outside Saks Fifth Avenue one recent frigid afternoon, the hallmarks of holidays past were all in place: with a Salvation Army rendition of "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" wafting across the sidewalk, crowds were lining up to get a close look at ornately decorated windows depicting the ballet "Sleeping Beauty."
In the store, sales racks filled the floors and merchandise was being offered at 25 percent to 40 percent off. A black Armani suit that was originally priced at $2,025 was on sale for $1,214, and a sequined Isabella Fiore bag was reduced to $224 from $335. Even with the steep markdowns, one saleswoman confided, business was slow.
A few blocks away, Bergdorf Goodman had reduced prices on many items by 40 percent, but one customer, Geri Boxer, said she never bought gifts just because they were on sale. "You should buy things that people will like," she said. "If it costs a little more, so what?"
For younger people, especially, the steady stream of ominous news -- the threat of war with Iraq, the United Airlines bankruptcy, widespread layoffs -- is keeping confidence low, said Douglas Lonnstrom, the director of the Siena College Research Institute. "There's a generation of people," he said, "who until last year never saw tough times."
Dr. Lonnstrom said that consumer confidence in New York State was lagging behind the national average because the Northeast, except for New York City, never really bounced back from the 1991 recession.
Last month, consumer confidence across the nation rose 3.6 points to 84.2, but fell one point in New York State, to 72.3. In New York City, overall consumer confidence is at 71.1. (The state index is based on a November survey of 620 residents. Results are measured against a base line of 100 points that represents average consumer confidence in 1996.)
In addition to reducing prices, merchants are trying other ideas. Saks has beefed up its corporate gift program and its designer accessories department. Old Navy has lined hundreds of taxicab seats with fleece, and has promised to donate fleece and outerwear to the New York Cares annual coat drive for the homeless every time someone rides in a "Fleece Fleet" taxi.
Bergdorf Goodman is working to accommodate out-of-town customers who are not traveling to New York this season, said Ronald Frasch, the chief executive. "We've flown custom-suit sellers and tailors to San Francisco," he said. "If they're not coming to us," he said of West Coast customers, "hopefully we can go to them." In the store on weekends, two groups that normally perform in subway stations are giving concerts.
These days, said Arnold H. Aronson, the managing director for retail strategy at Kurt Salmon Associates, retailers know they need to give consumers an incentive to shop. Some, like Tiffany, have chosen easy-payment terms. With interest rates low, "that's the cheapest markdown you can give," Mr. Aronson said.
A Tiffany spokeswoman, who declined to be interviewed, said by e-mail that the extended credit program was introduced in the late 1980's. But several retail industry experts said they had not heard of it.
Luxury retailers who offer extended credit are seeking to expand their customer base beyond those who are considered recession-proof, said Scott Krugman, a spokesman for the National Retail Federation. "They are reaching out to consumers they might not have been able to have before," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In what has turned out to be a less than booming retail period, customers at Bergdorf Goodman last week checked out racks of shoes at prices that were already reduced. (Monika Graff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); JEWELRY (77%); HANUKKAH (76%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); THANKSGIVING (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%); PRICE CUTTING (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (61%); SOCCER (60%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (51%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ABC HOME FURNISHINGS INC (57%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



295 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
Old Animosities Arise In the New Economics

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass

 BODY:
Given the economy, Tom Glavine said yesterday, he thinks the Mets gave him a very fair contract. Glavine got a raise, from an average of $8.4 million a year in his previous contract with the Atlanta Braves to $11.7 million a year with the Mets.
 Robin Ventura did not fare as well in re-signing with the Yankees, He accepted a cut in pay from $8.25 million last season to $5 million for next season, but he was happy that the Yankees invited him back. 
 On the other hand, Edgardo Alfonzo and Mike Stanton will not be back with their teams, and they are not happy with the offers that precipitated their departures, Alfonzo from the Mets, Stanton from the Yankees. 
Welcome, free agents, to baseball's new economics.
"It's a new economic world," said one agent who has experienced it.
The question that agents and players' lawyers are asking, among themselves for now, is whether the new economics are the result of legitimate activity by clubs individually or if the clubs might actually be colluding in violation of the collective bargaining agreement.
"It happens after every basic agreement," said one lawyer who is close to various players.
He meant that, in his opinion, the clubs look for a way to maneuver around newly negotiated agreements. It certainly happened after the 1985 agreement, when the clubs acted in collusion against free agents. Two arbitrators found that the clubs did it not only after the 1985 season but also after the 1986 and 1987 seasons, and the owners' actions cost them $280 million in a settlement with the union.
Baseball officials scoff at the idea that they are engaged in any duplicitous dealings with players. They say the union has always said the market should determine players' salaries but that when the market dictates lower salaries, the union cries foul.
Officials and owners denied collusion in the 1980's, and the only management person who ever publicly acknowledged that the owners had violated the agreement was Fay Vincent, the former commissioner, who wasn't in baseball then and isn't now.
Contract offers are down this off-season, baseball officials say, for two reasons -- the state of the general economy and the new labor agreement's luxury tax. Everybody wants to stay, or get, under the $117 million payroll threshold over which the tax takes effect.
That may be the goal, but the players' lawyer maintained that tax avoidance cannot fully explain what is going on at the moment because only three teams were over the $117 million threshold in 2002, with five others at or over the $100 million mark.
Some years ago, the clubs ran an information bank into which clubs deposited details of offers they made to free agents. If Club Z wanted to know what Club A offered Player X, it would simply call one of baseball's labor relations people and find out. An arbitrator ended the bank by ruling that it violated the labor agreement.
But agents suspect that the clubs are still using some kind of bank, although they can't provide any specifics. Another lawyer close to players noted that clubs can simply resort to telling reporters the contents of their contract offers to free agents and letting the reporters spread the word.
Agents, of course, are not above using reporters, too, usually to create the impression that there is more of a market for a player than there really is.
The second lawyer for players suggested that in the current climate, teams are trying to send a message to players that there's a lot less money out there than one might think, and if you want some of it, you better grab it now because it's not going to be there for long. Nonsense, management officials respond.
Look at Glavine's three-year, $35 million contract, they say. Look at the six-year, $85 million contract Jim Thome signed with Philadelphia. But Thome's contract is not as lucrative as contracts signed a year and two years ago by comparable hitters, hitters like Jason Giambi and Carlos Delgado and Jeff Bagwell, who each signed for about $3 million a year more than Thome.
All of this may be a market correction. If it isn't, management could face treble damages.
On the day that he was unveiled in a black Mets uniform shirt and cap, Glavine was not in a mood to put on his union hat and discuss the new economics. The union's longtime National League player representative, Glavine was asked if he thought his contract would have been more lucrative a year or two ago.
"I don't know," he said. "Maybe. The economy is going to make teams make changes."
The Mets let Alfonzo go because they offered him the going rate for third basemen -- David Bell recently signed a four-year deal for $17 million -- and Alfonzo wanted much more, $17 million for two years compared with the $11 million the Mets were offering. "We're running it as a business," said Jeff Wilpon, the Mets' chief operating officer. "We have a business plan."
An agent, in assessing the Alfonzo case, acknowledged that the Mets, in this instance, were doing nothing more than stealing a page from the players. "It used to be players comparing themselves to Players A, B and C," he said. "Now it's the clubs doing it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Stanton, right, will not be handing the baseball to Joe Torre any more after refusing the Yankees' offer. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); LAWYERS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) GEORGIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



296 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Sell Military Gear to Algeria to Help It Fight Militants 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
The Bush administration will sell equipment to the military-backed government of Algeria to help combat Islamic militants, administration officials said today. The militants have engaged in a violent uprising since an Islamic political party was banned in the early 1990's. 
 The officials said that no decisions had been made on how large the package of military equipment might be, or what would be sold, but that items were likely to include night-vision gear for use by individuals or on military vehicles. 
 An American official said the United States would proceed slowly on the military aid package, in part because of the criticism by human rights groups, which have accused Algeria of brutality on its crackdown over the past 10 years. More than 100,000 people have reportedly been killed in violence during the past decade; some put the number at 150,000.
There is also heightened sensitivity in the administration to being perceived as anti-Islamic at a time when there is talk of a war against Iraq and increased violence in the Middle East.
"Thus far, no lethal equipment has been authorized, but down the road we might consider it," said an official. "We will consider requests if we believe they contribute to the counterterrorism effort."
William Burns, assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and northern African affairs, said in Algiers that the United States was drafting a proposal for Congress on increasing military aid.
"These steps aim at intensifying the security cooperation between the countries," he said. "Washington has much to learn from Algeria on ways to fight terrorism."
The United States has had no aid program for Algeria since at least 1992, when the government canceled an election that was apparently won by the militant Islamic Salvation Front. That party was banned when the election was called off.
The government crackdown spiraled into a civil war between the Algerian military and the insurgents. Government forces moved in to control large areas of the country, and the guerrillas retaliated with bombings and other attacks. 
In the last year and a half, American officials say the violence has subsided. President Abdelaziz Bouteflika has won praise from the Bush administration for his economic reforms, and after the attacks of Sept. 2001 he was one of the first Muslim leaders to offer help to the United States in its campaign against terrorism. 
"Sept. 11 has caused us to re-evaluate a lot of our security relations in the Middle East," an American official said.
A United States official said today that there was no clear evidence that Al Qaeda had operated in Algeria. However, he said similar groups the United States wanted to pursue had found a home in Algeria.
Until now, the only program of military cooperation with Algeria has offered military training and education to officers. An American official said $121,000 was spent on the program in 2001, and another $200,000 would be spent this year. Next year the program's cost is to grow to $550,000.
Officials said the program allowed Algerian officers to learn from the United States about how to avoid human rights abuses in their crackdown on militants at home.
"The cooperation has been excellent," said an American official. "The Algerians have been helpful to us in general, and we want to be helpful to them."
In fighting against the Islamic rebellion, Algeria has said that it would be able to use more modern equipment, like attack helicopters. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 12, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a decision by the United States to sell the military-backed government of Algeria equipment to combat Islamic militants referred to the equipment incorrectly in some copies. It consists not of weapons but of devices for military use, like night-vision aids. The United States has not authorized the sale of weapons to Algeria.
An article on Tuesday about a decision by the United States to sell the military-backed government of Algeria equipment to combat Islamic militants referred to the equipment incorrectly in some copies. It consists not of weapons but of devices for military use, like night-vision aids. The United States has not authorized the sale of weapons to Algeria.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ALGERIA (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



297 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Sifting the Evidence on Baghdad 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The American pressure on Hans Blix and his United Nations inspection team to aid defections in Iraq is unseemly (front page, Dec. 6). Worse, such pressure is completely unnecessary if, as the administration has been claiming all along, there is already enough clear evidence to warrant going to war. 
 If that evidence is so abundant and convincing, why not simply give it all to the inspectors and let them immediately verify it? Such a move could make transparent the shell game that Iraq is supposedly playing with its contraband resources.
If the evidence exists, it would provide a basis of certainty for proceeding to attack Iraq. If the evidence is not confirmed, then it will be time for this nation to return its focus to the war on terror and to our collapsing economy.

JOSEPH CAVANAGH
Stafford Springs, Conn., Dec. 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); TERRORISM (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CAVANAGH, JOSEPH; BLIX, HANS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



298 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
GUCCI REDUCES PROJECTION AFTER SLOWDOWN IN SALES

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 The Gucci Group, the world's third-largest maker of luxury goods, cut its fiscal-year earnings forecast by as much as 23 percent after a slowdown in November sales growth fueled concern about year-end holiday revenue. 
Earnings per share will be as little as 2 euros ($2.02) in the year ending Jan. 31, compared with 2.60 euros expected earlier, the chief executive, Domenico de Sole, said. "November was a difficult month," he said. "We are concerned about what is going to happen over the next couple of weeks." Mr. De Sole cited concern about a war in Iraq and unemployment in the United States as reasons for the slower-than-expected growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HANDBAG & PURSE MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (54%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (97%)

ORGANIZATION: GUCCI GROUP N V (GUC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (97%) SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); IRAQ (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



299 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER: NOTEBOOK; 
Avalanche of Goals In Men's Tournament

BYLINE:  By JACK BELL

 BODY:
There were 93 goals in the 40 N.C.A.A. Division I men's tournament matches leading up to last weekend's quarterfinals. Then 21 goals were scored in those four matches, with U.C.L.A. setting a team record for goals in a tournament match in its 7-1 thrashing of Penn State. The Bruins scored six times in the second half, with the junior striker MATT TAYLOR collecting three goals and two assists.
 The fourth-ranked Bruins (16-3-3) are coached by TOM FITZGERALD, the former coach of the Columbus Crew of Major League Soccer. U.C.L.A. will play No. 2 Maryland (17-6) in one of the semifinals Friday at Gerald J. Ford Stadium in Dallas. Maryland advanced to the College Cup semifinals for the first time since 1998 with a 3-0 victory over Connecticut on two goals by the sophomore striker DOMENIC MEDIATE. Mediate has scored all four of the Terrapins' goals in the tournament. (UConn was charged with an own goal.) 
 Creighton (18-3-2) erupted for six goals in Boston to eliminate Boston College, 6-2, and set up an interesting semifinal against Stanford (17-4-2), which is coached by BRET SIMON, Creighton's former coach. No. 9 Stanford advanced to the semifinals for the second straight season on goals by ROGER LEVESQUE and JOHANES MALIZA. While he was at Creighton, Simon and the Blue Jays advanced to the semifinals in 1996 and 2000.

METROSTARS
 The MetroStars' bid for state subsidies to help build a new stadium in Harrison, N.J., was set back last week when a New Jersey Senate committee decided to delay a vote on the bill. The vote has not been rescheduled. The plan had been approved by the State Assembly, but State Senator BERNARD F. KENNY Jr., a Hoboken Democrat, withdrew his proposal from the agenda of the Senate Economic Growth, Agriculture and Tourism Committee.
 Support for the bill melted away when committee members discovered that New Jersey Attorney General DAVID SAMSON had sued four companies, including Qwest. PHILIP ANSCHUTZ, who operates the MetroStars through the Anschutz Entertainment Group, was one of 10 Qwest executives named in a suit that alleges the state's pension funds lost $167 million because of accounting irregularities after the value of Qwest shares declined. In January 2000, Qwest was selling at $65 a share; it now trades for less than $5 a share.
 The MetroStars, who play at Giants Stadium, had hoped to move into the new stadium in 2005. The club continues its search for a training facility to replace the one at Kean University in Union, N.J., and has been approached by a businessman who is interested in developing a site in Pequannock, N.J.
 In other off-the-field developments, the club has been in discussions with D.C. United about a deal to acquire the Bolivian striker JAIME MORENO, United's career leading scorer. Moreno played for D.C. United when BOB BRADLEY, the MetroStars' new coach, was an assistant to BRUCE ARENA. STEVE JOLLEY had been expected to sign a new deal with M.L.S. and the MetroStars, but now he could be part of the trade for Moreno.
 MAMADOU DIALLO failed to impress his new Saudi club, Al-Ahly, and was dropped nearly two weeks ago. Diallo was transferred by M.L.S. from the MetroStars in a deal worth more than $500,000 last September.

EUROPE
 Arsenal, the leader in the English Premier League, had to play most of the game with its third-string goalkeeper, STUART TAYLOR, in its 2-0 loss at Manchester United. The starter, DAVID SEAMAN, was out with an injury and the backup, RAMI SHAABAN, was forced to leave with an injury. SHAABAN was born in Sweden to a Finnish mother and an Egyptian father. He could play internationally for any of those three nations.
 Also in England, Liverpool dropped to fourth place after a 2-0 loss to Charlton. Liverpool has taken only 4 points from its last eight matches. Chelsea is the hottest team in the Premier League, moving up to second after going unbeaten in its last six matches.
 In Germany, the Paraguayan international Roque Santa Cruz scored two goals as Bayern Munich increased its lead in the Bundesliga to 8 points. Yesterday, Bayern extended Santa Cruz's contract, which was to expire in 2004, through 2006.

MANCHESTER UNITED
 It is finally official: Manchester United is coming to the United States next summer for the first time since the early 1980's and will play four matches, two on the West Coast and two on the East Coast.
 The Red Devils will play Glasgow Celtic of Scotland at Seahawks Stadium in Seattle on July 22; Club America of Mexico at the Memorial Coliseum in Los Angeles on July 27; Juventus of Italy at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., on July 31; and Barcelona of Spain at the new Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia on Aug. 3.
 Barcelona also announced an additional game, against Juventus on Aug. 3 at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Mass., as part of a marketing agreement between the club and the N.F.L.

CORNER KICKS
 "Our Way,"the story of the United States' run to the quarterfinals of the 2002 World Cup, will soon be at www.ussoccerstore.com. The VHS version ($30) will be released tomorrow, with the DVD version ($30) available next Monday.
 FIFA has selected an alternate to the United Arab Emirates as the site for the under-20 world championships in case of a war in the Middle East. FIFA, however, has declined to name the alternate site. The United States and England have qualified for the tournament, which is from March 26 to April 16. JACK BELL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); RANKINGS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (63%); APPROVALS (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); ACCOUNTING (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%); CREIGHTON UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON BRUINS (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (82%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%)

PERSON: PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



300 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Corzine to Lead Democrats' Bid to Take Over Senate in 2004

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Buoyed by an election victory in Louisiana, Senate Democrats today put Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey in charge of their effort to recapture the Senate in 2004.
 Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, named Mr. Corzine, a former Wall Street executive, as chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee with Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan appointed vice chairwoman. 
 Mr. Corzine, who spent $60 million of his own fortune in his 2000 campaign, will be responsible for recruiting candidates and raising money in the first elections to be held under new campaign finance laws meant to reduce the influence of soft money. 
He promised a disciplined effort and said the victory by Mary L. Landrieu in Saturday's runoff in Louisiana showed that Democrats could win by taking strong stands on the economy and drawing sharp contrasts with Republicans.
"And we can do that across this country," Mr. Corzine said.
He acknowledged that his job would be challenging in an election cycle when a Republican president would be up for re-election and Democrats would be defending 19 Senate seats compared with 15 for Republicans.
After losing control of the Senate and losing seats in the House in the Nov. 5 election, dispirited Democrats took comfort in Saturday's victory by Ms. Landrieu and in the narrow victory by a Democrat House candidate, Rodney Alexander. Ms. Landrieu's triumph over Suzanne Haik Terrell was particularly sweet, coming over a challenger with strong White House backing. 
"I think it proves without a doubt that Democrats can win anywhere in the country," said Mr. Daschle, who declared that Democrats had a new "bounce in our step."
He said it was a myth that the election last month represented an "overwhelming victory" for Republicans, who now control Congress and the White House.
Republican operatives, while crediting Democrats for the Louisiana victories, say those are not enough to undo the earlier results.
"Louisiana was a nice little comeback for them, but frankly it was an incumbent Democrat senator in a state that has never elected a Republican," said Charles Black, a veteran Republican strategist. 
Mr. Black said the fact remained that Nov. 5 was the first time a Republican president had gained House seats in a midterm election or gained control of the Senate in those circumstances.
"The historic nature of the Nov. 5 elections still stands," he said.
There was one immediate practical benefit for Democrats. Mr. Daschle said he and Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the incoming majority leader, agreed today that Republicans would have a one-seat majority on all committees given the 51-to-48 breakdown of the Senate. (One senator, James M. Jeffords of Vermont, is an independent who votes with the Democrats for organizational purposes.) Had the Republican won, Mr. Lott might have pushed for two seats. Still, some junior Democrats, like Mr. Corzine, might lose committee positions when the panels are shuffled. 
Though the elections took place only a month ago, the preparation for critical 2004 races is moving ahead. Republicans have already named Senator George Allen of Virginia to head their Senate campaign arm and Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York to lead the House campaign organization.
Representative Nancy Pelosi, the new House Democratic leader, said that she would soon name her party's campaign leader for the House.
Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, seeking more say in the party leadership, are backing the candidacy of Representative William J. Jefferson of Louisiana, pointing to the role he and other black lawmakers played in Saturday's outcome. Representative Martin Frost of Texas, who initially opposed Ms. Pelosi in the leadership race and formerly headed the committee, is also being pushed by some.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle, left, named Senator Jon Corzine yesterday to be chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%) CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: JON CORZINE (94%); TOM DASCHLE (90%); MARY LANDRIEU (89%); DEBBIE STABENOW (88%); TRENT LOTT (78%); RODNEY ALEXANDER (58%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); CORZINE, JON S (SEN); STABENOW, DEBBIE (SEN); LANDRIEU, MARY (SEN); LOTT, TRENT (SEN); TERRELL, SUZANNE HAIK; HULSE, CARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; LOUISIANA

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



301 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Governors Push for Bigger Role in Party Policy 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
The nation's Democratic governors demanded a greater role from Congressional Democratic leaders today in formulating policy and making the party's case to voters. They proclaimed that they had earned a more prominent platform after an election in which they made gains against a strong Republican tide.
 The governors, here for the winter meeting of Democratic Governors Association, said they now expected to have a voice in drafting the Democratic Party response to President Bush's economic plan -- and they criticized Congressional leaders for not challenging Mr. Bush's tax cuts during the election. 
 Repeatedly portraying themselves as the new spokesmen for the beleaguered party, the governors also won agreement from Democratic Congressional leaders to let a Democratic governor offer the televised rebuttal to Mr. Bush's State of the Union address, and give every fourth response to Mr. Bush's weekly's radio addresses.
"What you are seeing here is an effort by the Democratic governors on the national stage -- and certainly on the Democratic stage -- to have more influence on message and policy," said Bill Richardson, the governor-elect of New Mexico, who has also been a cabinet secretary and a member of the House. "I see Democratic governors now as the foremost policy entity and muscle in the Democratic Party, so we should be developing policy and message a lot more actively. And that's what's going to happen."
Ed Rendell, the governor-elect of Pennsylvania, said Congressional Democrats should welcome the assistance of the 24 Democratic governors as they prepared for the election for 2004.
"Politically they're glad to see us, but I don't know if they're going to enjoy being pushed," said Mr. Rendell, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "But we should push them respectfully, understanding that they have got their own responsibilities."
The assertions of authority by this feisty new class of Democratic governors, in interviews and news conferences throughout the day, came at a time of generally depressed spirits in the party.
The Democratic governors promoted their political dominance, noting, for example, that they would preside over 53 percent of the population. Still, with the White House and both houses of Congress now in Republican hands, there is little indication that Democrats will get much of a hearing for the policies that the governors want to help formulate.
As the governors pushed to gain new clout in Washington, 150 Democratic House members began a two-day meeting with economists in an effort to come to an agreement on a Democratic platform. In the next Congress, said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, who will be the party's whip, "Democrats will draw sharp, clear distinctions from the Republican agenda."
Senator Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, and Representative Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco, the incoming House minority leader, said they welcomed an increased role for the governors.
"Governors are on the front lines -- you have unique and critical insights into the most urgent public policy debates in America," Mr. Daschle said in a statement. "For everyone's sake, you need to have a stronger voice in those debates and I think we should start raising the volume now by having a Democratic governor deliver our party's response this year to the president's State of the Union Message in January."
In truth, for all their preening today, the Democratic governors did not do that well in Election Day. They had expected to win a majority of the governorships; they ended up winning 24 -- though that was an increase from 21.
The Republicans will control 26 governorships, down from 27.
But in an election where Democrats suffered losses in the House and Senate, the Democratic governors today were pointing to those results as evidence that they had waged better campaigns than Congressional candidates -- and thus deserved a bigger say in how business is conducted in Washington.
"We control 24 states -- 13 of the largest 20 states are now managed and governed by Democratic governors," Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa, who won re-election, said this morning in an interview over coffee.
Gov. Gary Locke of Washington, the head of the Democratic Governors Association, leaned over to offer an added bit of information. "And representing 53 percent of the population," he said.
Mr. Vilsack said, "Yeah, I mean this idea of not having hope -- this election is a long way away."
At a luncheon with editors and reporters of The New York Times, Gov. Ronnie Musgrove of Mississippi and Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey said that the governors did better last month because they presented a clearer message to voters -- and that Democrats in Washington would be wise to take a lesson from that.
"I believe that we focused on a message that mattered to people," Mr. Musgrove said. "The message has been consistent over time: People are concerned about their jobs."
Mr. McGreevey said, "Democratic governors focused with clarity on the economy, which was politically important."
And he went on: "I think that the Bush tax cut provided a unique opportunity for Democrats to clearly delineate where each of the respective parties ought to have stood."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, left, and Gov. Ronnie Musgrove of Mississippi yesterday in Washington discussing their plans for a wider role for governors in formulating Democratic Party policy. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (62%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC GOVERNOR'S ASSN 

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); STENY HOYER (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); ED RENDELL (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); PELOSI, NANCY (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



302 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL AT THE TREASURY: THE OVERVIEW; 
Nominee Tackles His First Day as Economic Salesman

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
President Bush named John W. Snow today as the next Treasury secretary, and Mr. Snow quickly took up the mantle of chief economic salesman by reaching out to lawmakers as the administration prepares to send Congress new proposals to shore up the flagging economy.
 Mr. Bush said Mr. Snow, the chairman of the CSX Corporation, would be the senior member of his reconstituted economic team, at the center of an administration effort to outline "specific steps to increase the momentum of our economic recovery." 
 Administration and Congressional officials said the White House plan would include an acceleration of the personal income tax rate reductions included in last year's $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut, and other measures to help investors and spur business investment. 
Mr. Bush offered Mr. Snow the job in a phone call on Friday evening. The two first met nearly two years ago at an economic forum Mr. Bush held in Austin, Tex., as he prepared to take office, and discussed the treasury post at some point before Mr. Bush extended the offer. But administration officials said the two men did not know each other well.
"I look forward to working with John Snow as we move forward on a jobs and growth package," Mr. Bush said. "He and I share a basic conviction: We believe the strength of our economy lies with the unmatched enterprise and creativity and hard work of the American people."
Using language that has become code among conservatives for support of tax cuts, Mr. Snow promised to pursue a "pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda." 
Still, people who have worked with Mr. Snow said he was more of a pragmatist than an ideological supply-sider, and that he would prove willing to make some accommodations with moderates in both parties to advance Mr. Bush's policies in Congress, including further tax cuts.
On domestic economic policy, Mr. Snow is known as a champion of deregulation and a critic of big punitive legal awards against corporations. He has been outspoken in calling for controlling budget deficits. 
He was also among the most outspoken chief executives over the past year about the importance of improved business ethics and tightened management standards following corporate scandals at Enron and other companies.
It is unclear whether Mr. Snow will bring any major changes to international economic policy, a field in which he has limited expertise. Analysts said he was unlikely to seek any immediate change in the administration's support for a strong dollar, which helps hold down inflation but hurts exporters.
He will also be inheriting a policy of limiting international bailouts of troubled economies in developing countries, a policy that his predecessor, Paul H. O'Neill was forced to set aside over the last two years for nations including Turkey, Brazil and Argentina.
The nomination was praised by many of Mr. Snow's fellow chief executives. John Dillon, chairman of the International Paper Company, called Mr. Snow "a seasoned business executive, an articulate public spokesman and a committed public servant who understands the economy, the needs of working men and women and the public policy process."
Rick A. Lazio, the former Republican congressman from Long Island who is now chief executive of the Financial Services Forum, a group representing the heads of 21 of the largest financial services companies, said there was "a good deal of enthusiasm on the part of Wall Street" for Mr. Snow's nomination.
Mr. Snow moved quickly to deal with the first questions raised about his background. Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said Mr. Snow had decided to resign from the Augusta National Golf Club, the home of the Masters golf tournament, which has no women as members. Mr. Fleischer said that Mr. Bush did not view Mr. Snow's membership in the club as a "disqualifying matter" and that Mr. Snow had decided to resign from Augusta on his own.
In many ways, Mr. Snow, 63, resembles the man he will replace, who resigned under pressure from the White House on Friday. Like Mr. O'Neill, Mr. Snow is an old-line industrialist who is well known in business circles but hardly a household name. Like Mr. O'Neill, he cut his teeth in government and public policy during stints in the Nixon and Ford administrations.
White House officials have made clear that they expect Mr. Snow to hew closely to the administration line in a way that Mr. O'Neill often had trouble doing. They said Mr. Snow was chosen with an eye toward his ability to be a team player.
"The successful cabinet secretary in this administration argues persuasively in the Oval Office for his or her point of view, and argues equally persuasively or more so outside the Oval Office for the president's point of view," a senior administration official said.
The appointment was the first step by Mr. Bush in rebuilding his economic team. He is expected to announce sometime this week that Stephen Friedman, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, will replace Lawrence B. Lindsey, who resigned on Friday as director of the White House's National Economic Council. Mr. Bush is also expected to move soon to appoint a new chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission to replace Harvey L. Pitt, who resigned last month.
One of Mr. Snow's first jobs was to begin repairing the frayed relationship between the Treasury Department and lawmakers from both parties on Capitol Hill, some of whom had feuded openly with Mr. O'Neill or found him difficult to deal with. 
By midday, Mr. Fleischer said, Mr. Snow had called at least 20 members of Congress.
Republicans in Congress praised the choice and said they looked forward to working with Mr. Snow, whose confirmation hearings are likely to be one of the Senate's first orders of business when it reconvenes in January. Democrats said Mr. Snow had some impressive qualifications, but that he would be the spokesman for a flawed fiscal policy. 
"I know Mr. Snow," said Senator Jon Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey. "He is a disciplined, excellent manager, and he will be formidable in his presentation of the president's case."
But Mr. Corzine and other Democrats said that the administration's focus on more tax cuts, especially for wealthy people, was the wrong move no matter who was presenting it.
"It isn't the names, but the plan that is of concern to us," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader. "Trickle-down economics doesn't work."
Administration officials and Congressional aides said the White House has settled on the outlines of the economic recovery plan that Mr. Bush intends to send soon to Congress. They said it would include: a reduction in the tax on stock dividends paid by individuals; increased tax incentives for businesses to invest in new equipment; and an acceleration of the personal income tax rate reductions included in last year's tax cut. 
But Mr. Snow, assuming he is confirmed by the Senate, will no doubt have to address the demands of Democrats and some moderate Republicans that the plan do more for low-income workers. Democrats seek a temporary suspension of the payroll tax levied on all workers as a step in that direction.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John W. Snow took questions yesterday after President Bush selected him as his new Treasury secretary. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS ETHICS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); US DOLLAR (69%); ETHICS (69%); GOLF (69%); SCANDALS (65%); CONSERVATISM (64%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; GOLF; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (72%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; AUGUSTA NATIONAL GOLF CLUB; CSX CORP 

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (72%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (72%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (72%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SNOW, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



303 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Long To-Do List forNew Economic Team 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
If the to-do list for President Bush's new economic advisers were limited to explaining his policies more successfully than their predecessors did and persuading a Republican Congress to cut taxes, they might be facing a fairly simple task.
 But John W. Snow, the nominee for Treasury secretary, and Stephen Friedman, the leading candidate to be Mr. Bush's economic point man in the White House, will be greeted in Washington by a much broader array of challenges. They highlight the tension between the free-market policies that the administration's business supporters favor and their equal desire for an old-fashioned government boost to growth. 
 In their new jobs, Mr. Snow and Mr. Friedman will have to meld the Bush administration's preference for tax cuts that affect the economy primarily over the long term with its desire to jump-start growth before the 2004 election.
They will continue the administration's push, along with other officials, for lower trade barriers in other countries while confronting foreign executives and policy makers angered by recent tariffs enacted in this country.
And they will be faced with the near collapse of large parts of some crucial industries, including airlines, energy and telecommunications, each of which could provide tempting if vexing possibilities for government intervention. Just hours before Mr. Snow's introduction by the president yesterday and his call for "a pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda," United Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection, jeopardizing some of the company's 81,000 jobs.
In every case, Mr. Bush's conservative economic philosophy and his political need to reverse two years of rising unemployment could come into conflict, with Mr. Snow and Mr. Friedman left to offer explanations. 
"You need a slick salesman," said Ian S. Morris, chief domestic economist at HSBC, the large bank. "The Bush team is going to sell their tax cut as if it is an important part of boosting the economy. In truth, these kind of tax cuts are more useful in the long run."
Administration officials are preparing a fiscal package that is expected to include a reduction in taxes on stock dividends, an easing of the rules for corporate deductions on investments in new equipment and probably an acceleration of personal tax cuts now scheduled for 2004 and 2006. With the White House expected to be preoccupied with Iraq, Mr. Snow, the chairman of the CSX Corporation, a railroad company, and Mr. Friedman, formerly the co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, would become the leading advocates for the plan, on Capitol Hill and in the public eye.
Many Democrats are calling for an extension of unemployment benefits and a suspension of the payroll tax. Economists disagree about the overall wisdom of such measures, but generally agree they do more to increase economic growth quickly than Mr. Bush's new tax cuts, which mostly affect wealthier Americans.
Although frustrated by the economy's performance, business leaders have largely been pleased with the administration's record so far. It has consistently sided with management during labor disputes, and it won passage of the biggest tax cut in two decades.
Mr. Snow and Mr. Friedman will not change the administration's thrust, officials say, but they will face difficult decisions -- about rising health care costs, federal and state budget deficits and other issues -- that were largely avoided during the exuberant 1990's.
With the Republicans in control of both houses of Congress and the Federal Reserve wary of more interest rate cuts, the administration could bear an unusual amount of responsibility for the economy's direction. The Fed has cut its benchmark short-term rate 12 times since early last year, to encourage consumer and business spending, but it has only slight room to take further steps, with the rate now at 1.25 percent, many economists say.
That will tend to increase the profiles of Mr. Snow and Mr. Friedman as protectors of the fragile recovery, and decrease that of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman.
"The top three issues facing this economic team are No. 1, economic growth; No. 2, economic growth; and No. 3, economic growth," said John J. Castellani, president of the Business Roundtable, a group of executives that Mr. Snow once led.
"When our C.E.O.'s looked at the economic outlook for next year and beyond, they did not see a return to robust economic growth," Mr. Castellani said.
Like President Bill Clinton and his advisers, Bush administration officials have tried to help American companies, and lift economic growth, by opening up new markets to their products. But the administration's introduction of steel and agricultural tariffs has complicated the effort. 
"On the one hand, they try to be the champion of free trade," said Murillo de Aragao, president of Arko Advice, a consulting firm in Brazil that advises American companies there. "And on the other hand, they fiercely protect American industries."
Mr. Snow and Mr. Friedman will be the ones to balance the ideals of free trade with the political problems that often arise when American industries lose jobs to other countries. Neither will be directly responsible for negotiating treaties -- which is the job of Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative -- but top economic advisers usually play a role in the decision.
When Mr. Bush imposed taxes on foreign steel companies, for example, some economic advisers tried to persuade him not to do it, officials say. 
"The biggest challenge is how to reinvigorate domestic growth while at the same helping the global economy." said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. "That's a fairly complicated problem."
The weakness of large industries that are partly regulated by the government could also present complicated decisions about intervention. With the exception of Southwest Airlines, every large airline is losing large amounts of money, and United Airlines and US Airways have both sought bankruptcy protection, joining a long list of telecommunications and energy companies. 
United sought bankruptcy protection only after a federal board rejected its request for $1.8 billion in loan guarantees. Requests from other carriers might follow. Strikes are another possibility as airline executives try to lower the industry's wages.
Since the Depression, the nation's economy has rarely remained weak for four consecutive years, as would be the case if it failed to improve from now to 2004. But it also has rarely been saddled with the imbalances that were created during the 1990's bubble.
More than any personal traits of Mr. Snow or Mr. Friedman, the speed with which those imbalances disappear is likely to determine how successful they are considered.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bush administration has introduced tariffs on steel to curb imports and save jobs, like that of Sam Sullivan, who is feeding a coil of steel at Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel's mill in Allenport, Pa. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); AIRLINES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); DIVIDENDS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (80%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (80%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (80%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (80%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; FRIEDMAN, STEPHEN; SNOW, JOHN W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



304 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
United Begins the Task Of Trying to Reorganize
Still grasping for a plan that would return itself to profitability, United Airlines became the biggest airline and one of the largest American companies ever to seek bankruptcy protection from its creditors. Under pressure from its lenders for quick action to cut costs, the company said its first step would be to turn once again to its workers for deep concessions.
 The bankruptcy filing gives United more time to look for cures to its ills. But experts said the answers are no more obvious now than they have been since United's losses started mounting two years ago during a downturn that revealed just how unprepared traditional hub-and-spoke airlines were for the challenge from low-cost airlines. Page A1. 

Snow Picked for Treasury Post
President Bush named John W. Snow, left, as the next Treasury secretary, and Mr. Snow quickly took up the mantle of chief economic salesman as the administration prepares proposals to shore up the economy. Mr. Snow, the head of the CSX Corporation, is a middle-of-the-road Republican whose strengths are not his ideological fervor but his skills as a manager and a communicator. A1.

Merck Agrees to Pay $42 Million
Merck & Company agreed to pay $42.5 million to settle class-action lawsuits against its pharmacy-benefit unit, Medco Health Solutions. But lawyers for the plaintiffs were split over whether to accept the agreement. C11.

Kmart Finds New Accounting Errors
Kmart executives have discovered new accounting errors that will require the retailer to restate its earnings over several years, including the current year, the company said. C11.

Cheney Wins Ruling on Energy Panel
Vice President Dick Cheney won a major legal victory when a federal judge threw out a suit brought by the head of the General Accounting Office to force him to release records of the Bush administration's energy task force. A1.

Upbeat Outlook on Ad Spending
Two forecasters are offering more upbeat predictions for a resumption of growth in advertising spending next year, but differ as to just how strong the recovery will be. The rebound will come, the forecasters said, as major marketers in categories like cars, entertainment and packaged foods continue to increase spending. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C10.

Interest Fades in Bayer Unit
Investors began bidding up the shares of Bayer last month as soon as the company abandoned the idea that it could merge its relatively small and weak pharmaceutical unit with another drug maker and retain control of the new company. World Business, Section W.

Tyco Sues 2 Former Executives
Tyco International sued the former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, and the former chief financial officer, Mark H. Swartz, accusing them of making more than $40 million in "short-swing" stock trades. C2.

Canada Life Rejects Takeover Bid
Manulife Financial announced an unsolicited offer of $4.1 billion for Canada Life Financial in a move aimed at making Manulife Canada's biggest insurance company. Canada Life rejected the offer, saying it did not reflect the company's value. The offer is the latest in a flurry of deal-making in the Canadian insurance industry. World Business, Section W.

India to Sell Stakes in 2 Companies
The Indian government said that it would sell stakes in two energy companies as it tries to resume a long-stalled privatization program. World Business, Section W.

New Class of Business Travelers
During the boom times, some hub airports chose to rely on the top-drawer market represented by full-fare business travelers. But travelers well-heeled on corporate budgets are now rare. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,473.41 down 172.36Nasdaq composite -- 1,367.14 down 55.3010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.03% down 0.06The euro -- $1.0106 up 0.0015The dollar -- 123.33 yen down 0.36 Graph tracks Manulife's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (70%); ACCOUNTING (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); LAWYERS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); CLASS ACTIONS (65%); JUDGES (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (83%); BAYER AG (81%); CSX CORP (69%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (59%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (54%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (50%); MANULIFE FINANCIAL CORP (50%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (83%); MRK (NYSE) (83%); BAYN (FRA) (81%); BAY (MCE) (81%); BAY (BIT) (81%); CSX (NYSE) (69%); TYC (NYSE) (50%); MFC (TSX) (50%); MFC (NYSE) (50%); 0945 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (69%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (69%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (59%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (54%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (50%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); DICK CHENEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



305 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: In Venezuela's General Strike, the Pinch Becomes Pain 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: EL HATILLO, Venezuela, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Eight days into a grueling national strike against President Hugo Chavez, businesses like the sprawling Hannsi folk art market in El Hatillo, a colonial town outside Caracas, are feeling the pain.
 During the lucrative Christmas season, as many as 700 people usually can be found filling its 3,000 square yards of space, browsing through pottery, intricately painted Indian masks, carefully woven hammocks and giant sculptures made from rare red woods. But today, the lights were dim, and the only people inside were the general manager, Javier Martin, and a couple of workmen. 
 The store, like hundreds of thousands of businesses across this country, has been shuttered since Dec. 2 as a growing opposition movement continues a national strike that is punishing both the country's left-leaning leader and the very businesses that are taking part. 
"This is a maximum sacrifice," said Mr. Martin, explaining that, while he supports the strike, the loss of what might have been $60,000 in sales in one holiday season week means the store can stay closed only another week or two. "After that, I think we could suffer a complete collapse." 
The costs are indeed high as businesses of all kinds -- from restaurants to malls to banks to Venezuela's crucial oil industry -- adhere to a strike intended to force Mr. Chavez into agreeing to an early election or resigning. The shutdown in the oil industry, which government opponents say has greatly reduced exports, is costing upward of $70 million a day, while economists say the internal economy may be contracting by $250 million daily.
Today, as the strike organizers extended the national walkout yet another day, those taking part received a big morale lift as private banks said they were closing, treasury and customs agents announced their participation and boat pilots on the Orinoco River halted their transport of aluminum and iron.
Gasoline in Caracas and other cities was increasingly scarce, many domestic flights were canceled, and alarmed shoppers stocked up in supermarkets. The Venezuelan subsidiary of the Ford Motor Company said operations that churned out 100 cars a day had been closed down since Wednesday for lack of supplies.
"What threatens us is a true national disaster," Ali Rodriguez, the president of the state oil company, said tonight in a nationally televised address.
What is happening here is a war of attrition, as businessmen hunker down and swallow tremendous losses while a defiant president struggles to operate the sprawling petroleum industry and to return some measure of normality to a battered economy.
But Mr. Chavez faces what political analysts have called a nearly impossible situation. He does not have the workers with know-how to staff oil installations, and an increasing number of people are announcing that they are joining the strike. The economy is already in a tailspin, with American economists predicting it could contract by more than 6 percent by the end of this year.
"This is a waiting game," said Ricardo Hausmann, an economist at Harvard and former planning minister in Venezuela. "It is expensive to hold out, but it is not clear that Chavez can hold out either. This happens in all wars. If you knew you were going to lose, you would not get into it." 
Indeed, while Mr. Chavez has played down the strike -- he has repeatedly mocked his opponents, asking, "What strike?" -- those participating said they were more determined than ever to hold out until the government made major concessions. They contend that Mr. Chavez's left-leaning policies are taking the country to economic ruin.
"I do not want to close for another day, but we have to do it," said Flavio Fasano, who estimates that he has lost $6,000 by closing his dry cleaning stores for the strike. "We have to put up with this until the end. We are losing, but we have to think about the future." 
In Washington, Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, expressed support for talks mediated by the Organization of American States. "We call on all sides to act responsibly, continue to support the dialogue process and reject violence," he said.
The two sides met today to discuss the possibility of an electoral way out of the crisis, a path the opposition wants in order to avoid having to wait until the next presidential election, in 2006. 
Some businessmen were unable to hold out. Octavio Araujo, owner of the Mio Cafe, which does a brisk lunchtime service in central Caracas, said he reopened because creditors were demanding payments.
"We believe in the strike, and we stopped for four days, but we cannot continue because we have too many obligations," Mr. Araujo said.
Still, the strike itself has caused many businesses to remain closed simply because supplies are nowhere to be found. The strike has prompted a cascading effect across the economic chain.
"They don't have raw materials, they don't have this, and they don't have that," said Robert Bottome, editor of Veneconomia, a business newsletter. "You have food markets open, guaranteeing basics. But this 70 percent stoppage, plus the petroleum industry shutdown, means it could go on for a very long time." 
Here in El Hatillo, at the Furniture House, the owner is prepared to ride out the strike to see Mr. Chavez back down. 
Sitting surrounded by expensive cabinets, chairs and tables, the owner, Gloria Mugarra, acknowledged that two more weeks could severely affect her business. But she was prepared to keep her doors closed. "What can we do?" she asked. "We have to hold on or else we will never get rid of this man. This week we will see what happens."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Venezuelans withdrew cash at automated teller machines in Caracas yesterday. Eight days into the general strike, gasoline was becoming scarce, many domestic flights were canceled, and people stocked up on food. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); CHRISTMAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); SALES FIGURES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (74%); RIOTS (73%); STRIKES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (62%); AIRLINES (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LABOR; STRIKES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%) FORERO, JUAN; CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



306 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Plan for Transit Strike: Sharing Burdens and Back Seats 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg laid bare his vision of a New York City without public transportation yesterday, and made clear that he expected ingenuity, pluck and an ample dose of neighborly kindness from each citizen to keep the city functioning if there is a transit strike.
 Under Mr. Bloomberg's plan, drivers would stop at specific zones to pick up strangers, the back seats of taxis would be shared, and the 108th mayor would pedal his way downtown on a 10-speed. And if he does opt to ride in his S.U.V., he said he would be happy to help out in the civic emergency and pick up urban hitchhikers. 
 "People are going to have to be as innovative as they possibly can," Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference at City Hall to present contingency plans for a strike. "You cannot let a group of irresponsible people bring the city to its knees. Nor can we be intimidated by them." 
The mayor warned that the city would take legal and other action to prevent transit workers from going on strike on Monday, an act that would be illegal under the state's Taylor Law.
Both the Transport Workers Union and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority remained far apart yesterday on issues of wages and benefits, with contract talks scheduled to resume tomorrow. Page B6. 
Should the 34,000 transit workers who keep the subways running and the buses moving go on strike, Mr. Bloomberg estimated that it could cost the New York City economy $100 million to $350 million a day.
"A strike would be more than inconvenient," he said. "It would endanger human life and devastate our economy." He said it would also "sabotage the Christmas shopping season." And, he added, if it lasts, it could lead to private-sector layoffs.
Anticipating that many transit riders would turn to the automobile, the Bloomberg administration's plan calls for a variety of roadway restrictions to ensure the flow of car traffic into and around Manhattan, and alternative means of transportation throughout the five boroughs. It includes additional ferry service throughout the city, carpooling staging areas where people can join with others to make their way though town, and more school bus service to help the 1.1 million children in the city's public schools.
The plan also calls for limits on cars entering Manhattan, through a ban on cars with fewer than four passengers during the week and two passengers during the weekend. And it reserves key arterial roadways for emergency vehicles only.
Lanes will be reversed to accommodate more traffic in the morning and evening rush on the Williamsburg and Manhattan Bridges, and in the Brooklyn-Battery, Queens-Midtown and Lincoln Tunnels.
The mayor said he expected some of the service interruptions in the Bronx and Queens to be mitigated by Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road service. The Taxi and Limousine Commission will allow group riding in taxis, and lift the ban on hailing livery cabs along the street.
Although Mr. Bloomberg has little influence over whether a strike occurs -- he has no place at the bargaining table and transit workers report to a state authority -- his administration is keenly aware that he is the one who will take the heat once the trains stop running. How he responds will be the first major test of his leadership in a crisis. 
Three years ago, when the transit union threatened to strike, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani blasted the more militant faction of the union and threatened striking union members with $25,000 fines and contempt charges if the transit workers walked out. The contract was settled without a strike that year.
Mr. Bloomberg appears to have every intention of leveraging the same threats. Outside of the state Taylor Law, which prohibits a strike, "the city in my view has additional remedies that it has a right to invoke," said Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel. "And depending on what happens during the course of the week, we may invoke them." He declined to offer specifics.
At a hearing yesterday before Judge William H. Pauley III of Federal District Court in Manhattan, the union sought an injunction preventing the city from obtaining a court order that would bar union leaders from talking in favor of a strike. The judge asked the two sides to file additional legal papers today.
But the mayor has, by and large, refrained from lobbing verbal snowballs at the union, other than to say he hopes "cooler heads will prevail."
Part of this is pure legal strategy, officials said, and unlike the tactics of three years ago, it is a strategy that has been carefully coordinated with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Indeed, Mr. Bloomberg has taken pains to say that he and Gov. George E. Pataki are both in full support of the M.T.A.
The city is seeking substantial budget relief from the governor, and would like to see the M.T.A. take over the city's bridges.
City officials are in as much suspense as the rest of New York, largely because the president of Transport Workers Union Local 100, Roger Toussaint, is an untested leader in labor negotiations. Taking no chances, city officials worked though the weekend, until minutes before yesterday's noon news conference.
Mr. Bloomberg said that preparations for the strike had already cost the city substantial time and money, but that a strike would cripple its economy and threaten safety.
"The gridlock and clogged streets caused by a transit strike could well double response time for ambulances and fire trucks," he said. 
The plans call for the Fire Department to use reserve fire trucks as a backup should response times slow dangerously because of traffic. They also include a moratorium on all nonemergency roadwork, suspension of alternate-side-of-the-street parking and street cleaning regulations, and a prohibition on truck deliveries in Manhattan south of 96th Street from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m.
Mr. Bloomberg said that the city would lose about $5 million a day in tax revenues and spend about $10 million daily on police overtime and other contingency personnel. He said lowered attendance could reduce state school aid by $6 million daily.
Yet the mayor said repeatedly that the city would not cease to function. "New Yorkers may need to once again call upon their resilience, toughness and ingenuity," he said.
Sharing rides with strangers is part of that, he said, scoffing at suggestions that this could be dangerous. "We have the safest large city in the world," he said. "New Yorkers are going to band together." Then, to laughter, he added, "You will be going in a car at a very slow speed with cars on either side of you, in front of you and behind you. I would suggest that that's not a significant risk."
For his part, Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that he was planning to buy a bicycle and would pedal his way from his town house on East 79th Street to City Hall. Would his detail ride along with him? Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly nodded his head vigorously behind the mayor, who said: "I don't know, I'm a little faster than most of those guys. I don't know if they can keep up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said pluck and neighborly kindness would be required if there is a transit strike. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1) Chart/Maps: "If There Is a Strike"Here are some of the contingency plans that will go into effect in the event of a transit strike. Parking and Car Pool Staging AreasLarge parking lots will be used for prearranged car pools, ad hoc car pools, and for people who want to park and take taxis, licensed livery vehicles or other public transportation into the city. Here are some of the larger lots. Ferries: Contingency RoutesThe Staten Island Ferry will expand service during rush hours, and privately operated ferry services will be encouraged to expand. In addition, the city expects to offer free interborough ferry service on these nine routes. Vehicular Restricted AreasOn weekdays, private vehicles with fewer than four people (including driver) will be prohibited from entering Manhattan below 96th Street. No fewer than two passengers on weekends. Other roads with restrictions are shown here. (Source: Office of Emergency Management)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LITIGATION (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); LAYOFFS (66%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); CHILDREN (60%); FERRIES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); CHRISTMAS (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUSES; SUBWAYS 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



307 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: 'All These Problems' 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A man from Mars -- or from Europe -- might expect Mississippi voters to favor progressive taxation and generous social programs. After all, the state benefits immensely from the legacy of Franklin Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson: it doesn't pay a lot of federal taxes because it has the lowest per-capita income in the nation, and it does receive a lot of aid. Unlike, say, New Jersey, which pays far more into the U.S. Treasury than it gets in return, Mississippi is a major net recipient of federal funds.
 But Mississippi is, in fact, the home of Trent Lott -- a leader of a party determined to roll back as much as it can of the Great Society, perhaps even the New Deal. Why do Mississippi and its neighbors support politicians whose economic policies seemingly run counter to their interests? 
 Do I really need to answer that?
 Fifty years ago the politics of race in America weren't at all disguised. Jim Crow laws both impoverished and disenfranchised Southern blacks; Southern whites voted for politicians who promised to keep things that way. The Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act ended overt discrimination. Yet race remains a major factor in our politics.
 Indeed, this year efforts to suppress nonwhite votes were remarkably blatant. There were those leaflets distributed in black areas of Maryland, telling people they couldn't vote unless they paid back rent; there was the fuss over alleged ballot fraud in South Dakota, clearly aimed at suppressing Native American votes. Topping it off was last Saturday's election in Louisiana, in which the Republican Party hired black youths to hold signs urging their neighbors not to vote for Mary Landrieu. 
 Still, nobody now misses the days of overt racial discrimination. Or do they?
 Last week, at Strom Thurmond's 100th-birthday party, Mr. Lott recalled Mr. Thurmond's 1948 race for the presidency. "I want to say this about my state: When Strom Thurmond ran for president, we voted for him. We're proud of it. And if the rest of the country had followed our lead, we wouldn't have had all these problems over all these years, either."
 What, exactly, did Mr. Lott mean by "all these problems"? Mr. Thurmond ran a one-issue campaign: "We stand for the segregation of the races and the racial integrity of each race," declared his platform. 
 Is it possible that a major modern political figure has sympathy for such views? After all, the Bush administration includes figures like Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice; some of Mr. Lott's best friends . . . Yet during the 1990's he was extensively involved with the Council of Conservative Citizens -- a descendant of the White Citizens Council -- telling them at one point that they "stand for the right principles and the right philosophy." When this came to light in 1998, Mr. Lott declared himself ignorant of the group's aims. Was he also ignorant of the aims of the 1948 Thurmond campaign? Or was he just, in the excitement of the moment, blurting out his real views?
 At first the "liberal media," which went into a frenzy over political statements at Paul Wellstone's funeral, largely ignored this story. To take the most spectacular demonstration of priorities, last week CNN's "Inside Politics" found time to cover Matt Drudge's unconfirmed (and untrue) allegations about the price of John Kerry's haircuts. "Just two days after moving closer to a presidential race, John Kerry already is in denial mode," intoned the host. But when the program interviewed Mr. Lott the day after the Thurmond event, his apparent nostalgia for segregation never came up.
 Now Mr. Lott has apologized for a "poor choice of words." But choice of words had nothing to do with it. What he did, quite clearly, was offer a retroactive endorsement of a frankly racist campaign. 
 And yes, there are political implications. In the midterm elections, Democratic candidates carefully avoided doing anything to mobilize the black vote, fearing that this would just encourage turnout by rural whites. But the rural whites turned out anyway, while blacks didn't. In Louisiana, black turnout -- the result of a determined get-out-the-vote operation, perhaps helped by Mr. Lott's remarks -- was the key to Ms. Landrieu's unexpected victory. Might I suggest that this tells us something? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%) ELECTIONS; BLACKS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; DISCRIMINATION 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%); MARY LANDRIEU (53%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; LOTT, TRENT (SEN); THURMOND, STROM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%) UNITED STATES; SOUTH DAKOTA; LOUISIANA; MARYLAND

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



308 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-20

Early Look at Iraqi Report Forced by U.S. Pressure
The United States has taken first possession of a copy of Iraq's declaration of its weapons programs, after persuading the four other permanent members of the Security Council to back it in insisting on seeing the document immediately, American officials said. In doing so, the United States circumvented a decision that Security Council members had made to wait to see the document until information that could possibly have been used to make a nuclear weapons had been removed. A1

Heavy Inspection Schedule
United Nations weapons inspectors picked up the pace of their work, sending the largest team of nuclear inspectors yet for the third inspection in a week of the giant al-Tuweitha nuclear complex south of Baghdad. A22

Deadly Mexico Border Region
At least 280 women and girls have been killed in Ciudad Juarez, near the American border, since 1993. State authorities say at least 76 of them fell prey to serial killers. Women's leaders say that the real total of women and girls raped, killed and missing is closer to 600. A1

Turkey Seeks Help on Europe
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of Turkey's Justice and Development Party, is expected to ask President Bush for help in securing the agreement of the European Union in giving Turkey a date to begin negotiations for membership. A23

U.S. to Sell Weapons to Algeria
The Bush administration will sell equipment to the military-backed government of Algeria to help combat Islamic militants who have engaged in a violent uprising since a militant Islamic party was banned in the early 1990's, administration officials said. A20

Joint U.S. Effort With Canada
The United States and Canada announced a broadening of their military cooperation to include the possibility that troops of one country would cross into the other in case of a terrorist attack or natural disaster. A24

NATIONAL A26-33

Cheney Allowed to Keep Energy Records Secret
Vice President Dick Cheney won a major legal victory when a federal district judge threw out a suit brought by Congress's General Accounting Office to require him to release records of the Bush administration's energy task force. A1

Treasury Secretary Named
President Bush named John W. Snow as the next Treasury secretary. Mr. Snow quickly reached out to lawmakers as the administration prepares to send Congress new proposals to shore up the economy. A30

Airport Screening Changes
The Transportation Security Administration will require most airline passengers to obtain boarding passes before they arrive at the security checkpoint, the goal is to free workers to screen checked bags rather than screen passengers. A24

Lott Apologizes for Remarks
Trent Lott, the Senate Republican leader, apologized for his speech at the 100th birthday party of the retiring Senator Strom Thurmond, which critics said was an implicit endorsement of segregation. A28

Shredded Documents at Issue
Congressional investigators are looking into the shredding and destruction of documents in the office of Janet Rehnquist, inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services. A33

Scholar Considered for Court
President Bush may name Douglas W. Kmiec, the dean of the law school at Catholic University and a prominent social conservative scholar, to a federal appeals court. A32

New Policy on Failing Schools
The Department of Education said school districts that lacked space for children wishing to transfer out of failing public schools must forge agreements with other districts to accept those students. A26

Corzine Gets Democratic Post
Senate Democrats put Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey in charge of their effort to recapture the Senate in 2004. A28

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Bloomberg Unveils Plan In Case of Transit Strike
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made clear that he expected ingenuity and an ample dose of neighborly kindness from each citizen to keep the city functioning if there is a transit strike. Under the mayor's plan, drivers would stop at specific zones to pick up strangers, the back seats of taxis would be shared, and the 108th mayor would pedal his way downtown on a 10-speed. A1

Luxury Shops Try New Tactics
It was a pitch that used to come only from stores trying to unload cheap sofas and stereo equipment. But these days, even a customer trying on a $10,000 sapphire ring at Tiffany's flagship store on Fifth Avenue is likely to hear it: "No money down, zero interest for 90 days." B1

A Record Share for Housing
The Bronx and Brooklyn emerged from the last decade with a dubious distinction: Analysts of recent census data say more homeowners in those two boroughs spend more income on housing than people anywhere else in the country. B1

Neediest Cases B5

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

ARTS E1-10

Strong Sales for La Boheme
"La Boheme," the Australian director Baz Luhrmann's hipster take on the Puccini opera, had strong sales at the box office after opening Sunday night to strong reviews. Producers of the show were expecting close to $1 million in ticket sales by day's end, a solid indication that an Italian-language opera can succeed on Broadway. E1

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES C19

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

United Files for Bankruptcy
United Airlines became one of the largest American companies ever to seek bankruptcy protection. With lenders pressuring it to cut costs, United said it would turn once again to its workers for deep concessions. A1

New Rules for Pension Plans
President Bush is supporting new rules that will allow companies to save money by converting their pension plans to cash-balance plans. Critics say cash-balance plans strip benefits from older workers. C1

Dow Drops 2 Percent
In its sharpest decline in a month, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 172.36 points, or 2 percent. The Nasdaq composite index slid 55.3 points, or 3.9 percent. C1

Merck Seeks Settlement
Merck & Company agreed to pay $42.5 million to settle long-running class action lawsuits against its pharmacy-benefit unit, but lawyers for the plaintiffs were split over whether to accept the agreement. C11

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A34-35

Editorials: Two versions of John Snow; Iraq in the dock; when Nike speaks; Philip M. Boffey on smallpox.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); AVIATION SECURITY (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); AIRLINES (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); HOMICIDE (68%); ARMED FORCES (64%); RELIGION (64%); JUDGES (60%); MURDER (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



309 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
Crosswinds Over Turkey: Will Europe Balk Again?

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
On the eve of a White House summit meeting, the crosswinds of public opinion on two continents have left Turkey and the United States in an unusual embrace: united in an effort to move Europe their way, but with little leverage to do it.
 When Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of Turkey's newly triumphant Justice and Development Party, meets President Bush on Tuesday, he is expected to ask for help securing agreement of the European Union in giving Turkey a date to begin negotiations for membership. The European Union is meeting this week to decide the issue, which Turkey views as a historic opportunity to throw in its lot with the West. The odds seem even at best. 
 For his part, President Bush would like nothing more than to persuade Europe's leaders to give Turkey what it wants, if only because he could then get from Turkey what he wants: agreement to support the United States in a war with Iraq. Turkey, a predominantly Muslim country that borders Iraq, is seen as crucial partner in any future military operation there.
But last week, after a visit by Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz, Turkish leaders cited strong public opposition to any war with Iraq and withheld the public endorsement the Bush administration sought. Hence Mr. Erdogan's invitation to the White House. 
President Bush's conundrum is clear: try as he may, he does not have much leverage over the Europeans, who are divided and ambivalent about Turkey's European Union bid and are either opposed outright to an American war in Iraq or at least querulous about it.
Here in Turkey, the country's leaders are so edgy about the European Union summit meeting, which starts Thursday in Copenhagen, that they are trying to use the Iraq issue to solve their problem. "In terms of the Turkish people, they will find a link between European attitudes and Turkish involvement in Iraq," said Murat Mercan, a member of Parliament and a senior adviser to Prime Minister Abdullah Gul. "If Europe does bad to us, why cooperate on Iraq? This administration will try to separate those issues, but that is what the Turkish people will try to think."
Another member of Parliament, Mevlut Cavusoglu, of the AK Party, said: "I think the U.S. wants to use Turkey's bases against Iraq. Almost all the Turkish are going to be against this."
Mr. Mercan and other members of the Justice and Development Party, which triumphed in last month's elections and dominates the new government, said they expected Mr. Bush to help the faltering Turkish bid for the European Union.
"We have very high hopes that Mr. Bush is going to intervene, make several calls, and that it will change the tune in the European capitals," Mr. Mercan said. "I have very high hopes on that."
Although under the best of circumstances Turkey would still be years away from becoming a full member of the European Union, it is difficult to overstate the importance placed on the issue here.
Ever since the Turkish Republic rose from the ruins of the Ottoman Empire after World War I, it has struggled to find its place in the world: as a Muslim nation in the Middle East, or as a secular democracy in Europe.
For its part, Europe has not been able to decide either, and Turkey's application has languished for 15 years. While the 15 nations now in the bloc have agreed to take up the issue again -- as they set a much firmer date for post-Communist nations to actually join the European Union -- the latest signals are not promising for Ankara.
Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president, who is overseeing efforts to draft a new European Constitution, said flat out last month that Turkey did not belong in Europe.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the Danish prime minister, who currently holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, predicted this week that Turkey would not be given a date to begin negotiations. 
In Copenhagen today, Turkey's edginess was palpable.
"The fact that Turkey has not been given a date is a double standard in itself," Mr. Erdogan told journalists after talks with Mr. Rasmussen. "There is no other way to explain it."
American officials have said privately that they have some sympathy for Turkish allegations of European prejudice against them. Mr. Erdogan, whose party has Islamist roots, suggested that a cold shoulder by Europe this time would smack of a final rejection. 
If Turkey is not given a firm date to start negotiations, "we would revise our road map and carry on our journey in that light," he said. 
Mr. Erdogan did not elaborate, but many Turks have worried aloud that rejection by the European Union would revive Islamist currents. 
Those concerns are shared in the White House, and not just because of plans for a potential war with Iraq. The Bush administration sees in Turkey -- secular, democratic, with a relatively open economy -- a country with much to teach the rest of the Muslim world.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Abdullah Gul, Turkey's new prime minister, is a Justice and Development Party moderate. (Asociated Press); Tayyip Erdogan, left, head of the Turkish Justice and Development Party, with Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Denmark's prime minister. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (78%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ABDULLAH GUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (77%) EUROPE (96%); TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); DENMARK (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



310 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2031 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE OVERVIEW; 
BANKRUPTCY CASE IS FILED BY UNITED

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
United Airlines today became the biggest airline and one of the largest American companies ever to seek bankruptcy protection from its creditors.
 Under pressure from its lenders for quick action to cut costs, the company said its first step to return to profitability would be to turn once again to its workers for deep concessions, a path that industry experts warned was bound to be perilous. 
 United said that all tickets for current and future flights would be honored and that it would make no changes to its frequent-flier programs. But analysts said that further cutbacks in routes and service would be necessary down the road.
The bankruptcy filing gives United, the world's second-largest airline, more time to look for cures to its ills. But experts say the answers are no more obvious now than when United's losses started mounting at an alarming rate two years ago, during an economic downturn that starkly revealed just how unprepared traditional hub-and-spoke airlines were for the challenge from low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines. 
Glenn F. Tilton, United's chief executive, said today that United and other large rivals would eventually have to change their operations drastically to compete with Southwest and others like it. Toward that end, bankruptcy documents disclosed today that United had hired McKinsey & Company to help it devise a new business strategy. Page C1. 
But in the meantime, United plans to rely on more conventional steps -- starting with bringing down labor costs -- in hopes of emerging from bankruptcy protection relatively intact. United is one of the largest employee-owned companies, with many workers having forgone raises for six years in exchange for 55 percent of the stock. Their stock value, though, is wiped out in bankruptcy.
"Our employees are very smart, and they know our margin is unsustainable," Mr. Tilton said in a telephone interview today. "The business plan we have with the cost structure we have won't work."
Mr. Tilton raised the prospect of being forced to liquidate the company and either sell off or shut down its operations under a so-called Chapter 7 bankruptcy filing if he fails to transform the airline. "Let me offer you two scenarios," he said. "One is the prospect of my vision and my leadership and robust employment and a competitive United. That's door No. 1. Door No. 2 is Chapter 7."
United's executives said there would be no immediate changes to the airline's schedule of 1,800 daily flights, providing service to 117 airports around the world. Travelers in turn seemed relatively calm about United's entering bankruptcy court, a step that had been expected since last Wednesday, when a federal panel rejected its application for a $1.8 billion loan guarantee.
But in the months ahead, the changes at United could have far-reaching effects on travelers and many of the airline's 81,000 workers. Executives and industry experts say the airline will have to cut back its route system and revamp its hub airport operations. The United that will take shape could be far removed from the flush, globe-straddling carrier that profited handsomely selling high-price last-minute tickets to business travelers during the economic boom of the late 1990's.
In bankruptcy court here today, a lawyer for United submitted financial numbers to the bankruptcy judge, Eugene R. Wedoff, indicating that UAL, the parent of United, was in worse shape than people outside the company had known. UAL is expected to lose $20 million to $22 million every day this month, three times what executives had previously disclosed, the United lawyer, James Sprayregen, said. Next month, United is expected to lose $10 million to $15 million a day, he said. Currently, Mr. Sprayregen told the court, the company has access to about $800 million in unrestricted cash.
United enters bankruptcy protection with $1.5 billion in debtor-in-possession financing, of which $800 million is expected to be available in 10 days. Of the total amount, four creditors -- Citigroup, J. P. Morgan Chase, Bank One and the CIT Group -- are providing equal shares of $300 million, for a $1.2 billion package. Bank One, which issues the credit cards linked to United's frequent-flier program, is putting up the remaining $300 million in a separate package.
To get access to the financing beyond the initial $800 million, United would have to meet certain financial targets. That is expected to require United to begin cutting its labor costs "virtually immediately," according to a motion the company submitted to the bankruptcy court. The airline will also need to cut an additional $300 million in nonlabor costs, an executive involved in the negotiations said. The company must also show cumulative positive cash flow, which is expected to happen in September or October of next year, according to Todd Snyder, a managing director with Rothschild, the airline's financial adviser.
Mr. Tilton said that United would present a detailed restructuring plan this week to its union leaders. In the last month, the unions agreed to tentative cuts of $5.2 billion over five and a half years, but those agreements were voided when the mechanics' union voted before Thanksgiving against giving its $700 million portion, and when the federal panel rejected the loan guarantee application.
"This is going to take sacrifice by every single member of United's family," Mr. Tilton said.
United said today that its senior managers would take an immediate pay cut averaging 11 percent of their annual salaries, with those earning less taking smaller cuts. Managers will also not receive merit and incentive bonuses this year.
United's three biggest unions -- the pilots, machinists and flight attendants -- all issued statements today expressing disappointment at the bankruptcy filing, but vowing to work with the company to ensure the airline's survival.
The pilots, machinists and nonunion workers were each given one seat on United's board in exchange for stock options granted to those workers from 1994 to 2000. But if employee ownership falls below 20 percent -- which could happen in bankruptcy if creditors and lenders are given equity -- then the workers could lose their board seats.
"There have to be some adjustments made, we know that," said Paul Whiteford, who represents the pilots' union on the board. "We pretty much know that things have to change."
But he added that it was unclear how much in concessions the company needed to survive.
Industry experts said that Mr. Tilton, United's chief executive, would have to tread carefully while asking workers for concessions. Demanding too much could badly alienate them, which in turn could drive away customers over dissatisfaction with poor service. The recent mechanics' vote, along with a bitter dispute between pilots and management in the summer of 2000, are the two most visible instances of employee hostility toward management in recent years.
"There are a lot of things you could do to cut costs that would make it impossible for the airline to run," said Peter Cappelli, a professor of management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. While it would not unduly harm the airline if high-wage pilots were forced to accept pay cuts, "if you cut the wages of mechanics," he said, "they could go elsewhere because they have more opportunities to get work elsewhere." 
He added: "You also have this internal rivalry between the pilots and mechanics, about who's given up more in the past. You have these inequity dynamics."
Having power on the board has also given the employees "a very short threshold for changes," Mr. Cappelli added. "In the past, if management tried something that didn't work out, they got rid of the management team. Their level of patience is not there."
At airports across the country, United workers expressed fear of cuts in the future, as well as bitterness at the federal government for its denial of the loan application. Employees pondered what would happen to pension plans, how much to spend on Christmas gifts and the prospects of finding jobs elsewhere.
"Our whole lifestyle will change," said Dawn Marie Bader, a flight attendant who also serves as president of the union local in San Francisco. "We are looking at cutting back everything. We will pull back on the number of Christmas gifts we normally buy, our plan to replace the 10-year-old car and even giving extra support to our daughter at university."
While workers at the airports fretted about their paychecks, passengers mulled over their travel plans and frequent-flier miles.
"I hope I can still catch my flight back to Tokyo," said Kate Brady, an acupuncturist living in Japan who was coming off a United flight at Newark International Airport. "I'm nervous. But I've traveled in third world countries, so something always happens. There's always something to deal with. I just hope it doesn't cost me more money."
Laura Bohn, a passenger from Denver who shares 700,000 United frequent-flier miles with her husband, said: "I used to hoard my miles; now I'm going to have to start using them, I guess. Maybe we'll take more weekend trips now."
In its bankruptcy filing today, United listed $22.7 billion in assets. That far surpasses the second-largest bankruptcy filing by an airline, which took place last August when US Airways sought Chapter 11 protection, with $7.8 billion in assets. United's filing is the seventh-largest among American companies, right behind Adelphia Communications, which listed $24.4 billion in assets when it filed last June.
United had operating losses of $2.1 billion last year and $1.8 billion in the first three quarters of this year. Without the government loan guarantee, it had no immediate access to financing to keep operating and pay back debt. It had payments to lenders of $300 million due today, $575 million due on Dec. 12 and $45 million due over the next month or so.
Last spring, United hired Rothschild Inc. as a financial adviser, and it recently retained the services of McKinsey and Huron Consulting to help it restructure. Those two companies will advise United on strategy and accounting matters, respectively, in Chapter 11. Huron, for example, is already working with United on dealing with its vendors.
"They've got thousands of vendors," said Gary Holdren, Huron's chief executive. "They'll have to go through them one by one. As for the larger vendors, those will be delicate negotiations, I'm sure."
Within a week or so, the bankruptcy court will assemble a creditors' committee. The powers of United's board will be weakened considerably, because major business decisions will have to be approved by that committee. In theory, the immediate day-to-day operations of the airline will still take place under the current management, who are generally entitled to keep their jobs for at least 120 days.
Although some industry experts are blaming United's senior managers for failing to secure the government loan guarantee, there were no immediate calls from United's board for anyone's resignation.
"I think our new C.E.O. has done a terrific job in mobilizing and reorganizing and working with organized labor through all this," said John Van de Kamp, a board member. "I think a lot of good will has been developed for the future."
If he stays in the job, Mr. Tilton will undoubtedly need that good will not only for delicate labor talks, but also for negotiations in Washington. He said today that he intended to go back to the same federal panel that rejected the loan guarantee, the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, to ask for exit financing.
United is such a large presence in the industry, and it is so symbolic of American aviation, that even its rivals were not entirely jubilant today. Donald J. Carty, the chief executive of the AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, the world's largest carrier, said that United's future reduction in capacity should help other carriers, but that its cost-cutting in Chapter 11 could give it a competitive advantage in a troubled business environment. These days, he said, "we're not talking about a slice of the economic pie; we're talking about whether there is going to be a pie or not."

GRAPHIC: Photo: United Airlines passengers lined up for a flight yesterday in San Francisco. United said that it would honor all tickets for current and future flights. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) Chart/Photos: "History of United Airlines"1929 -- United Aircraft and Transport Corp. (U.A.T.C.) is formed with four airlines that are among the first in the country. It also owns Boeing Airplane Co. and Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. 1931 -- United Air Lines is incorporated as a management company to coordinate operations of U.A.T.C.'s airline subsidiaries. 1934 -- The Air Mail Act is enacted prohibiting airline companies from owning aircraft manufacturing companies. U.A.T.C. is dissolved, leaving two separate companies: Boeing Airplane Co., the manufacturing company, and United Airlines Transport Corp., the airline. 1961 -- United merges with Capital Airlines, becoming the largest carrier in the United States. 1986 -- United begins service to 13 Pacific cities after purchasing Pan American Airway's Pacific division. 1985-1987 -- Hoping to build a travel conglomerate, UAL's chief executive, Richard J. Ferris, buys the Hertz Corp. in 1985 and Hilton International in 1987. Angered by the diversification, the pilots strike in 1985 and try to buy the airline in 1987. Mr. Ferris resigns when a leading shareholder threatens to liquidate the firm. The company sells the hotels and Hertz. 1990-1993 -- Fare wars and the rise of short-haul rivals, like Southwest Airlines, result in record losses in revenue. After Pan Am goes out of business in 1991, United acquires its operations in Latin America. 1994 -- United becomes the largest employee-owned company after its pilots, machinists and nonunion employees receive 55 percent of the company's stock in exchange for $4.8 billion in wage concessions. 1995 -- Workers veto a proposed merger with US Air, mainly because of pilots' concerns about combining seniority lists. UAL concludes its most profitable year ever. 1997 -- United joins with Air Canada, Lufthansa, Scandinavian Airlines and Thai Airways to create the Star Alliance, which funnels the airlines' passengers to one another and merges their frequent-flier programs. Ten other international airlines have joined the alliance since then. 1999 -- Fortune magazine names UAL one of the 10 best stocks for long-term investment. 2000 -- United again tries to buy the renamed US Airways, but the deal is ultimately blocked by antitrust regulators, citing concerns about reduced competition leading to higher fares. 2001 -- After losing two planes in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, United eliminates flights and lays off 20 percent of its work force. The company posts a $2.1 billion loss. 2002 -- The airline is turned down for $1.8 billion in backing from a federal loan guarantee program. Yesterday it sought bankrupcy protection from its creditors.(pg. C4) Chart: "Going Chapter 11"United has joined the list of top bankruptcies in the United States. WorldComDATE: July '02ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: $103.9 EnronDATE: Dec. '01ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 63.4 TexacoDATE: April '87ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 35.9 Financial Corp. of AmericaDATE: Sept. '88ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 33.9 Global CrossingDATE: Jan. '02ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 25.5 Adelphia CommunicationsDATE: June '02ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 24.4 United AirlinesDATE: Dec. '02ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 22.7 Pacific Gas and ElectricDATE: April '01ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 21.5 MCorpDATE: March '89ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 20.2 KmartDATE: Jan. '02ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS IN BILLIONS: 17.0 (Source: BankruptcyData.Com; Bloomberg Finanical Markets)(pg. C4) Chart: "Landing in Court"Some major bankruptcy filings among passenger airlines. Braniff*ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): $0.77 ContinentalESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 1.05 EasternESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 4.04 Braniff 2nd filingESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 0.24 Continental 2nd filingESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 7.66 Pan Am*ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 2.44 Midway*ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 0.47 America WestESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 1.17 T.W.A.ESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 2.86 T.W.A. 2nd filingESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 2.50 Pan Am 2nd filingESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 0.27 T.W.A. 3rd filingESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 2.14 Midway 2nd filingESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 0.35 US AirwaysESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 7.81 UnitedESTIMATED PREBANKRUPTCY ASSETS (BILLIONS): 22.73 *Restarted under the same name.(Sources: Bankruptcydata.com; Air Transport Association; company reports; Eclat Consulting)(pg. C4) Chart: "United Airlines at a Glance"CHIEF EXECUTIVE: Glenn F. TiltonHEADQUARTERS: Elk Grove Township, Ill.EMPLOYEES: 81,0002001 REVENUE: $16.1 billion2001 NET LOSS: $2.1 billionAIRPLANES: 566* Top Domestic Routes 2002, through June Chicago/New YorkUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 33.7%UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 2,333 New York/San FranciscoUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 42.0UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,727 Los Angeles/San FranciscoUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 72.9UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,561 Chicago/Washington, D.C.UNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 59.8UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,518 Los Angeles/New YorkUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 21.7UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,403 Chicago/Los AngelesUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 35.3UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,360 Chicago/San FranciscoUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 54.7UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,345 Chicago/DenverUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 51.4UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,207 Denver/New YorkUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 47.1UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,175 Denver/San FranciscoUNITED AIRLINES' PASSENGER SHARE: 70.0UNITED AIRLINES' AVERAGE PASSENGERS PER DAY: 1,009 *Owns 45 percent of its aircraft.(Sources: Company reports; Merrill Lynch, Airline Industry Quarterly Review)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); AIRLINES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (68%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; SOUTHWEST AIRLINES; MCKINSEY & CO 

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (89%) WONG, EDWARD; TILTON, GLENN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



311 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

PERSON: John W. Snow 

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL AT THE TREASURY: THE NOMINEE -- Man in the News; 
A Pragmatist At Treasury

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
John W. Snow, the railroad executive President Bush has chosen to be his next secretary of the Treasury, is a pragmatic business executive who once campaigned vociferously to place top priority on balancing the budget rather than on cutting taxes.
 "The budget deficit puts a hole in the pocket of every American, every day of their lives," Mr. Snow declared in 1995, when he was chairman of the Business Roundtable and when the budget deficit was about the same size as it is now. 
 But today, as he stood alongside President Bush at the White House, Mr. Snow made it clear that his views are now closer to the supply-side, tax-cutting philosophy that is at the center of the administration's economic policy. Page A30. 
He and Mr. Bush both alluded to the need for promoting faster growth and more job creation, which for Mr. Bush means more tax cuts for businesses and individuals even if the deficit widens in the short term.
In picking Mr. Snow as his chief salesman on economic policy, Mr. Bush settled on a middle-of-the-road Republican whose greatest strengths are not his ideological fervor but rather his skills as a manager and a communicator, his credibility in the business world and his familiarity with Washington. But in making the selection, Mr. Bush may have introduced potential tensions within his economic team over the size and scope of future tax cuts.
In a display of his political sensitivities, Mr. Snow let it be known today that he had resigned as a member of the Augusta National Golf Club, which is under criticism for its refusal to admit women as members.
Many supply-side Republicans said they welcomed the choice of Mr. Snow, saying he is an effective political player who knows how to promote Mr. Bush's agenda even if he is less than passionate about tax cuts.
"I don't want to say that John Snow is a follower of Jack Kemp's precise philosophy," Jack Kemp, a former cabinet secretary and an ardent advocate of tax cuts, said today. "I am saying that he is an outstanding choice, and he wants to do what Bush wants to do."
But if the welcome for Mr. Snow seemed guarded among supply-side Republicans, many expressed alarm at the man Mr. Bush is expected to nominate as his economic adviser at the White House, Stephen Friedman, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs. In the past, Mr. Friedman has identified himself as an opponent of deficits, and therefore he is highly suspect to advocates of tax cuts. 
"I am not at all pleased with Friedman," said Stephen Moore, director of the Club for Growth, a group that lobbies for deep tax reduction and an overhaul of the tax system. Noting that Mr. Friedman has been associated with the Concord Coalition, a group that campaigns for greater budget discipline, Mr. Moore accused him of being "hypersensitive about budget deficits."
Mr. Bush has not yet announced that Mr. Friedman will be his new economic adviser, replacing Lawrence B. Lindsey, who, along with the former Treasury secretary Paul H. O'Neill, was fired on Thursday. Today, the president focused on Mr. Snow, who is chairman and chief executive of the CSX Corporation, the railway and shipping company based in Richmond, Va.
Over the years Mr. Snow has cultivated his ties in Washington and spoken out on policy issues like tax changes and corporate governance. His friends range from ardent supply-side Republicans like Mr. Kemp to Democrats like Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey.
John William Snow, 63, was born in Toledo, Ohio, on August 2, 1939. His father was a lawyer and his mother a homemaker. He earned a Ph.D. in economics at the University of Virginia in 1965 and a law degree at George Washington University. He spent part of his early career in the Ford administration and was head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in 1976 and 1977.
He then became a lobbyist for the old Chessie System, now part of CSX, and moved through a series of senior management posts before becoming chief executive of CSX in 1991.
At CSX, Mr. Snow's biggest accomplishment was probably to engineer the takeover, with the Norfolk Southern Corporation, of the giant freight rail system owned by Conrail. CSX and Norfolk Southern became locked in a bidding war, then essentially agreed to carve up Conrail between the two of them in a $10 billion deal in 1997.
Mr. Snow has been planning to retire next year, and he had essentially picked his successor. 
Throughout the past decade, he kept a hand in public policy. He was chairman of the Business Roundtable, a lobbying organization for chief executives of large corporations, in 1995 and 1996. He served on a commission studying tax reform led by Mr. Kemp. And this year he was co-chairman of a panel on corporate governance organized by the Conference Board, a business group. 
"John is a very smooth operator, very personable and someone who everyone feels comfortable with," said John Meagher, a Republican tax lobbyist who has known Mr. Snow for years. "He's a mainstream Republican, and he's a player."
But Mr. Corzine, who has been friendly with Mr. Snow for years, says he is convinced that Mr. Snow is instinctively uncomfortable about letting the government run big budget deficits.
"These guys are team players, and I am sure they will agree whenever they are in public," Mr. Corzine said today. "But behind closed doors, he will be a Concord Coalition traditionalist, very concerned about the budget deficit."
Separate from the tax issue, Mr. Snow emerged this year as an outspoken critic of what he called excessive compensation for corporate executives and poor corporate governance.
Teaming with Peter G. Peterson, chairman of the Blackstone Group, Mr. Snow assembled a panel of highly respected business and economic leaders who urged companies to change the way they awarded stock options and stop rewarding executives who failed to improve their companies' operating businesses.
"He had the guts to take on the tough issues, and to resolve them," Mr. Peterson said. "His heart is in the right place."

PROFILE
John William Snow

BORN: Aug, 2, 1939, Toledo, Ohio
HOMETOWN: Toledo
EDUCATION: Kenyon College, University of Toledo, B.A.; University of Virginia, Ph.D.; George Washington University, L.L.B.
CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: Assistant professor of economics, University of Maryland, 1965-67; associate, Wheeler & Wheeler law firm, 1967-72; Department of Transportation, assistant general counsel (1972-73), deputy assistant secretary for policy, plans and international affairs (1973-74), assistant secretary for governmental affairs (1974-75) and deputy under secretary (1975-76); administrator, National Highway Safety Administration, 1976-77; CSX Corporation, 1977 to present, (chairman, president and chief executive since 1991).
FAMILY: Married to Carolyn Kalk; three sons
HOBBIES: Golf, hiking and reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); GOLF (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (57%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEORGE W BUSH (93%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; SNOW, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002 



312 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Snatching Complications From the Jaws of Victory

BYLINE:  By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
THE CONQUERORS
Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945
By Michael Beschloss
Illustrated. 377 pages. Simon & Schuster. $26.95.
 "We come as conquerors, but not as oppressors," went Dwight D. Eisenhower's Proclamation No. 1, as Allied forces crossed into Germany in October 1944. The mixture of toughness and possible leniency in his first words to the Germans has over the years taken on a gloss of inevitability. A program of punishment alone, an attempt permanently to cripple defeated Germany, wouldn't have brought about the prosperous, democratic postwar ally that is without doubt one of the great success stories of American foreign policy. 
 But as the historian and television commentator Michael Beschloss shows in "The Conquerors," Eisenhower's statement was full of political meaning and came only after a sharp debate within the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt over how to treat Germany after the war.
Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau Jr., a major figure in Mr. Beschloss's account, wanted Eisenhower's proclamation to begin, "We come as militant victors to ensure that Germany shall never again drench the world with blood." But Morgenthau's vision of a sort of Carthaginian peace was opposed by others, notably War Secretary Henry L. Stimson and his chief deputy, John J. McCloy, and in the instance of Proclamation No. 1 it was their view that prevailed. With many fits and starts, and many instances of what seemed to be presidential vacillation, the Stimson-McCloy view prevailed in general.
Mr. Beschloss's book traces the debate over how to deal with postwar Germany as it raged within Roosevelt's administration and then, after his death one month before V-E Day, within Harry S. Truman's. As we have come to expect from Mr. Beschloss, whose two latest books were based on the secretly recorded tapes of Lyndon B. Johnson, this new book shows a strict adherence to the documentary record. As he did with his two Johnson volumes, Mr. Beschloss virtually transcribes and edits the record as he lays out the conflicting visions of Morgenthau and Stimson, even as Roosevelt and then Truman seemed to agree and then to disagree with one side or the other.
"The Conquerors," in other words, not only closely follows the movements and initiatives of the men wrestling with the shape of the postwar world, but alsoreproduces their conversations, meetings, diary entries and phone calls. 
Morgenthau, the only Jew in Roosevelt's cabinet and only the second Jew ever to serve in a cabinet (the first was Oscar S. Straus, secretary of commerce and labor to Theodore Roosevelt), emphatically wanted to punish Germany for its wartime atrocities by destroying its industries, giving away chunks of its territory to neighboring countries and transforming it into a largely pastoral nation that could never become a military threat again. Twice already during the 20th century, Germany, which was viewed as inherently militaristic and authoritarian, had caused world wars, and it could only be prevented from doing so a third time, in Morgenthau's view, if it was made permanently weak. 
At one point, illustrating his attitude, Morgenthau was talking with his aide Harry Dexter White about whether the Ruhr industrial region should be shut down or not.
"White warned that shutting down the Ruhr would exile millions of Germans and harm the rest of Europe," Mr. Beschloss writes. Morgenthau's reply: "Why the hell should I worry about what happens to their people?"
On the other side was Stimson, patrician, wealthy, contemptuous of Morgenthau and against his playing a key role deciding the German future on the ground that, as Stimson put it, "He, as a Jew, is the last man who ought to do it." Stimson, at the height of the competition for Roosevelt's heart and mind, told McCloy over a scrambled telephone line that Morgenthau was trying to foment "a very bitter atmosphere of personal resentment against the entire German people" that would lead to "clumsy economic action" as a weapon of "mass vengeance."
Mr. Beschloss is an efficient, workmanlike but not especially elegant or stylish guide through the twists and turns of these debates. His book is not literary in the way that, say, Simon Schama or Robert Caro might write history, full of brilliantly rich portraits and elaborate backgrounds. The focus is a narrow one, on a crucially important policy debate and the manner in which two adept presidents heard out their competing cabinet members without openly committing themselves philosophically to either side. Mr. Beschloss keeps his own commentary and analysis to a minimum, though here and there he does offer a useful explanatory comment.
He does this, for example, in several chapters that he devotes to the debate that took place at the time over whether the Americans should bomb the railroad tracks leading to the death camps, or perhaps Auschwitz itself. Morgenthau pressed Roosevelt to take action, or at least to speak out about the slaughter of the Jews. But Roosevelt refused to do so until 1944, and Mr. Beschloss, who calls that a serious mistake, speculates on the reasons: Roosevelt didn't need the Jewish vote; he might have worried that it would create domestic divisions "over what the war in Europe was really about"; he might have felt that departing from a single war aim would lead Stalin, a mass murderer himself, "to distrust his intentions."
Mr. Beschloss also closely traces the various Big Three meetings among Roosevelt (later Truman), Stalin and Churchill, from Casablanca in 1943, when Roosevelt first suggested the phrase "unconditional surrender" to define the overall policy toward Germany, to Potsdam in 1945, when the division of Germany into four zones of occupation was made final. No decision, in Mr. Beschloss's account, was easy or uncontested, not even unconditional surrender, a policy that bothered many American military commanders on the ground that it might convince the Germans they had no choice but to fight to the bitter end.
But in the end the main lesson of Mr. Beschloss's fine study is that what happens after a war is as important as what happens on the battlefield. This would seem a good lesson to keep in mind as the United States deals with Afghanistan following the anti-terrorism war there and contemplates an effort to transform dictatorial Iraq (whose ruler is said to admire Hitler) into a democracy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); HISTORY (69%); WAR CRIMES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); LITERATURE (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; BESCHLOSS, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: CONQUERERS, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



313 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2229 words

HEADLINE: A TASTE OF SAN FRANCISCO; 
Fluent in French, With a West Coast Accent

BYLINE:  By AMANDA HESSER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The frisee aux lardons at Florio was correct, as the French would say. The crisp frisee wilted slightly when bathed with the warm egg yolk, creating a tangy, creamy dressing. Salty bits of bacon slipped in here and there. I washed it down with a moody Gigondas, and looked out the window onto a placid street in Pacific Heights.
 If it seemed weird to be eating old-school French fare in a city where menus typically pay homage to the producer of everything from the veal down to the butter, it was not an aberration. After decades on the culinary frontier, defining a new American cuisine on a foundation of local foods and seasonal cooking, San Francisco has shifted into reverse, with more than a dozen new bistros settling in neighborhoods from Potrero Hill to the Financial District to the East Bay. 
 French cooking has long been a forceful presence in San Francisco's best kitchens, but having tolerated earnest California cooking for years, its adherents were ripe for a culinary revolt. They've done it in a stunning fashion and a vibrant confluence of cooking styles. 
The new bistros in San Francisco are French at the core, but American in manner. The frisee aux lardons at Chez Spencer, for instance, is smartened with a fan of smoked duck breast resting under the frisee. The lamb chops at Chez Nous are sprinkled with coarse sea salt infused with lavender; two chops are served alone. A watercress salad at Absinthe is brightened with slices of local persimmon and pomegranate seeds.
The bistros are appearing at a convenient time, too. "The San Francisco economy has been completely decimated in the past two years," said Meesha Halm, the editor of the San Francisco Zagat guide. "Our two biggest industries are high tech and tourism, so the high tech industry was gone before, and then 9/11 destroyed tourism. So basically we lost the out-of-town diners as well as the big expense accounts in the local economy."
Now, the city's many suddenly less rich foodies, preferring not to suffer on pizza, have turned to duck confit for comfort. While many restaurants, like Jardiniere and Redwood Park, where main courses hover around $28, are slow, the bistros are flourishing.
If I were surviving on my last few stock options, I would make Chez Papa Bistrot in Potrero Hill my cafeteria. 
It sits on the corner of a sunny hill, from which you can see the bay, downtown and the hazy outlines of Nob Hill. There is a sliver of patio jammed with zinc-topped tables and a pot of lavender. 
Inside the tiny square of a restaurant, formerly Daily Scoop, is a sensualist's paradise. There is the humming of the hood fan, the clatter of plates being stacked, the whining grind of a coffee machine. A fruit basket filled with flame-red persimmons crowns the tiny bar. When a breeze pushed in the front door, it swept the rich, sweet scent of lamb daube under my nose. 
The butternut squash soup and a potato, artichoke and asparagus salad began the meal with a statement. The soup was sweet, pure and as vivid as the freshly cut flesh of the squash. In the center of the bowl were tiny melted lumps of Parmesan cheese and bacon. The potatoes and baby artichokes in the gratin were bound with a warm, tangy mustard dressing and freckled with the mustard seeds. The potatoes were creamy and loamy, the artichokes sweet and still quite firm.
A pan bagnat was served on a floury roll, stained with balsamic vinegar. Inside were thin strips of cucumber, tuna, anchovies, olives and slices of egg and tomato. With it came the world's thinnest French fries -- strands really -- and a ramekin of garlicky, lemony aioli for dipping.
The daube, which kept the chef behind the counter busy, his head bobbing from stove to the stack of plates, then arrived. Baby carrots, turnips and white onions were colorful outcroppings in a dark glossy pool of lamb and sauce.
Chez Papa does not specialize in any particular region. The selections are generic, and in that way, perhaps Parisian. For desserts, there are creme brulee and tarte Tatin. The cherry clafoutis is delicious with boozy cherries nestled in a soft almond custard. But, then, the memorable conclusion to the meal was not a dessert at all. It was a mint tea, served Moroccan style: sweet and short in a tiny glass. On its surface floated a sprinkling of pine nuts.
Chez Papa has been so successful that the owners recently opened up another sliver-size restaurant down the block. It's called Chez Maman and is a creperie.
THIS seems to be the way restaurants in San Francisco are growing these days. Another bistro, Absinthe, near the War Memorial Opera House, has opened a sandwich shop and a wine shop, all on the same block. The ambition is low and the penetration is concentrated to a single neighborhood.
The affordability of these bistros, though, may be more coincidence than a reaction to the current economic climate.
"We started this project, putting it together from a conceptual standpoint, when the dot-coms were still booming," said Robert Cubberly, the chef and an owner at Le Petit Robert, which opened in October 2001. "A lot of the restaurants opening in the last year, I think they've all probably started when the economy was booming. What happened when the economy was booming, the only leases you could get were small spaces in neighborhoods." 
Chez Spencer is proof of this. It occupies perhaps the least desirable plot in the city. The loftlike restaurant is wedged into a dark, industrial street, whose main feature is an Office Max. It was the original location of the popular bakery and restaurant Citizen Cake and then was rented to a dot-com company. The company moved its desks and computers in, leaving the bar and wood oven intact. When it went under, Laurent Katgely swooped in. 
It's a spare, beautiful space with great arching trusses on a white ceiling, a cement floor, a brick oven and a few random hunting trophies -- a set of elk antlers and a large goose that looms menacingly over the bar with its wings spread.
Here is perhaps the best bistro food you will find in San Francisco right now. It's not quite as inexpensive as the other bistros. Dinner is about $70 a person. 
And although Mr. Katgely puts out-of-season vegetables like asparagus on the menu, in a city where that is akin to heresy, he is a gifted cook. The asparagus, admittedly, was superb. It was stacked like thin rods in a deliciously earthy, stone-colored truffle emulsion.
I would skip the sardines, which have an Asian dressing and are a distraction on a generally well-edited menu. Then I would order three of the foie gras terrines, because you won't want to share it. It was the ideal terrine: sweet, buttery and light. It melted in your mouth like whipped cream, and was served with a fluffy cloud of brioche and a quince compote, which was set on the plate with tiny trails of pepper on either side. 
Main courses were hefty. A wood-grilled Angus rib-eye was bathed in a red-wine reduction, a creamy morel sauce and then truffle butter. A succulent gamy squab rested on barley soaked in a foie gras jus. It may be haute bistro, but it's not cuisine minceur. 
Some of the best dishes I had during a week of eating out were this kind of simple, hearty fare. At BeauCoup, which opened just a few months ago, cater-cornered to the Fairmont Hotel on Nob Hill, Bruno Davaillon, the chef, bravely serves a chicken fricassee with garlic and green beans. The meat is all dark meat and the dish is mostly brown. But the sauce is rich and viscous from gentle cooking and the beans are soft, having soaked up the juices. You might think you were in France if there weren't such a hopping bar scene 10 feet from your table.
"When you look at the product that you get in San Francisco," Mr. Cubberly said, "and you look at what you get in France, we rival them in raw material and in some cases exceed what they do. We have our local cheese makers making French-style cheeses. We have Liberty foie gras and natural meats from Niman Schell, and good produce."
"Part of it is a culmination of 20 years of what Alice Waters started," he said, "which is using local indigenous products and treating them simply. That's also French bistro. It's a European concept that we didn't have in America until 25 years ago. Now, you have all of these chefs who have grown up in this environment. Part of it is a natural progression, of going back you might say. Of completing a cycle."
I adored the food at Mr. Cubberly's Petit Robert for just this reason. Everything seemed familiar, and yet surprises nudged you in every bite. A French onion soup was filled with silky onions, a distinctive, herbal broth and bread so drenched in it that it was like a fluffy mousse.
Brussels sprouts were shredded like confetti and sauteed, then folded together with an apple cider vinegar dressing and chopped hazelnuts. A thick pork chop was rubbed with a coarse grind of picholine olives and set on a mound of mashed Yellow Finn potatoes. And the braised lamb shank was soft and fragrant with cinnamon. Under it was an unassuming pile of couscous that sparkled with mint.
BISTROS have been around in San Francisco for years. More than a decade ago, Fringale and Bizou were the first to make a splash. Near them is another vintage bistro, South Park Cafe. They're now a little worn on the edges, but they're still going strong. The new bistros do not feel like flimsy copies. Many have been opened by single owners with a soulful purpose: survival. 
Pascal Rigo, who is a San Francisco version of Brian McNally, is the only real entrepreneur. He has opened a number of bistros and boulangeries over the last three years, including Le Petit Robert, Chez Nous, Bay Bread Boulangerie, Marinette, La Table, Galette and Boulange de Polk. 
"We invest in neighborhoods that were always busy before the dot-com craziness," Mr. Rigo said, "and I think that has helped us. We wanted neighborhoods where people are sleeping, not where people are working."
Each of his places has a slightly different slant. Chez Nous serves bistro food in a tapas style. Galette is a creperie. And La Table is set among expensive boutiques on Sacramento Street. It has a bistro dining room and a more formal dining room. The latter was empty when I visited. The bistro was full.
Like many of the bistros, it has a partially open kitchen, a design fad that has not yet died in this city. It's pleasant to have the visual theater of cooks' heads waving with activity. It gives you a sense of progress, especially when you ask your waiter to give you just one more minute to read the menu, and he takes that to mean 20.
The appetizers at La Table were original, small and tasty little bits in the manner of amuses-bouches. The frisee salad was more about oxtail, which was salty and rich like confit. A rye bread "roestie" -- a k a toast -- was spread with fromage blanc, red onion and a salt-cured anchovy. The toast was springy and crisp, and the topping exploded with flavor. A guinea hen terrine was similarly amplified and had a zippy persimmon chutney on the side for relief.
Despite quite good food, it was the only place where the service felt impersonal, if not rude. When I asked the waiter a question, he said, curtly, "Was I supposed to hear that?"
Was I supposed to leave him a tip? 
Most of the other bistros are small and the staff is attentive. "Many of these places are run not with 6 or 12 partners," said Hubert Keller, the chef and owner of Fleur de Lis. "It's places which are basically run by a couple, and they put what little they have in savings into it. You know, it's like the owner is there. It's that whole feeling that people connect with Europe and France."
Only it's right here in San Francisco. And the oeufs on your frisee are from Napa. The boudin is made in Oakland. And the pommes de terre were planted by a friend of Alice Waters.

Paris in San Francisco: Bistro Food and Boulangeries
HERE are some of the bistros that have opened in the last year or two in San Francisco. Bizou and Fringale are not new, but they set the standard.

ABSINTHE -- 398 Hayes Street (at Gough Street), (415) 551-1590.
BEAUCOUP -- 1001 California Street (at Mason Street), (415) 409-8500.
BIZOU -- 598 Fourth Street (at Brannan Street), (415) 543-2222.
CITIZEN CAKE -- 399 Grove Street (at Gough Street), (415) 861-2228.
CHEZ NOUS -- 1911 Fillmore Street (at Bush Street), (415) 441-8044.
CHEZ PAPA -- 1401 18th Street (at Missouri Street), (415) 824-8210.
CHEZ SPENCER -- 82 14th Street (at Folsom Street), (415) 864-2191.
FLORIO -- 1915 Fillmore Street (at Pine Street), (415) 775-4300.
FRINGALE -- Fourth Street (at Brannan Street), (415) 543-0573.
JEANTY AT JACK'S -- 615 Sacramento (at Montgomery Street), (415) 693-0941.
LA TABLE -- 3640 Sacramento (at Locust Street), (415) 345-8600.
LE PETIT ROBERT -- 2300 Polk Street (at Green Street), (415) 922-8100.
PIPERADE -- 1015 Battery Street (at Green Street), (415) 391-2555.

At the new boulangeries and patisseries in the city, you will find everything from dainty lemon tartlets and baguettes to rustic fluffy quiches made with creme fraiche, and dark little canneles de Bourdeaux.

BAY BREAD BOULANGERIE -- 2325 Pine Street (at Fillmore Street), (415) 440-0356.
CITIZEN CAKE -- 399 Grove Street (at Gough Street), (415) 861-2228.
MARINETTE -- 3352 Steiner Street (at Lombard Street), (415) 614-2941.
TARTINE -- 600 Guerrero Street (at 18th Street), (415) 487-2600.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about French bistros in San Francisco misspelled the name of a restaurant there owned by Hubert Keller, who suggested reasons for the bistros' appeal. It is Fleur de Lys, not Lis.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PARIS BY THE BAY -- Evidence of San Francisco's new bistro culture includes the zinc tabletops at Chez Papa, above; the lamb daube there, top left; the smoked duck breast salad Lyonnaise at Chez Spencer, top center; and the roasted lamb shank at Le Petit Robert, top right. In a city that reveres fresh, locally grown food, traditional French dishes are being updated with new American flavors. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; Richard Gross/Corbis Golden Gate Bridge )(pg. F1); SURPRISING -- Familiar food is tweaked at Le Petit Robert in San Francisco, top. MELTING -- The buttery foie gras terrine at Chez Spencer, above. BAKING -- The chef, Laurent Katgely, works from a brick oven at Chez Spencer, right. TRANSPORTING -- BeauCoup feels like France, except for its hopping bar, below. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); WHEN SOURDOUGH IS NOT ENOUGH -- Michelle Schade, left, bags a baguette at Bay Bread Boulangerie, above, one of the French-style spots now popular in San Francisco. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%) RESTAURANTS 

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (92%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



314 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2095 words

HEADLINE: Fatwa Victim or a Fraud?; 
Mystery Enshrouds Kola Boof, Writer and Internet Persona

BYLINE:  By JULIE SALAMON 

 BODY:
Who is Kola Boof?
 She might be, as she claims, the object of a fatwa ordering her death because of her vehement criticism of the Muslim government in her native Sudan. Or she might be, as some have suggested, an author trying to bring attention to her books by fabricating a provocative public persona, using the specter of fatwa as a marketing ploy. 
 Either way, the Kola Boof story demonstrates how flashpoints are reached in cyberspace, the new forum for underground literature and politics, where fact and myth become indistinguishable and publicity campaigns become a kind of performance art. Without the imprimatur of a major publisher or a mainstream review or a public appearance, she has managed to instigate anger and discussion about her work.
Ms. Boof said a fatwa was ordered up on her in London for her stand against organized religion, but particularly against Arab Muslims. Sudanese officials in London, however, said that was not true. One of those officials did denounce her in Al-Sharq Al-Awsat, a leading Arab-language newspaper in the United Kingdom. A number of well-known African-American activists have taken up her causes, which include her opposition to slavery in the Sudan and her condemnation of stoning and female castration and other harsh measures taken against African women. 
They include Derrick Bell, the New York University law professor and author of several books, most recently "Ethical Ambition: Living a Life of Meaning and Worth," and Joe Madison, the Washington radio personality who for 14 years was on the board of the N.A.A.C.P. The attention has translated into sales. "Long Train to the Redeeming Sin" (North African Book Exchange), her collection of earthy and impressionistic stories about racial identity, has been selling briskly on AALBC.com, an online service that specializes in books for African-Americans, but is by no means a best seller.
Ms. Boof's Web site appeared on the Internet a few months ago, presenting her as a mysterious but alluring figure, whose life provided a potent brew of international politics, diplomatic and sexual -- part Graham Greene, part Jacqueline Susann. Among other things, she claims she briefly was Osama bin Laden's mistress, in the late 1990's.
More often, in subsequent postings and interviews, she invokes the memory of her father, an Egyptian archaeologist, and her mother, a Somali nomad. Ms. Boof said they were killed in front of her in Sudan, where the family was then living, and that her given name was Naima Bahri. Sometimes she says she was 10 or 12, sometimes 8. After that, she said she was adopted by an African-American family in Washington, whose names she won't reveal.
Her startling author photograph for "Long Train," in which she poses defiant and naked from the waist up, has become the subject of much lewd Internet chat. Ms. Boof said she wanted to discredit the notion that breasts were sexual objects and to celebrate the nakedness of African women. She has deplored the influence of Western culture on African women, and certainly, "Long Train" presents a bleak and angry vision of their lives.
Soon she was being touted on radio programs as an advocate for the cause of southern Sudan in the 20-year civil war between the Arab-dominated government in the north and the subjugated black African south. She says she was born Muslim, but has since rejected organized religion. In a statement posted on the Web, she says, "For just as Harvard University is an institution created by men so is every religion."
Now newspapers have begun associating her name with fatwa in diverse outlets like Pravda, The Village Voice, The Washington Times and The New York Post.
The Sudan People's Liberation Movement, representing the non-Muslim faction in the civil war, embraced her and then backed away, as Ms. Boof's personal, if not literary, credentials have been called into question. They may be more cautious, too, since the Sudan Peace Act was signed by President Bush on Oct. 21, which authorizes $300 million in aid to the south and requires the two sides to negotiate in good faith.
"Her writing speaks of anguish and protest and of fighting against an unjust regime," said Deng Ajak by telephone from London, where he is secretary general of the Sudan Commission for Human Rights. Mr. Deng has read excerpts of "Long Train" on the Internet, but has not read the book itself.
Mr. Deng added: "But when she said in one of her own e-mails to me that she had a brief encounter of dating Osama bin Laden, I said to my colleagues that we need to pull the plug on this one. This could be one of the most impressively spun and choreographed pieces of fiction that one could imagine, or she may be legitimate. That is a big maybe for now."
Ms. Boof manages simultaneously to seek publicity and to shroud herself in secrecy. Her publisher isn't just obscure; it is curiously absent. Calls taken by an answering machine at the Fullerton, Calif., office of the North African Book Exchange went unanswered. But her book "Long Train" does exist.
"I can't deny that I'm a conniving person," said Ms. Boof -- or a woman who said she was Ms. Boof -- in a series of telephone conversations that took place after many e-mail messages were exchanged. She made the calls, refusing to divulge her whereabouts, except to say she was somewhere near Los Angeles. "I came from hell," she said. "My parents were killed in my presence. That changed me forever. I have to manipulate the system, and I don't mind if you publish that. Women have to manipulate the system to teach young women how to grow up and be better women than I am."
"People can't believe my life is real," she said. "But the pain of it has been like living in a furnace."
She said she was shot at outside Los Angeles -- and that she shot back -- and that she was under F.B.I. protection. The F.B.I. in Los Angeles said, through a spokeswoman, the agency had no knowledge of Ms. Boof. This didn't faze Ms. Boof. "That's their way of protecting me," she said.
On the telephone, the woman was articulate and loquacious, moving from humorous self-deprecation to passionate denunciation of the treatment of women in Islamic countries. She told flamboyant stories about her life in Egypt and Morocco, where, she said, she was a B-movie actress and a high-level prostitute, operating in luxury hotels, not on the street. 
Her "sudden" appearance on the Internet several months ago wasn't accidental. "Long Train" was originally published in Arabic, in North Africa, and released in this country a year ago. Yi Nee Ling, then the public relations person for North African Book Exchange, created the campaign to make the writer's work known to African-American female audiences in the United States. "I used the Internet to give the world an 'African Garbo,' " Ms. Ling said by e-mail. "But Kola Boof seems to be tearing it down. She talks too much in my opinion." Ms. Ling said she recently parted ways with the publisher and Ms. Boof.
The campaign was successful in a modest way. "Kola Boof is good at promotion, at getting her name out, and moving her book," said Troy Johnson, who founded AALBC.com, the online bookselling service, in 1998. "For an author not published by a major house, her book is doing better than any book of its type." But sales are still small, even though Ms. Boof is one of his top sellers. "In the hundreds, not thousands," Mr. Johnson said.
By early November, Ms. Boof's public relations strategists also included Ajowa Nzinga Ifateyo, a political activist and former reporter for The Los Angeles Times and The Miami Herald, and Maria Sliwa (sister of Curtis Sliwa, who 20 years ago attracted much attention with his Guardian Angels, self-appointed protectors of New York City's subway passengers). Ms. Sliwa, now 47 and studying journalism at New York University, has traveled to Sudan and has been working to bring attention to human-rights violations there. 
Ms. Ifateyo signed on after reading about Kola Boof on the Internet. "I was so moved, so touched, so sad," she said. For two weeks, every day at the bus stop I'd think about her. What can I do to help this woman. I sent her an e-mail to let her know I support her." Only then did she read "Long Train," which fascinated her and disturbed her. "I had never seen such beautiful descriptions of black skin," she said. "As a fellow writer, I thought she was just wonderful."
Ms. Sliwa and Ms. Ifateyo contacted many news organizations, including The New York Times, to announce that demonstrations on behalf of Kola Boof would take place at the United Nations in New York and in front of the Sudanese Embassy in Washington on Nov. 7. Only a handful of people turned up (including this reporter), but that fact was omitted in subsequent public discussions on the Internet. Ms. Boof's ranking on Amazon.com's mysterious daily measurement of its book sales jumped from 190,000 to 951 in a day and she was booked on several radio programs.
One of those shows was "Back to Africa," Mr. Madison's nationally broadcast satellite radio show. "Her conviction and commitment to the whole Sudan peace effort just impressed me," said Mr. Madison, who for six years has been trying to bring the spotlight to the issue of slavery in Sudan. He interviewed Ms. Boof for an hour, by telephone.
"I didn't approach this interview naively, and I questioned her extensively and she didn't hesitate," he said. As for her claim of death threats, Mr. Madison said: "This is not a unique experience. That's something that happens to most people who have taken up this issue. The more visible you are, the more vocal you are, the more threats you receive."
Alicia Banks, a former talk-show host in Atlanta, now living in Arkansas, said she has met Ms. Boof, the first time in 1997. "My biggest concern for Kola is that she is haunted by some deep, dark secrets," Ms. Banks said.
Sudanese diplomats insist that no fatwa has been issued. "It's quite bizarre and baseless this claim," Jamal Ibrahim, the deputy head of the Sudanese mission to Britain, said in a telephone interview. "My own view is that she wants to make use of this to help her in selling her books. It is a bizarre exercise in public relations."
That didn't stop Mr. Ibrahim from contributing to the publicity, by writing an attack on Ms. Boof in Al-Sharq Al-Awsat. "Kola Boof is a 'phobia-maker' produced by the new crusade to tell us that she came to fight Islam," Mr. Ibrahim wrote.
"This woman who is full of insanity and falsehood and dishonesty has nothing to make us afraid of her," he continued. "She is a wooden cross planted in the field to terrify the birds from eating the fruits when they are ripe, though she is standing in a spot where the Islamic world should pay attention." 
But criticism isn't the same as a fatwa, which is a juristic opinion issued by a Muslim scholar to address a specific problem, that can be related to political, economic or social issues. "Nobody issued a fatwa against Kola Boof," said Sheikh Omar Bakri, a senior judge of the Islamic Sharia court in London. "I know she was criticized by a Muslim official in London, but he isn't in a position to issue a fatwa."
Professor Bell of N.Y.U. read "Long Train" and admired it. He began an e-mail correspondence with Ms. Boof several months ago when she sent him a fan e-mail message and asked for advice about publishing. Though he never met her, she confided in him about problems with her boyfriend and her fears of being assassinated.
"She never asked me for money or to do anything on her behalf," he said. "I volunteered to send her work to my agent. I have no sense she's a sham. Am I the most knowledgeable person in recognizing a hoax? No. But I do recognize jive and I got no sense of that."
Not all of Ms. Boof's supporters feel as certain. Ms. Sliwa has distanced herself because she is worried that the murkiness surrounding Ms. Boof could hurt the cause of those opposing the Khartoum government. "I don't think it behooves our human rights interest to connect ourselves with someone who is inconsistent and can't prove her identity," Ms. Sliwa said.
And there are those of Sudanese origin who are frustrated that it takes a Kola Boof to bring attention to the problems in Sudan. "I don't know why she wants to be an activist," said Edward Malwal, an international trade specialist for the state of Connecticut. Mr. Malwal has lived in exile from his country since 1979 because of the political situation there. "Why doesn't she let her writing speak for itself?" he asked.
But then she wouldn't be Kola Boof -- or would she?

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sudan-born writer Kola Boof; right, cover of her book "Long Train." (Saadian-Karnak Films International)(pg. E1); Kola Boof when she was a child in London, en route to Washington. (Unicef)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WRITERS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); RELIGION (78%); LITERATURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); PUBLISHING (72%); FAMILY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) BOOF, KOLA; SALAMON, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) SUDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOMALIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) SUDAN

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



315 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 533 words

PERSON: To Huu 

HEADLINE: To Huu, 82, Vietnam Poet And Communist Voice, Dies 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
To Huu, who was often called the poet laureate of the Communists' victories over the French and the Americans in Vietnam and who went on to high posts in the country's postwar government, died in Hanoi on Monday. He was 82.
 His death was reported yesterday by Agence France-Presse. 
 "He was a great poet who used his poetry as a means to gather and encourage people around the revolutionary cause over the decades," said the newspaper Saigon Giai Phong, which is controlled by Vietnam's Communist government.
To Huu was one of a group of Vietnamese poets who wrote about little else than the Vietnam War, urging people to fight, uphold socialism and defeat the United States. But Nguyen Ngoc Bich, an expert on Vietnamese literature, argued in a 1972 publication that To Huu transcended his peers.
In a lecture included in a booklet "Some Aspects of Vietnamese Culture" (Southern Illinois University, 1972), Mr. Ngoc Bich wrote that To Huu "alone manages to instill some force and vitality into his work." He added, "The others are no more than hacks."
But the poet's ideology was never subtle. In a poem quoted in The New York Times magazine in 1981, To Huu lamented the death of Stalin. It read in part:
 Oh, Stalin! Oh, Stalin!
The love I bear my father,
my mother, my wife,
myself
It's nothing beside the love I bear you.
Oh, Stalin! Oh, Stalin! 
What remains of the earth
and of the sky!
Now that you are dead.
Doan Van Toai, the author and a former South Vietnamese dissenter who had come to oppose the Communists, wrote that it seemed "incredible" that such a poem could be written in Vietnam, which is known for the strength of family love.
In To Huu's poem, "Since Then," quoted in "A Thousand Years of Vietnamese Poetry" (Knopf, 1975), he wrote of the moment he discovered Communism, "summer light has burned in me." Another poem in the same book celebrates the joys of sabotaging a road.
To Huu was born Nguyen Kim Thanh in Thua Thien Province in 1920 and educated in Hue, according to "Dictionary of the Vietnam War" (Peter Bedrick Books, 1981). He became a Communist as a student in 1938, and was jailed the following year for his political activities.
He escaped from prison in 1942 and was appointed in August 1945 as a regional information chief for the Viet Minh, the guerrilla opponents of the French colonizers. 
After the defeat of France in 1954 and the partitioning of Vietnam, To Huu became deputy culture minister in the North Vietnamese government. In 1956, he was appointed to the Central Committee of the Communist Party.
During the war with the United States, he held various positions in the government, including chief of the propaganda, education and scientific boards of the Central Committee organization. In 1976, he rose to the ruling Politburo.
He became deputy prime minister and was considered a candidate for prime minister until he was dismissed from the cabinet in 1986 for mishandling the economy.
His ability to combine true lyricism with revolutionary propaganda was his greatest legacy, as suggested by the poem "Little Luom." It tells of his nephew being killed in "a jet of blood." The poem ends gently:
His cap askew
he whistled away
like a warbler
on a garden path. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); POETRY (92%); WRITERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

TO HUU; MARTIN, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



316 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Buy Our Way Out of Trouble 

BYLINE:  By Lizabeth Cohen; Lizabeth Cohen, a professor of history at Harvard, is author of the forthcoming "A Consumers' Republic: The Politics of Mass Consumption in Postwar America."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Retailers are not the only Americans paying more attention to the ringing of cash registers than Christmas bells this holiday season. Politicians, the news media and even some consumers anxiously await the daily reports on how we're doing with our spending, as if hourly notification of the fluctuations in the stock market were not feedback enough about the nation's precarious economic health. Consuming, we're repeatedly told, is our best hope for keeping recession at bay.
 The obsession with consumer spending is not as recent a phenomenon as we might think. It is worth recalling that America's astounding recovery in the late 1940's and 1950's, after 15 years of debilitating Depression and war, was built around a mass-consumption-oriented, demand-driven economy. Government officials, business leaders and organized labor all shared the view that "our economy feeds and grows on purchasing power as a baby does on milk," as the Congress of Industrial Organizations put it. 
 Spending earned income, moreover, was not enough. Vastly expanded consumer credit inflated that purchasing power, to the point where at least half of all household appliances and 60 percent of all cars were purchased on credit, contributing to a whopping nineteenfold growth in the value of installment credit between 1945 and 1960. Typically, when President Dwight D. Eisenhower faced a deepening recession in 1958, he promised that an economic recovery would result from "millions of citizens making their purchases, having greater confidence," which the government would support with more home and highway building and the easing of credit.
Americans of this early postwar era had more than economic ambitions for a dynamic mass-consumption economy. They believed it would nurture a more egalitarian and democratic nation as well. Citizens, living better than ever before, would be on an equal footing with their prospering neighbors. And as Vice President Richard M. Nixon reminded Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev in their famous "kitchen debate" outside a model suburban house at the American trade exhibition in Moscow in 1959, Americans exercised their cherished freedoms by making independent decisions in markets as well as in politics.
Less often calculated in these boom times, however, were the costs of entrusting these long-sought American ideals of social equality and political democracy to private consumption, even when supported by new government spending in the way Eisenhower promised: a G.I. Bill of Rights that helped returning vets buy homes and thereby qualify for more consumer credit; federally funded highways that literally paved the way to newly built houses and shopping centers in expanding suburbs; income tax deductions for mortgages and credit that encouraged still greater consumer spending.
But even with rising tides of prosperity, the postwar consumer culture fed inequalities that are still very much with us. As we embrace brisk sales as an answer to our current economic ills, it bears noting that consumerism has played a role in reinforcing social biases and prejudices. Consider, for example, shopping malls, whose daily sales receipts are an indicator of our hoped-for recovery -- and whose history shows the ties between mass consumption and inequality.
The regional shopping centers became the quintessential retail structure to emerge in postwar America. In a remarkably short time, they displaced urban downtowns. The suburban share of total metropolitan retail sales mushroomed from 4 percent in 1939 to almost 60 percent in 1961 in the 10 largest population centers. By 1976, 78 percent of total department store sales took place in branch stores, most of them in shopping centers strategically located at highway exits and along the busiest thoroughfares in suburbia.
As retailers chose to bring "the market to the people instead of people to the market" -- as an article in The New York Times Magazine described the strategy in 1953 -- they inevitably favored some people over others. Shopping centers aimed at what Macy's Annual Report for 1955 called "middle-income groups" explicitly distanced themselves from consumers deemed undesirable because they were too poor, black, or young and unruly. At a time when many low-income Americans didn't own cars, the few bus routes to shopping centers were carefully planned to transport nondriving customers, particularly women, from nearby suburbs, not low-income consumers from inner cities.
In a troubled city like Newark, all the major downtown department stores closed as suburban shoppers started staying closer to home. In addition, the largely black Central Ward became a commercial wasteland after the 1967 race riots, which prompted white-owned stores to close and banks and insurance companies to resist supporting new investment. Thus city residents without cars were largely excluded from participating in the promises of postwar consumerism. And if customers looking conspicuously different from typical suburbanites actually made it to the mall, they were often met by unwelcoming security guards who had been hired by management and were not accountable to any public authority.
Inequality manifests itself in other ways. For example, malls have done little to encourage public transportation to accommodate the low-paid, urban workers who now dominate shopping center sales forces. (Initially, many of these jobs were held by suburban housewives, who then turned to more lucrative careers in the 1970's.) The death in 1995 of a black retail clerk from Buffalo, killed trying to cross the seven-lane highway that separated her bus stop from her job inside a suburban mall, was only the most brutal example of this form of discrimination.
The location of shopping centers reinforced other discriminatory policies. As developers sought sites close to the affluent populations to which they catered, their presence augmented the prosperity of host communities, exacerbating an already unequal distribution of economic resources in metropolitan areas. Not only did a suburban municipality with a shopping center find its residential property values increased by convenient proximity to stores, but the presence of major commercial development greatly enhanced its tax base and, in turn, its core services like schools, which are funded overwhelmingly through local property taxes.
While Newark's commercial infrastructure was crumbling, a mere dozen miles away the upscale Short Hills Mall poured dollars into suburban Millburn's tax coffers. By the mid-1970's, it had helped to raise that town's per-pupil school expenditure to 36 percent above Newark's, while its property tax rate was actually 41 percent lower. Education, the major vehicle to upward mobility in postwar America, became captive to the shifting geography of commerce.
So before we praise consumer spending too lavishly this holiday season, it is worth recognizing that totaling up the dollars spent is not enough. Last week, Wellington E. Webb, the mayor of Denver, made this point when he implored his fellow citizens to do their holiday shopping in city stores rather than over the Internet because local merchants and the city's sales-tax-dependent coffers were suffering from the surge in e-commerce. One can appreciate Mr. Webb's sentiment. A broad-based recovery is defined not just by dollars spent but also by who has dollars to spend -- and where they are able to spend them.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Hoey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); SUBURBS (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (53%); INCOME TAX (50%); TRADE SHOWS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



317 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Urged to Promote Flow of Refugees From North Korea 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
In 1989, Hungary snipped open its barbed-wire border with Austria, allowing thousands of East Germans vacationing in Hungary to escape Communism. The tide of refugees turned into a flood, hastening the collapse not only of East Germany, but of the Iron Curtain, historians say.
 Now a growing number of Bush administration officials, policy experts and lawmakers say they are hoping to set off a similar chain reaction inside North Korea. They argue that the stream of refugees from the starved, Stalinist nation into China could sharply increase, particularly if China agreed not to send North Koreans back, and if South Korea and the United States took in more escapees. 
 "If this regime were actually to collapse, it won't be through an elite coup," said Victor D. Cha, associate professor of government and a Korea expert at Georgetown University. "Real regime change will come from the bottom, from people who can't oppose the regime but who can vote with their feet."
A senior administration official said: "When Hungary and Czechoslovakia opened their borders to East Germans, it helped speed the collapse of the Berlin Wall. Supporting refugees from North Korea could stress their system, too."
In Congress, Senator Sam Brownback, the conservative Republican from Kansas, and Senator Edward Kennedy, the liberal Democrat from Massachusetts, have sponsored legislation that would remove a provision in immigration law that makes it difficult for North Koreans to seek asylum in the United States. 
House Republicans have also called on the administration to share the costs of resettling North Korean refugees with South Korea, China, Russia and other Asian countries, much as it did with Vietnamese boat people in the 1970's.
"It looks like factors are lining up and history is clearly against the North Korean regime," Mr. Brownback said in a recent interview. "It's a failed state. It's starving its own people."
The administration and refugee advocates are also calling on Beijing to give the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees access to the North Korean border region, where it can screen potential refugees and assist their safe movement to other nations. As the flow of refugees rose, China expelled the United Nations from the border in 1999, arguing that most North Koreans were merely trying to better their economic circumstances.
"I think the Chinese are beginning to understand it's a problem," a senior State Department official said.
Another senior official said that once South Korea elected a new president this month, Washington would press harder for Seoul to accept more refugees. Although the Constitution states that all North Koreans can become citizens of the South, Seoul has accepted only about 2,000 North Korean refugees since 1954, experts said. 
Almost no North Koreans can escape across the heavily mined and militarized border with South Korea, which has also been ambivalent about the difficulties of assimilating such refugees and concerned that some are North Korean agents. 
"The South Koreans have not been famously sympathetic," said Nicholas Eberstadt, at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington.
But if South Korea accepts more refugees, China may allow the United Nations to shelter and feed them en route, and perhaps open a resettlement office along the border. Doing that, in turn, could encourage more northerners to flee, refugee advocates contend.
"China doesn't want to have to feed tens of thousands of refugees," the senior administration official said. "But if they thought these people would only stay a few weeks, it might change their mind."
President Bush has appeared to endorse a policy of helping the refugees, telling The Washington Post in a recent interview that he loathed Kim Jong Il and disagreed with those who say "we don't need to move too fast" against North Korea because of the financial costs. 
"Either you believe in freedom," Mr. Bush said, "and worry about the human condition, or you don't."
But there are sharp differences within the administration over how hard to push the refugee policy, with some officials arguing that the North Koreans might just crack down harder on border crossers. "This is not the East German regime," said one senior official. "It's much more brutal."
No one knows exactly how many tens of thousands of North Koreans are in the neighboring region of China. But the number is thought to have risen with a deepening famine in North Korea, which aid groups say has cost 2 million lives.
Over the summer, refugee groups organized daring attempts by North Koreans to break into embassies in Beijing to seek asylum and to illustrate the refugees' plight. The Chinese allowed some to travel to South Korea but it arrested many others and returned them to the north. The Chinese have since fortified security around the embassy compounds, and escape attempts have declined sharply.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1989, when Hungary removed fences on Austria's border, thousands fled Communism. A similar stimulus is urged to free North Koreans. (Gino Molin/Kronen Zeitung, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POLITICS (65%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%) UNITED NATIONS; UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSION FOR REFUGEES 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (56%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (50%) DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (95%); HUNGARY (95%); GERMANY (94%); AUSTRIA (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



318 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Charges Issued In Smuggling Of Parts to Iran 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
A crackdown on smuggling military parts to Iran led to federal indictments today against three executives and three companies charged with violating export laws.
 Federal prosecutors said the companies had tried to sell engines, gear assemblies, spare parts and munitions for fighter planes and military helicopters without required State Department approvals. The sales, the prosecutors said, went through a sham Austrian corporation set up by undercover Customs Service agents. 
 "It's the seller's obligation to make sure export laws are followed, and these companies acted as if they just didn't care," Steven M. Biskupic, the United States attorney for Milwaukee, said in an interview. "In the past, these types of violations may have been viewed as more regulatory than anything. In the post-Sept. 11 period, the dangers and the reasons for these restrictions are much more readily apparent."
Charged with violating export laws were Jami S. Choudhury, 38, of Wauwatosa, Wis.; William W. Manning, 55, of Clinton, Utah, and the company where he is a vice president, Camnetics Manufacturing of Oregon, Wis.; Andrew A. Adams, 63, of Monroe, N.C., and the company that he heads, Equipment and Supply International; and Rick's Manufacturing and Supply of Harrah, Okla.
None of the defendants was taken into custody because prosecutors said they were not considered to pose a threat or a flight risk. 
Mr. Adams said he did not know of the indictment until a reporter called him this evening. "I don't know anything about this," he said, declining to answer further questions. 
At issue, prosecutors contend, are broad violations of export laws punishable by up to 10 years in prison and $1 million in fines. They did not say the executives or companies knew that the military parts they were selling were headed for Iran or anywhere else.
Mr. Choudhury has been linked to the Iranian black market. He was sentenced to six months of home confinement in 2000 for lying to a federal agent about sales of airplane parts to Iran. Mr. Choudhury said at his sentencing that he was "humiliated enough to last a lifetime."
Federal officials said today that they believed that he resumed the illegal export business not long after his release from confinement. 
The indictment against Mr. Choudhury charges that he and executives at Rick's Manufacturing arranged to have five shipments of rebuilt starter engines, designed for use in C-130 transports, shipped to Taiwan. Officials charged that Mr. Choudhury falsified invoices to understate the $20,000 value of the engines and to make it appear that the sales did not require an export license.
Prosecutors said the defendants also arranged to sell parts and supplies for F-4 and F-15 fighters and Sikorsky military helicopters.
The case grew out of recent cases in Milwaukee and elsewhere in which businesses sold military and aircraft parts, computer supplies and gas testers to Iran in violation of bans.
In 1995, President Bill Clinton imposed trade sanctions against Iran for what he called its sponsorship of terrorism and pursuit of weapons of mass destruction. President Bush has declared Iran one of the three countries of an "axis of evil."
Concerned about growing black-market sales, authorities in Milwaukee set up an undercover operation, posing as buyers in Vienna for black-market supplies.
"We've had an ongoing problem with people trying to purchase weapons for Iran, missile components, military jet components and more," a spokesman for the Customs Service, Dean Boyd, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (89%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HELICOPTERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); PRISONS (68%) ARMS SALES ABROAD 

ORGANIZATION: CAMNETICS MANUFACTURING; EQUIPMENT & SUPPLY INTERNATIONAL; RICK'S MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY; STATE DEPARTMENT; CUSTOMS SERVICE 

PERSON: LICHTBLAU, ERIC; CHOUDHURY, JAMI S; MANNING, WILLIAM W; ADAMS, ANDREW A; BISKUPIC, STEVEN M (US ATTY) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); AUSTRIA (72%) IRAN

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



319 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Text of Statement on Interest Rate Policy 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, voted to leave the benchmark rate unchanged:
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 1/4 percent. 
The committee continues to believe that this accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity. 
 The limited number of incoming economic indicators since the November meeting, taken together, are not inconsistent with the economy working its way through its current soft spot. 
In these circumstances, the committee believes that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are balanced with respect to the prospects for both goals for the foreseeable future. 
Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were Alan Greenspan, chairman; William J. McDonough, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke, Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Jerry L. Jordan; Donald L. Kohn, Robert D. McTeer Jr.; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



320 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 439 words

PERSON: John R. Dellenback 

HEADLINE: John R. Dellenback, 84, Former Oregon Republican Congressman 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
John Richard Dellenback, a four-term Oregon congressman, Peace Corps director and leader in Christian college education, died on Saturday at a hospital in Medford, Ore. He was 84 and lived in Medford.
 The cause was viral pneumonia, his family said. 
 A prominent Rockefeller Republican and lawyer, Mr. Dellenback represented southwestern Oregon in Congress from 1967 to 1974. 
He took a special interest in education and natural resources and wrote the bill that established the Oregon Dunes National Recreation Area in 1972. The legislation shielded a 47-mile stretch of undulating beaches from Florence to Coos Bay, with majestic white dunes that slope as high as 500 feet from the Pacific shore. The measure preserved one of the West Coast's natural treasures.
While in Congress, Mr. Dellenback sought a balance between energy concerns and conservation. He helped put amendments into the legislative go-ahead measure for the trans-Alaska pipeline, assuring that the pipeline's beneficiaries would be held responsible for any damaging oil spills.
His run for a fifth term foundered in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal. He fell in 1974 to a Democratic challenger; it was the first defeat of a sitting congressman in Oregon since 1932.
President Gerald R. Ford kept Mr. Dellenback in Washington as director of the Peace Corps. He held that post until 1977.
Mr. Dellenback was known among his colleagues on the Hill as a diligent straight arrow who shunned alcohol and tobacco. He had long been active in the work of his Presbyterian Church at home.
After leaving the Peace Corps, he became president of what was then known as the Christian College Coalition in Washington, an alliance of 10 small evangelical four-year colleges. Under his tutelage, its membership swelled to 77 by the time he left in 1988. (The coalition, renamed the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities, now has about 100 members.)
Born in Chicago, John Dellenback graduated from Yale in 1940 with a degree in economics. He was a lieutenant in the Navy in World War II, then went on to earn a law degree from the University of Michigan in 1949. He taught economic law at the University of Oregon for two years before going into practice in Medford.
He was elected to the Oregon Legislature in 1960 and served until his election to Congress. He was also a delegate to the Republican National Conventions of 1964, 1968 and 1972.
Mr. Dellenback is survived by his wife of 54 years, Mary Jane Benedict Dellenback; two sons, Richard L. and David A., of Salem, Ore.; a daughter, Barbara C., of Eugene, Ore.; a brother, Robert J., of Rome, Ga.; and three grandsons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. Dellenback shortly after his last term in Congress. (United Press International, 1975) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); BEACHES (76%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); OIL SPILLS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); WORLD WAR II (66%); PNEUMONIA (57%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (84%)

DELLENBACK, JOHN RICHARD; SAXON, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); ROME, GA, USA (50%) OREGON, USA (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



321 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Cup of Kafka? Coffee Roaster Cited for Coffee Smell 

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
On 19th Street in Brooklyn, where Donald Schoenholt has his factory, industrial odors abound. 
 Depending on the wind, the dark tang of ink from the printing plant next door might mingle with the fumes of solvent and paint from the signmaker up the street or the auto-body shops along Third Avenue. A constant olfactory drone of diesel exhaust permeates the neighborhood, and the Gowanus Expressway passes almost overhead. 
 So Mr. Schoenholt, president of a company that calls itself the city's oldest coffee roaster, was more than a little surprised on the warm day last June when a city inspector handed him a summons for polluting the air around his plant, on the outskirts of Sunset Park. 
The problem: "Offensive coffee odors." The potential fine: Up to $400.
Mr. Schoenholt's latest hearing date is next Tuesday. He intends to fight.
"This is not a smell that makes people sick," he said yesterday at the warehouselike headquarters of Gillies Coffee Company, as a hot load of decaf Colombian beans tumbled dark-roast brown from a chute. "This is one of those sweet smells like cut flowers, like fresh-baked bread, that's part and parcel of life in every city across the world."
Mr. Schoenholt, 57, said that Gillies, which supplies "coffee bars, private clubs, fine dining rooms, starred restaurants and boutique hotels" as well as Fairway supermarkets and other retailers, was being threatened by the very city it has called home for 162 years.
But the City Department of Environmental Protection said it had little choice but to issue the violation, after receiving several complaints from a nearby resident.
The administrative code under which Gillies was cited specifies that "no person shall cause or permit the emission of air contaminant, including odorous air contaminant . . . if the air contaminant . . . may cause detriment to the health, safety, welfare or comfort of any person." 
The code names 32 sources of contamination, including slaughterhouses, bone distilleries, coal tar plants and sulfuric acid makers. Coffee roasters do not appear on the list, but Charles G. Sturcken, special counsel to the Department of Environmental Protection, said that there was plenty of room for subjective judgments of offensiveness.
"From time to time," he said, "what can be normal smells that one might appreciate in the city can be, if they continue for hours and hours, considered noxious by some people. We've given these violations to Krispy Kremes. We've given them to pickle manufacturers."
In fact, one of Mr. Schoenholt's neighbors said that the vent stack on top of the roasting plant really did give off a nasty smell sometimes.
"It's really bad," said Michael Alfonso, who was stringing Christmas lights in front of the house he grew up in, directly across the street from the plant. "It smells like burning, melting plastic." Mr. Alfonso said he did not call the city, and Mr. Sturcken would not identify the complainant.
Yesterday afternoon, Mr. Alfonso, 38, said the factory smelled fine -- "like fresh-brewed coffee" -- but the plastic smell, he said, gives him nausea and headaches.
Mr. Schoenholt said the smell could not be coming from him. "There's no plastic used in the process at all," he said. Only coffee beans go into his roaster, the walls of which are lined with brick and steel, he said.
This is not the first time a coffee roaster has run afoul of the smell police. In 1995, a Cooper's Coffee bar on the Upper East Side was fined repeatedly at the request of a woman who lived above it and said the smell made her sick.
But the largely industrial north end of Sunset Park is not the thickly residential Upper East Side. When Mr. Schoenholt moved his company there in 1991 from Greenwich Village -- encouraged, he said, by a city program to help manufacturers move from Manhattan to other boroughs -- he was one of more than a dozen roasters in the area, clustered around the Continental Terminals, at that time the biggest port for green coffee in the Northeast. The coffee trade has since moved to ports in New Jersey, and all the roasters moved out except for Gillies. 
While the fine Mr. Schoenholt faces is not crippling, he said it was important to fight it. "Once it has been established either through conviction or because you admit guilt by paying a fine," he said, "you are on the slippery slope. It's a matter of time before you're forced to move your business from New York City."
So far, Gillies has lined up the support of a few elected officials. State Senator Carl Kruger, who represents the Brooklyn neighborhood where its co-owner, Hy Chabbott, lives, called the summons "a disgusting and despicable act," and plans to hold a news conference today at the factory.
If he cannot beat the violation, Mr. Schoenholt said, he does not know what he will do. Engineers have told him that there is no way to stop a coffee roasting plant from smelling like roasting coffee from time to time.
Mr. Sturcken said maybe the Department of Environmental Protection could help. "We could send some inspectors out there," he said. "Sometimes we have a good way to advise them on some of the odors."
Mr. Sturcken was asked if all the hundreds of cafes and shops that now roast their own coffee were potentially in danger.
"You know," he replied, "we're complaint-driven. You never know what the next unfortunate little economic boomlet in a product is going to do to the quality of life or to someone's sensibilities."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Donald Schoenholt denies that the aromas from Gillies Coffee Company are offensive. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Gillies Coffee Company is in a Brooklyn neighborhood rife with industrial odors. But it was the coffee smell that inspired a neighbor's complaint. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (93%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (90%); AIR POLLUTANTS (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); POULTRY PROCESSING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); AIR POLLUTION (74%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); DISTILLERIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); CHRISTMAS (50%) COFFEE; ODORS 

COMPANY: GILLIES COFFEE CO (69%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GILLIES COFFEE COMPANY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (69%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%) SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE; 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY; SCHOENHOLT, DONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



322 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Sees No Winners if the Transit Workers Strike 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki urged the transit workers' union yesterday not to strike this weekend and warned of dire consequences if it does.
 Mr. Pataki said that a transit strike, which would be illegal under state law, would be bad not just for the city, but also for the union that represents 34,000 subway and bus workers. 
 "It would have devastating consequences," Mr. Pataki said. "There are not going to be dire consequences if no one breaks the law."
Mr. Pataki did not specifically say what action he would take if transit workers strike. As governor, he has effective control over the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the city's transit system. 
The union has said that it is threatening to shut down the transit system on Monday if no contract is reached when the union's three-year contract expires.
The two sides remained far apart yesterday, with the union seeking a 24 percent raise over three years, while the M.T.A. has called for a wage freeze in the first year and a raise in the second and third years, but only if the union agrees to productivity increases.
The union resumes high-level talks today with management, with both sides saying the negotiations need to develop some momentum soon if a strike is to be avoided. 
Speaking about the union, Mr. Pataki said, "All we're asking for is that they come to the table and negotiate in good faith, and I am confident the M.T.A. is doing that."
In recent days, the atmosphere surrounding the talks has been especially nasty. Union members are angry about the recent deaths of two subway workers and about the M.T.A.'s proposing, only 10 days before the contract deadline, a wage freeze as well as increased out-of-pocket payments for the workers on pensions and health coverage.
Further aggravating the atmosphere, many union members simply do not believe the authority's claim that it faces a $2.7 billion deficit.
Nonetheless, after a week of attacking the M.T.A., leaders of Transport Workers Union Local 100 signaled yesterday that they would show more flexibility when bargaining resumes today.
Roger Toussaint, the union's president, indicated that the union might reduce its demand for an 8 percent raise a year for three years, but he is insisting that the authority offer something more than a wage freeze. 
Today's talks will be held after a week in which each side has repeatedly attacked the other's proposals and accused the other of misrepresenting its position.
"The next 24, 48 hours are a very important period," said Brian McLaughlin, president of the New York Central Labor Council. "The posturing has been done, and now it's time to get down to some serious bargaining."
The two sides remain so far apart that business leaders, real estate executives and other unions fear that unless both sides are ready to make major concessions, it will be hard to avoid a strike.
Trying to avert a strike, leaders of several unions have asked Mr. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to intervene to pressure the M.T.A. and union to reach an agreement.
Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union as well as chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee, sent Mr. Bloomberg a letter, calling the M.T.A.'s offer "provocative" and saying it could lead to a work stoppage.
"It is in everyone's best interest," she wrote, "that our elected officials use their bully pulpits to reach out to both sides and urge them to negotiate around the clock until a fair settlement is reached."
Since last Thursday, when the M.T.A. released its initial economic offer, Mr. Toussaint has attacked management and rallied the union's members behind him. But one adviser to Mr. Toussaint said yesterday that over the next few days he would stop using such a confrontational tone, in part to pave the way for progress in negotiations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter S. Kalikow, left, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority chairman, and Roger Toussaint, the president of Transport Workers Union Local 100, are among the key negotiators in the contract talks. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); SUBURBS (59%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; STRIKES; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; SUBWAYS; BUSES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



323 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: A Union on the Wrong Track 

 BODY:
Just days before a threatened strike, the New York Transport Workers Union and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority are pretty much where they began their contract talks, on separate tracks to a perilous destination. With no sign of significant movement on either side, New York City's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, has announced contingency plans -- including his own vow to bike to work or pick up hitchhikers in his car.
 The prospect of millions of people biking or hiking in freezing temperatures and negotiating clogged roads during the holiday season is unacceptable, and the transit workers could destroy their union if they take such a foolhardy course. While the blame for the stalled talks must be shared by both sides, the workers have neither the legal nor the moral right to hold the city hostage. 
 The union is demanding a pay hike of 24 percent over three years, while the M.T.A. offers a pay freeze the first year and the possibility of raises thereafter only if productivity merits them. It might be easier for the union to accept that position if the M.T.A. opened its books. The public, which has gotten only a murky picture of how the authority got from a huge surplus to huge deficits in a single year, also deserves fuller accounting.
Roger Toussaint, the transit workers' new leader, does not think the M.T.A. management and New York's political leaders are giving his 34,000 members the respect and attention they deserve. That, and the union's constant complaints about non-economic issues like disciplinary procedures, suggests that this is a situation where gestures of good will by management might go a long way. Gov. George Pataki, who controls the M.T.A. but has been missing from the talks, should either take a more active role or risk sharing the blame if there's a walkout. 
But nothing would excuse a transit strike at a time when the city is in fragile financial and emotional condition. If the transit workers walk out, even for a day, they will be breaking the state's Taylor Law and subject to enormous fines and penalties. Worse, they will lose all claim to public support. New Yorkers would understand the desire to hold out for a decent pay increase if these were ordinary times. But with a deficit of more than $2 billion, they are not. Union leaders can no longer issue fire-breathing ultimatums, as Michael Quill did when he suggested that a judge issuing an injunction in the 1966 strike could drop dead in his black robes. Mr. Toussaint needs to recognize that the old bargaining tactics aren't acceptable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HIKING (71%); SUBURBS (70%); WEATHER (70%); INJUNCTIONS (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; EDITORIALS; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



324 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Schlumberger Is Taking A Charge of $3.17 Billion 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
Schlumberger Ltd., one of the world's largest oil field service companies, said yesterday that it would take $3.17 billion in charges to its fourth-quarter income, largely because of a write-down related to its purchase of an information technology company in 2001.
 The write-downs are part of a sizable revamping the company detailed yesterday that includes trimming 3,300 jobs from its work force of 81,000. 
 Schlumberger warned shareholders on Monday that it would announce a comprehensive list of charges after the stock market closed yesterday. But James H. Stone, an analyst with UBS, noted that the market, when it opens today, might be somewhat surprised by the size of the write-down, in part because it includes charges for the company's seismic operations business, WesternGeco, part of its core oil field services expertise. 
"The size of the charge is a little bit bigger than we thought it was going to be," Mr. Stone said, "but not disturbingly so."
Thomson First Call, which tracks analysts' estimates of companies' results, predicted that Schlumberger would have earnings in the quarter ending Dec. 31 of 34 cents a share, excluding one-time items.
Much of the changes appear to involve a scaling back of the business unit created by the $5.2 billion purchase of the information technology company Sema, which Schlumberger shareholders criticized from the outset. The unit will focus more on regional markets where it is doing well and has the best potential rather than casting a wider net, the company said in a statement.
When Schlumberger acquired Sema, Mr. Stone said, "it thought it could marry Sema's I.T. expertise and its own oil field services strength and offer that to major oil companies around the world."
"They thought they would go in to an oil company and say, 'We should manage your I.T. service infrastructure because we know it better than a generic knowledge-management company like I.B.M. or Accenture because of being in the oil industry,' " he continued. "It doesn't appear to us as if they converted a lot of oil customers."
Mr. Stone noted that Sema might have been hurt by the number of clients it had in the telecommunications and energy sectors, industries that have shrunk sharply the last year.
The Sema charges, which will reduce good will, will total $2.89 billion, or $4.96 a share.
Despite the write-down, "the jury is still out as to whether Sema will work efficiently with Schlumberger," said James K. Wicklund, managing director of energy research at Banc of America Securities. Mr. Wicklund pointed out that Schlumberger's strategy of joining oil field services with an information technology arm could still work and that the retrenching might have as much to do with the overall sluggishness in global information technology markets.
The weak economy and limited oil exploration by oil companies also contributed to the cutbacks at WesternGeco, analysts said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (72%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: SCHLUMBERGER LTD (96%); ACCENTURE PLC (58%); WESTERNGECO LLC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SCHLUMBERGER LTD N V (SLB) 

TICKER: SLB (SWX) (96%); SLB (PAR) (96%); SLB (NYSE) (96%); SCL (LSE) (96%); ACN (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (96%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (96%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (96%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (56%); SIC8713 SURVEYING SERVICES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%) SIC1389 OTHER OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



325 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Hybrid Cars Are Attracting A Broad Range Of Americans 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
When drivers want to make a statement with their cars, the message typically is about status (BMW), hormones (Mustang), power (Hummer) or speed (Porsche). But the latest car-as-statement is an unornamented Japanese subcompact driven by people who want to poke a finger in the eye of Saddam Hussein, the oil sheiks and the neighbors who jump into gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles for a drive to the grocery store.
 The car, the Toyota Prius, is the best seller in a small but soon-to-grow category of vehicles known as hybrids that -- by running on a combination of gas and electric power -- get as much as twice the mileage of conventional cars. It has attracted a bipartisan coterie of customers who say they consider it the anti-S.U.V., a car that makes both a political and environmental statement without demanding too many trade-offs. 
 Prius owners, predictably enough, include Hollywood celebrities who wear their environmentalist sentiments on their sleeves -- actors like Cameron Diaz, Leonardo DiCaprio and Ted Danson. More surprisingly, the car is being bought by county sheriffs and bank executives intent on doing their part, as tensions escalate in the Mideast, to reduce American oil imports. 
"We're, hopefully, setting an example for the community," said Robert Crowder, the sheriff of Martin County, Fla., who has bought 15 hybrids for his department.
In Marion County, Fla., Wyatt Earp, who besides being a descendant of the Wyatt Earp is a fleet manager for the sheriff's office, has bought four Priuses. "This is a technology that will take us out of our dependence on foreign oil," he said.
Ms. Diaz had her latest Prius customized, Hollywood style, with a black paint job and leather seats.
"I wanted to do my part," said the actress, who bought her first Prius a couple of months after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
Driving with a heavy foot in Los Angeles traffic, she got about 18 miles per gallon in her old Mercedes, she said. But, she added, "I can milk 40 to 45 out of the Prius, if I'm driving like a good girl."
Toyota began selling the Prius in the United States, in limited numbers, two years ago, and there are now about 39,000 on American roads. Worldwide, the company hopes to sell 300,000 hybrids annually within five years. It is expected to announce at least one new hybrid model next month at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit -- possibly a version of the Highlander sport utility, people who have been told about the plans say.
Toyota's production plan means "this is going to go from being an environmental curiosity to a commercially important product," said John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.
Not everyone is convinced. Executives at General Motors say they think that adding an electric motor to every car is unduly expensive and will divert resources from what they consider more viable new technologies, including vehicles powered by hydrogen fuel cells.
"I don't think anybody's got confidence that the economics make any sense," Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said in a recent interview.
Others in Detroit, though, are tiptoeing into the business. DaimlerChrysler said last month that it would start selling a hybrid version of its Dodge Ram pickup truck next year, and the Ford Motor Company plans to sell a hybrid version of its Escape sport utility, beginning late next year.
The Prius has an electric motor that takes over for the internal combustion engine at low speeds and when the car stops. Because the battery is charged by the gas engine, the car never needs to be plugged in. The gas engine kicks in at 15 to 20 miles per hour, so the Prius, unlike conventional cars, usually gets its best mileage in city driving. 
Drivers say the silence of the electric motor can be disconcerting at first.
"When you're sitting at a light, you're thinking, 'Did my car just die?' " Ms. Diaz said. "You have to be careful going down alleyways, because people don't see you coming."
James E. Press, the executive vice president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., said the Prius is slightly profitable already -- not counting an undisclosed amount in research and development costs. And if Toyota can reach its sales goals, profit margins will improve significantly.
"When you have that kind of volume to spread the investment over, and anticipated improvement in economies of scale, and improvement of efficiencies of production and design, these vehicles should be as profitable as anything else that we sell," Mr. Press said. 
The Prius is not cheap. Prices start at $20,500, which is $4,500 more than a similar size Toyota Corolla, though buyers qualify for a $2,000 tax deduction intended to encourage sales of fuel-efficient vehicles. Until recently, the Prius was the only four-door hybrid sold in the United States, but Honda -- which has sold its two-door Insight since 1999 -- recently began offering a hybrid Civic, starting at $19,550.
Politicians who drive hybrids include Representative Constance A. Morella, a Republican from Maryland who lost her re-election campaign last month, and Senator Robert F. Bennett, a Republican from Utah. New York City has bought more than 200 Priuses for agencies like its buildings and parks departments.
The Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, a community of nuns based in Monroe, Mich., about 35 miles south of Detroit, bought several of the hybrids; recently, the nuns used them to ferry religious leaders who came here to lobby the Big Three for improvements in fuel efficiency. 
"The Gospel today requires that we respond to the needs of earth," Sister Nancy Cathcart explained.
Robert Goldberg, the president of the Ohio Savings Bank, based in Cleveland, has bought five Priuses so far, and he plans to convert the company's whole fleet of a few dozen cars to hybrids. 
"It's a fight against terrorism," Mr. Goldberg said. "If the United States was not so dependent on oil in the Middle East, we wouldn't have the problem we do." 
Mr. Goldberg used to drive an Audi A6 and says that his gas bill has fallen from nearly $30 a week to $15 every two weeks since he bought a Prius for himself.
Ariel Emanuel, a Hollywood talent agent whose brother Rahm was elected to Congress last month as a Democrat from Chicago, traded in his Ferrari for a Prius. His gas bills of $250 a month have fallen to about $30.
"Every time I get into it, I feel like I'm demonstrating my point of view on national security," Mr. Emanuel said. "Fifteen of the 19 terrorists came from Saudi Arabia. I refuse to give them more money."
Stephen Collins, a star of the WB network's drama "Seventh Heaven," said he bought his Prius at the recommendation of the actor Ed Begley Jr., an environmental activist who also appears on the program.
"It was a personal political reaction to Sept. 11," Mr. Collins said. "It's my personal fantasy that we could turn around to a country like Saudi Arabia and say: 'We love you guys, but we don't need your oil. Knock yourselves out, but we don't need it.' And it wouldn't be that hard to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wyatt Earp has bought four of the gas-electric hybrid Toyota Priuses for the fleet he manages for the Marion County, Fla., sheriff's office. Other Prius owners include the actors Ted Danson, Cameron Diaz and Leonardo DiCaprio. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (87%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (85%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) DIAZ, CAMERON; DICAPRIO, LEONARDO; DANSON, TED; EARP, WYATT (SHERIFF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



326 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Hooked on Oil: Connect the Dots 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Still Lagging on Warming" (editorial, Dec. 8) doesn't make the vital connection between global warming, terrorism and our dependency on Middle East oil. 
 To reduce all three, we should impose a pollution tax on petroleum-based fuels. 
This would accelerate the shift of usage toward alternate sources of energy, more fuel-efficient cars and homes, and mass transit. 
Gradually raising the pollution tax over a period of years would give users time to update. Tax credits for expenditures on energy-efficient cars, homes and appliances would create additional incentives.
In so doing, not only would terrorism, global warming and oil imports be reduced, but both the federal budget and foreign trade deficits would also be lowered, and an economic stimulus would result from the race for improved fuel efficiency, as well as alternate energy forms and increased mass transportation.

VICTOR G. LIPSHUTZ
Tarrytown, N.Y., Dec. 8, 2002

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tetsu Takeda) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); TERRORISM (88%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); FUEL TAX (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); BUDGETS (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING 

PERSON: LIPSHUTZ, VICTOR G 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



327 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Seeks to Balance Budget With Tobacco Settlement Funds 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki said today that he would ask the Legislature to authorize selling bonds backed by money from the tobacco-suit settlement to close a projected $2 billion shortfall in this year's budget.
 In announcing the proposal, the governor signaled that he intends to borrow money to bail the state out of its fiscal problems rather than resort to layoffs or cuts in state aid to local schools, as other states, like Connecticut and California, have done. 
 Budget analysts immediately questioned the wisdom of floating tobacco bonds to pay for salaries and other recurring costs instead of reducing spending. Some asserted the Pataki administration had ignored clear signs that the state's finances were on shaky ground for more than a year, while he ran for re-election. 
But the governor defended the borrowing as a short-term solution to what he described as a temporary downturn in the state economy set in motion by the terrorist attack last year. He said money from tobacco bonds could be used to avoid extensive layoffs and steep service cuts as he tries to shrink the government over the next four years.
His aides said the state might not even be able to meet its obligations to provide aid to local schools in March if current trends continue, unless the tobacco bonds are approved.
Despite gloomy revenue forecasts, the governor struck the same optimistic and confident tone today that he used in his campaign.
"I would like to point out that we have dealt with very real financial crises," Mr. Pataki said, referring to 1995, when he took office. "We are good at it, and that's why I'm very confident that this is a sound approach."
Others were not so sure. Right away, the governor's proposal got a chilly reception from the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon Silver. The speaker said he would not call his chamber back into session to act on the proposal without seeing the rest of Mr. Pataki's budget plan. Opponents of smoking also cried foul, saying they were dismayed that the governor wanted to raid funds intended in part to help people addicted to cigarettes.
The proposal also put the governor on a collision course with Dennis Rivera, the powerful president of the state's largest health-care workers' union, the Service Employees International Union New York State Council.
Under current law, the $400 million that tobacco companies must pay the state each year under a court settlement is devoted to several health-care programs near and dear to members of Mr. Rivera's union, which supported Mr. Pataki in the last election. Among them are programs that provide insurance to the poor, subsidize drugs for the elderly and pay for higher salaries at nursing homes and hospitals -- all measures that benefit the union members or their families.
Mr. Pataki said today that he did not know how the state would pay for these programs once the current health-care law expires on June 30 if some of the tobacco revenue is dedicated to repaying bonds. That raised some eyebrows at Mr. Rivera's union headquarters.
"We are very concerned that there be a way to guarantee funding for these vital and important programs," said Jennifer Cunningham, the union's executive director.
The governor did not put out a detailed proposal on paper today. He said he would ask the Legislature next week for authorization in advance to sell up to $4 billion worth of bonds backed by the tobacco revenue. That is about half of the total revenue from the settlement the state expected to receive over the next 20 years, officials said.
He said he would only issue enough bonds to cover deficits in this fiscal year and the next. The amount would depend on revenue trends and other steps taken in the $89.6 billion budget to control spending, like a continued hiring freeze.
"This is simply a prudent step to be prepared," he said.
The budget director, Carole E. Stone, said the state would structure the bonds so they would be paid back over 14 to 16 years, bringing the total cost of the borrowing to $6 billion to $7 billion. The precise cost would depend on the market, she said.
The money comes from an out-of-court settlement reached in 1998 between dozens of states and the nation's largest tobacco companies. It was supposed to cover the costs of treating cigarette addicts who become ill.
So far, however, 16 states, including New Jersey, and many local governments have taken some of that money upfront by borrowing against it, rather than collecting the payments over 25 years. New York City was among the first, cashing in $700 million in 1999.
For the governor, the tobacco bonds offer a fiscal escape hatch. States around the country have been cutting back spending and raising taxes over the last two years to deal with falling revenues because of the weak economy. 
In New York, however, Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders managed to raise spending by burning up reserves the governor had saved during the boom years of the late 1990's, when the state enjoyed yearly surpluses.
In 2000, when the economy was slowing down, the governor and Legislature passed a budget that increased spending 5.8 percent above inflation. The next year, as a recession hit and the Sept. 11 terrorist attack staggered the flagging economy, they passed a budget that raised spending 5.1 percent after inflation. This year, with the economy still weak, the state enacted a 3.2 percent increase in spending, after inflation.
Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, said Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders had put off the day of fiscal reckoning for too long and now the governor was proposing a one-time infusion of money to avoid taking the necessary steps to cut the government.
"Last year's budget was really out of touch with the realities the state was facing, by raising spending as much as it did, and it sounds like they're continuing to resist coming to grips with the challenge they're facing," she said. "They've been in a hole for well over a year now, and they haven't put together a credible plan to put the state on a firm footing."
Throughout his campaign for re-election, Mr. Pataki maintained that his budget would hold together through this fiscal year, but last week he acknowledged, as he did today, that if current trends on Wall Street continue, the state faces at least a $2 billion shortfall in the fiscal year that ends on March 31.
The next fiscal year looks even worse. Mr. Pataki said today he did not know how big the gap would be, but budget analysts both inside and outside the Legislature predict it will be $8 billion to $10 billion.
Mr. Pataki said he would not release his plan for closing that gap until Feb. 1, when he unveils his executive budget. To a large degree, he has hemmed himself in politically. He has vowed not to raise taxes. Today he also said he would not cut state aid to schools in the middle of the school year, as his predecessor, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, did in 1990.
Mr. Pataki, who received widespread union support during this year's election, has also said he does not want to lay off state workers. But he suggested today he could not promise no layoffs if the Legislature did not authorize the tobacco bonds. 
"We are trying to avoid layoffs, but we are not ruling anything out," he said.
The Republicans who control the State Senate, led by Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader, are likely to pass the governor's proposal, Mr. Bruno's aides said. The governor will have a much harder time in the Democratic-controlled Assembly. 
Legislative aides said the Assembly speaker had no incentive to hand the governor blanket authority to borrow $4 billion without assurances about how the money would be spent or how the health-care programs now paid for with tobacco money would be saved.
"The speaker has very significant concerns about the future of health care in New York State under this proposal," a spokeswoman for Mr. Silver, Eileen F. Larrabee, said.
Budget officials said the borrowing would be used as part of a four-year plan while, they hope, the economy recovers. Meanwhile, they said, they will take steps to slowly diminish the size of the government.
"It creates a glide path to budget balance over a number of years," said one budget official, insisting his name not be used. "Think of it as producing an immediate reserve that we can use to ultimately bring the state back into balance."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki described his plan to issue bonds to close the state's budget gap. With him is Carole E. Stone, the budget director. (Associated Press)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SMOKING (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TOBACCO MFG (84%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); NURSING HOMES (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); AGING (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); TERRORISM (53%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; RIVERA, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



328 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Racism Up After 9/11, European Monitor Says 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Bias against Muslims and Jews in Europe has increased since the Sept. 11 attacks last year and with the subsequent escalation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the European Union's racism monitor warned today.
 "Now it seems legitimate to have anti-Muslim and anti-Semitic views on some issues," said the official, Bob Purkiss, chairman of the European Monitoring Center on Racism and Xenophobia, in delivering a report on racism in Europe to leaders of the 15-nation bloc who were gathered in Brussels. 
 Citing a danger that racism had "embedded itself" in Europe, he called on the union to deal with the social and economic factors fueling the prejudice. 
The report noted increased harassment of people who "looked Muslim," particularly women wearing head scarves, and a wave of attacks on Jews and synagogues.
That assessment was echoed in Paris, where Pierre Bedier, a junior justice minister, told the National Assembly that "recent events indicate a worrisome increase in the number of crimes inspired by anti-Semitism."
France, which has the largest Muslim and Jewish populations of any European country, has experienced the biggest wave of anti-Semitic violence over the past year, including the burning down of one synagogue in Marseille in March and the ransacking of another just days ago in southwestern France.
Today the National Assembly unanimously adopted a bill that toughens penalties against racist and anti-Semitic acts, though the legislation requires Senate approval to become law. The bill, part of a widespread anticrime initiative by the center-right government of Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, will also put greater pressure on local officials to prosecute racist and anti-Semitic attacks.
Mr. Purkiss blamed the news media and politicians for fomenting racism with inconsistent treatment of issues related to globalization, unemployment and Islam. He said mainstream European politicians had allowed far-right populist parties to push them into a negative debate on immigration.
"People are playing politics with the immigration issue rather than dealing with the real questions that need to be addressed," he said, arguing for continued immigration as a spur to economic growth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); TERRORISM (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); POLITICS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); APPROVALS (68%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%) ISLAM; JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM; TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; PURKISS, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE; ISRAEL; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



329 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
AK STEEL ENDS 3-YEAR LOCKOUT OF WORKERS AT OHIO PLANT

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 AK Steel said yesterday that it had stopped the three-year lockout of union workers at its Mansfield Works plant in Ohio, ending one of the country's longest labor disputes. "The lockout is over, and we look forward to the process of welcoming our returning work force," Richard Wardrop, chairman, president and chief of AK Steel, said in a statement. 
The company said it had notified the union representing 620 locked-out workers that it would begin a recall of hourly production and maintenance workers at the plant in Mansfield, Ohio. The workers were locked out on Sept. 1, 1999, by the plant's former owner, Armco Inc. AK Steel acquired Armco and continued to run the plant with about 250 temporary workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCKOUTS (95%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; STEEL AND IRON 

COMPANY: AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (AKS) 

TICKER: AKS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (90%) SIC3312 STEEL WORKS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



330 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
United Airlines withdraws from its campaign and says it will rely on mail and public relations.

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives 

 BODY:
UNITED AIRLINES, having run two newspaper ads nationwide in the last week to reassure customers that their travel plans would be unaffected by its financial troubles, is withdrawing from advertising in the traditional media until its new branding campaign is ready to begin sometime in the next quarter.
 United, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday, is instead planning to rely on e-mail messages and direct mail to its most loyal customers, as well as an increased emphasis on public relations. 
 Swearing off national television and print advertising, however, could prove risky, as a drumbeat of negative news could scare off customers and allow competitors a chance to poach.
United executives said its approach would be enough to get across the message that its planes would continue to fly, that tickets would be honored and that frequent-flier miles would be good. "If we need to come back and aggressively defend our position in the marketplace, we will absolutely do that," said Jerry Dow, director for worldwide marketing communications at United in Elk Grove Village, Ill. 
"There's no sense in dwelling on the realities of Chapter 11," he added. "We're ready to move on as fast as we can."
Analysts said that given the financial constraints and uncertainty over the airline's future shape, United might be playing its hand the best way it can. 
"United has to go out with a message, but they have to be careful about the way they advertise," said Henry Harteveldt, a senior analyst covering the airline and travel industries at the San Francisco office of Forrester Research. 
Overpromising, a chronic mistake in airline ads, could be more damaging now, Mr. Harteveldt said. "United has a well of good will that it can tap into," he said, citing advertising successes like the airline's "Fly the Friendly Skies" campaign of the past and the commercials after Sept. 11. "But the minute people detect United is lying to them, they will bolt."
"They can't be overly glossy, can't be doing extravaganzas," without seeming to ignore the financial problems that led to the bankruptcy filing in the first place, Mr. Harteveldt added. As a result, using the Internet, e-mail messages and direct marketing instead will be vital.
The UAL Corporation, the parent of United, spent $35.8 million advertising the airline in the media during the first half of 2002, more than the $25.8 million it spent during the period a year earlier, according to CMR, a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres. Southwest Airlines and American Airlines, whose parent is the AMR Corporation, spent more during the first half of this year, while Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines spent less.
"All the airlines have cut back on advertising this year," said Ray L. Neidl, an airlines analyst at Blaylock & Partners in New York. "A few years ago you'd open the paper and see big pictures of airplanes" everywhere in ads, he said. 
Now, the difficult business environment and the increasing use of e-mail messages to communicate with frequent fliers means that airlines promote themselves differently.
The shift does not mean that United should let red ink and negative press make its situation even worse, Mr. Neidl said. "If they start losing bookings because of the bankruptcy, that will accelerate the problem," he said. "That would require additional advertising." 
David Sigel, group account director at Fallon Worldwide in Minneapolis, United's worldwide agency, part of the Publicis Groupe, said: "We want to be careful not to change the subject. It's very obvious to anybody who flies or considers United that it's going through the situation that it is," and addressing that situation for consumers is a prerequisite of any later marketing.
"There could be future ads" like those yesterday, Mr. Sigel said, but only when there is news to deliver. The text of yesterday's ads, for example, noted that United was ranked first among major airlines for on-time arrival in two of the last four months reported. United had previously never ranked first in the rankings' 13-year history, so the improvement merited a mention. "If there's nothing new to say, we'll probably save our powder," he said.
United has also hired Gavin Anderson & Company, a public relations consulting firm with experience in crisis management.
United's approach is similar to the one taken by US Airways after it filed for bankruptcy protection on Aug. 11. "We communicated with our customers quickly following our filing," said David Castelveter, a spokesman for US Airways. 
It also used its Web site, e-mail messages and direct mail to get out its message that customers need not worry. "We felt that we had adequate coverage" without a television or branding campaign, he said.
Both US Airways and United could also benefit from a public that attaches less of a stigma to companies operating under bankruptcy protection.
"People have become more used to flying on bankrupt airlines these days," said Betsy Snyder, director at Standard & Poor's in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); AIRLINES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); CORPORATE POSITIONING (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); BRANDING (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ADVERTISING; BANKRUPTCIES; ELECTRONIC MAIL; PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (83%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (50%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (50%); BLAYLOCK & PARTNERS LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (83%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); LUV (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: IVES, NAT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



331 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: More Museums for New York, Despite Poor Economy 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
Two new museums with a combined construction cost of nearly $100 million -- one devoted to contemporary art and one to art of the Himalayas -- are in the works for Manhattan, despite a tight economy that has forced cutbacks at other cultural organizations.
 The Rubin Museum of Art, devoted primarily to Himalayan and Tibetan painting, is currently being developed in the former Barneys store at Seventh Avenue and West 17th Street in Chelsea. Its $60 million, 70,000-square-foot space, designed by Beyer Blinder Belle, is to open in 2004. 
 The New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo, the quarter-century-old bastion of cutting-edge art, is planning to build a new $35-million, 60,000-square-foot home along a motley stretch of the Bowery, at Prince Street, by 2005. 
In addition the Jewish Children's Museum is planned for the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, and the Brooklyn Children's Museum, also in Crown Heights, has begun a $39-million expansion that will double its size.
These projects come at a time when cultural organizations like the Guggenheim Museum are retrenching, and others are paring their operations to weather New York City's budget cuts.
"It's very exciting that we have this crop under way, given how tough the climate is," said Kate D. Levin, the city's commissioner of cultural affairs. "You've got a bunch of organizations that have reached a level of curatorial maturity."
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, said it was important for cultural institutions to press ahead with building or expansion even when the economic picture was bleak. "If you go back and look at the great public works in our nation's history, they often happened in very difficult times," she said. "Franklin Delano Roosevelt built the National Gallery in the Depression. You've got to have more of a vision."
The New Museum's new location, a parking lot at 235 Bowery, is only a few blocks from its current 30,000-square-foot home, but in neighborhood terms, it is a world away. Now surrounded by upscale stores like A/X Armani Exchange and Dean & Deluca, the museum in its new location will be surrounded by restaurant-supply stores and be two doors from the Bowery Mission, which serves 500 meals daily to the homeless.
"It would be disingenuous if I said I was not nervous," said Saul Dennison, president of the museum's board. "But based on a number of things, I feel pretty confident."
That confidence is based largely on the expected sale (still being negotiated) of the current site, which has increased in value over the museum's 20 years there, and by the rapidly shifting fortunes of the Bowery. Although the New Museum, which will sit between Rivington and Stanton Streets, would be the first major arts organization on the city's historic Skid Row, several new bars have recently opened along the wide boulevard, and Prince Street, which begins at the Bowery where the museum will be, is part of the chic neighborhood known as NoLIta (North of Little Italy), which has several restaurants and shops. Many artists have settled in lofts on or near the Bowery. 
"We recognize the potential of the area," said Lisa Phillips, the museum's director. "It could be a bridge instead of a barrier between everything that goes on in SoHo and the Lower East Side."
The two museums in Brooklyn have already received funds from the city, Ms. Levin said: the Brooklyn Children's Museum, $25 million, and the Jewish Children's Museum, $9.3 million.
The Rubin Museum is being supported largely by the Rubin Cultural Trust, set up by Donald Rubin, who owns a managed-care company, and his wife, Shelley. Organizers say they hope the museum, which will include art from the Rubins' personal collection, as well as pieces donated and lent by other collectors and institutions, will become one of the major centers of Asian art in the West.
The Brooklyn Children's Museum expansion, which will add 50,000 square feet to the building's current 51,000 by 2006, was designed by Rafael Vinoly, who also designed the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia and the forthcoming Frederick P. Rose Hall for Jazz in the AOL Time Warner Building at Lincoln Center. 
Carol Enseki, president of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, at 145 Brooklyn Avenue, said the expansion, which will use solar energy and be painted daffodil yellow, would allow for expanded cultural and educational programs. "Families with limited leisure time were looking for high-quality activities to do with their kids," she said. 
The Jewish Children's Museum, to open in September at 332 Kingston Avenue, is a multimedia institution that will serve both as a museum and as a community center. It was designed by Gwathmey Siegel & Associates Architects, known for their work on the additions to the original Guggenheim Museum and the Fogg Museum at Harvard University. 
Created by Tzivos Hashem, an international nonprofit children's organization, this 50,000-square-foot project seeks to promote Jewish culture and history through hands-on instruction and interaction.
"I hope it will give people a better appreciation of what Jewish culture is about," said Rabbi Sholom Ber Baumgarten, the museum's director.
Alan J. Gerson, a councilman who represents parts of Lower Manhattan, said the New Museum plan was particularly significant in the aftermath of last year's terrorist attacks. "This is one of the first significant steps in the cultural revitalization of Lower Manhattan," he said.
Ms. Phillips, the New Museum's director, said that the institution was committed to remaining downtown, particularly after the attacks, and that she hoped to create a high-profile destination for contemporary art. 
"The most important thing is that the building itself announces that it is a museum, has a strong identity as a museum and serves as a beacon for contemporary art," she said.
An architect is expected to be named within a year. The New Museum, which has an annual operating budget of more than $5 million, plans to raise additional money for the project through a $12-million capital campaign and a bond offering.
Museum officials also hope to get some government funds. In addition to critically acclaimed shows like its current Carroll Dunham retrospective, the museum has a popular bookstore that includes volumes on photography, design and architecture.
When the New Museum first moved to Lower Broadway in 1983 from a small gallery at the New School for Social Research (now the New School University), the neighborhood was one that people tended to avoid. "It was really desolate, all sweatshops," Ms. Phillips said. "The museum's presence helped change what Broadway is."
Ed Morgan, president of the 93-year-old Bowery Mission, predicted the museum would make a significant impact on the Bowery as well. "I think it will start to bring 24-hour vitality to the district," he said. "It will put it more on the map as a destination."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Renderings of projects for Crown Heights, Brooklyn: top, the expanded Brooklyn Children's Museum; below, the Jewish Children's Museum. (Rafael Vinoly Architects); (Jock Pottle/Esto)(pg. E8) Map of Manhattan shows surrounding area: One museum is to be built in Chelsea; another will help transform the Bowery. (pg. E1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); PAINTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RETAILERS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) MUSEUMS; ART 

COMPANY: BEYER BLINDER BELLE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NYC); JEWISH CHILDREN'S MUSEUM (NYC); BROOKLYN CHILDREN'S MUSEUM (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); HIMALAYAS (73%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (73%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



332 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
A Shoe Rivalry Extends to Oregon Office Sites

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
On the sprawling Nike campus just outside of town, company officials recently watched Tiger Woods hit golf balls across a green the size of a football field. He narrowly weaved the balls around the glass entrance of a new building bearing his name that is part of an expansion that adds more than a million square feet of office space at the 120-acre campus.
 A golfer would need Mr. Woods's accuracy with a putter instead of an iron at the 12-acre complex that Nike's rival Adidas is completing in a residential and industrial area of the city. 
 The Portland developer James H. Winkler is putting the finishing touches on the Adidas headquarters, which he has converted from a 220,000-square-foot hospital complex into a high-technology, design-conscious and pedestrian-oriented office for Adidas America, a subsidiary of the German maker of sneakers and athletic apparel. 
This is not the kind of sprawling suburban campus of companies like Microsoft, Intel, Dell and Hewlett-Packard, and it is also not the usual environs of a design and marketing company. This complex has outdoor playing fields, a sky bridge and five buildings, including an 836-space semisubterranean parking garage. It has more than 300,000 square feet of commercial space in 12 acres, with its entrance spilling out into a hillside neighborhood.
As exploratory demolition began two and a half years ago, Mr. Winkler sold the property to Adidas for $13.8 million and became a fee developer, calculating that any effort to retain control as the landlord on the intricately specialized finished product would leave him perilously beholden to Adidas. "Any entrepreneur hates to sell their toys," he said in an interview. Still, "there are not a lot of folks who would want a soccer field on top of a parking garage."
Actually, this county already accommodates a corporate headquarters with a soccer field, but Adidas officials strenuously object to the inevitable comparisons to the Nike campus.
Adidas officials stress that their headquarters should not be referred to as a campus, an oblique reference to directions by Philip H. Knight, the chairman of Nike, to his developers, whom he took to Stanford and other universities for inspiration. 
Adidas executives stress that their headquarters are open to pedestrians, while the Nike campus is behind an earthen berm embossed with the corporate logo. The Adidas officials boast of their location within the city limits and their proximity to Portland's central business district.
"It certainly wasn't done as 'let's be opposite,' " said Paul R. Ehrlich, general counsel for Adidas America. Still, he said, "the fact that we wanted to be open, not surrounded by a berm, was conscious."
Indeed, the miniature soccer pitch at Adidas directly abuts a cluster of modest one- and two-story houses built in the years leading up to World War II for workers in the sprawling distribution centers of Swan Island, in the part of the Willamette River that runs past this stretch of north Portland. 
Exactly how open the so-called village should be to its neighbors is unresolved. The doors to the buildings are locked, and employees are still figuring out how, mechanically speaking, to grant entry to visitors. Security guards patrol the complex, and the fields are open for use only to neighbors who schedule a kickoff time and sign a waiver of liability.
Exiting a garage elevator, employees face the neighbors each day as they arrive at work. Security call boxes are prevalent. The workers cross over the busy thoroughfare of North Greeley Avenue on an elevated bridge overlooking the river.
The company's choice of this site was something of a relief for the city.
"We've got only one Fortune 500 company left here, and that's Nike, and they're not even in Portland," said Terry Shanley, managing director of the Portland office of the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield. Another athletic apparel company, Columbia Sportswear, wanted to move into two sites downtown a few years ago, but it was outbid by the county on the first site and unable to secure permits on a second location, so it moved to the suburbs.
"It caused public furor, and the permitting system has radically changed," said Randolph L. Miller, chairman of the Ambassador Program, an economic development group.
The city expedited around 100 permits for Adidas to refit its site, which is on a hillside with a 40-foot grade, abuts a neighborhood and straddles a street, as well as adjoins a public park, is partly inaccessible to handicapped people and does not comply with standards for earthquake resistance. Adidas spent $80.4 million on design, development and construction. The company, whose 600 employees were at the time scattered in nine buildings around Portland, started the renovation process on the hospital's buldings, which were built in the 1950's in the International style.
After allowing charity groups to strip out a bounty of plumbing, including 600 toilets, Adidas removed a loading dock building and one level of the sky bridge to create a plaza. Discovering asbestos behind parts of a facade, Adidas abandoned a plan to change only the glass and instead created a curtain wall. The new exteriors bear colors of the Olympic rings in rotating panels around geometrically patterned windows.
Inside, track lighting and cable trays are exposed on the ceiling above workers in semi-enclosed cubicles with signs promoting a research presentation called "What's New With Teens?" There are open sewing rooms for the manufacture of prototypes (another zoning variance), a graded oval staircase for walkers, a restaurant with decor that echoes the Olympic ring colors outside and a climate-controlled room with redundant fire control systems where dozens of mainframes make a low, dull noise.
Before deciding to buy the property, Adidas discussed rents of $25 or $26 a square foot annually with Mr. Winkler, according to the company. Average annual asking rents for office space in the central business district of Portland are $25.37 a square foot, compared with $24.94 a year ago, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
Mr. Ehrlich of Adidas said that the company benefited from having its employees in one spot and that the location near downtown Portland assists in retaining workers, whose average age is 26. He added that the buildings help the company visually express that it is part of the Portland community. He said, however, that he did not expect other companies to imitate the project.
"Some companies, and again not speaking of our competitor, like to have their own little world," Mr. Ehrlich said.
Robert L. Thompson, the architect for the 1.5-million-square-foot Nike campus in 1989 and its 1.2 million-square-foot expansion in 2000, took issue with any assertion by Adidas that its complex makes it part of the Portland civic fabric, noting that getting there from downtown requires a drive.
"Adidas's approach is to market themselves as a development that's part of downtown and involved in the community," Mr. Thompson said. "The reality is that they just happened to get an old hospital for a very good price."
Nelson Farris, a spokesman for Nike, said his company's campus, by dint of its suburban location and sealed-off design, had an added real estate advantage that sends a clear message to outsiders. 
"They get a sense that it's a world headquarters, a place to do business," Mr. Farris said. "And assuming that we did outgrow it, we could move out and somebody like Intel could move in."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adidas employees, above, work in five buildings on 12 acres in Portland, Ore. A Nike worker and his daughter jog on a trail in a Japanese-style garden on the campus in Beaverton, Ore., just outside Portland. (Shane Young for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate through October. Graph tracks contracts (regionally in billions) from 2000-2002 for the South, West, Midwest, and Northeast. NATIONAL IN BILLIONSOCT. 01: $217.0AUG. 02: 247.6SEPT. 02: 256.6OCT 02: 258.7 (Source: F. W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GOLF (90%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ATHLETES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (68%); LAWYERS (50%) SHOES AND BOOTS; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: ADIDAS AG (95%); NIKE INC (76%); ADIDAS AMERICA INC (57%); INTEL CORP (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ADIDAS AMERICA INC; NIKE INC 

TICKER: ADS (FRA) (95%); NKE (NYSE) (76%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (95%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (95%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (76%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (76%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (76%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (76%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (76%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (76%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%) SIC3149 OTHER FOOTWEAR EX. RUBBER; 

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (88%) BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (95%) OREGON, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) PORTLAND (ORE)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



333 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Bribery Inquiry Involves Kazakh Chief, and He's Unhappy 

BYLINE:  By JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors have said that President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan accepted large bribes in connection with dispensing his country's oil concessions during the 1990's, and later tried to obstruct the federal inquiry into the payments, which came from American oil companies, according to legal documents. 
 The allegations were made by the Justice Department in a sealed motion and described recently in a letter of complaint from Kazakhstan's lawyers to the deputy attorney general. The letter was part of a quiet effort to exempt Mr. Nazarbayev from prosecution. 
 Mr. Nazarbayev and his representatives have raised the issue with Vice President Dick Cheney and other senior officials several times, but the effort to curb the investigation has been unsuccessful, according to court records and officials of both governments. Administration officials said Washington had rebuffed the Kazakhs' efforts.
Relations between the United States and Kazakhstan have hit a rough patch. Though military cooperation has expanded as part of the campaign against terrorism, senior Bush administration officials have expressed concern over Kazakhstan's treatment of political opponents, journalists and American oil companies.
Last month, Deputy Commerce Secretary Samuel Bodman said Kazakhstan's path toward market-based economic reform had moved in a "worrisome direction." Mr. Bodman, who cited disagreements over oil-industry contracts, was trying to resolve a new dispute involving Kazakhstan's interpretation of a 1993 oil contract that involved ChevronTexaco and ExxonMobil.
Kazakhstan is a crucial part of the administration's strategy to reduce dependence on Persian Gulf oil and to stem Islamic militancy in Central Asia. But the corruption inquiry and its fallout illustrate the diplomatic and economic difficulties that can arise in a quest for energy security.
Reid H. Weingarten, a Washington attorney for Kazakhstan, touched on the problem in a lengthy letter he sent in September to Deputy Attorney General Larry D. Thompson, asking him to intervene.
"I am deeply concerned that foreign relations between the United States and the Republic of Kazakhstan -- an important ally in the war on terrorism with significant oil and gas reserves in an unstable geographical region -- will deteriorate if prosecutors maintain their pursuit of the documents in Kazakhstan and continue to aggressively investigate Kazakh government officials," Mr. Weingarten wrote.
The letter, a copy of which was provided to The New York Times by another lawyer who is not involved in the investigation, said Kazakhstan was prepared to cooperate, but in return wanted "a formal assurance that President Nazarbayev will not be indicted."
The broad outline of the federal grand jury investigation has been known for some time, based on court records and interviews with officials in both countries: tens of millions of dollars in payments to Kazakhstan by American oil companies in the 1990's wound up in Swiss bank accounts that are thought to have benefited top Kazakh officials, including President Nazarbayev.
The companies, including the Mobil Corporation, now part of ExxonMobil; Amoco, now part of BP; and Phillips Petroleum, now part of ConocoPhillips, have denied any wrongdoing and say all their payments were made directly to the Kazakh government.
James H. Giffen, an American businessman who advised American companies doing business in Kazakhstan before becoming a counselor to Mr. Nazarbayev, has also denied any wrongdoing. American and Swiss investigators have said Mr. Giffen and his company, the Mercator Corporation, are under investigation for possible violations of American laws, including a prohibition against bribing foreign officials.
Mr. Weingarten's nine-page letter provided new details of the investigation. He recounted a motion filed under seal by prosecutors in May in which they asked a judge to order Mr. Giffen and Mercator to turn over documents for the investigation.
The government motion stated that "President Nazarbayev has received enormous bribes and personally obstructed the prosecutors' investigation," Mr. Weingarten wrote. Specifically, the prosecutors "accused President Nazarbayev of personally directing the Kazakh minister of justice to manufacture a claim of executive privilege over Mr. Giffen's official actions in an effort to obstruct" the investigation, he wrote.
Bryan Sierra, a Justice Department spokesman, said the department would not comment on the letter on the investigation, which is continuing. Mr. Nazarbayev has declined to respond to written questions from a reporter. Mr. Weingarten declined to discuss the letter.
Mercator has turned over 300,000 pages of documents to prosecutors. But lawyers for Mr. Giffen and the Kazakh government have tried to block efforts by prosecutors to obtain thousands more pages detailing the oil-related negotiations and transactions. They argued that the records are protected by Kazakhstan's sovereign immunity.
But last September, Judge Denny Chin of the federal court in Manhattan ruled that the additional documents must be turned over, though the public order did not identify the country or the source of the bribes.
"The republic's interest in protecting governmental confidentiality is strong," Judge Chin wrote, but he added, "A foreign government that is alleged to be a recipient of bribes from an American corporation cannot be permitted to bring a grand jury investigation to a halt."
The judge wrote that the foreign government had told Mr. Giffen, who is identified as John Doe in the ruling, that his information is protected by the "sovereign rights of the republic" -- Kazakhstan -- and that he could face prison if he turned over the documents. The judge also noted that the foreign government had tried to persuade the United States to stop the investigation.
Kazakhstan has also been trying to recover more than $80 million frozen in a Swiss bank account that Mr. Weingarten says belongs to the Kazakh government. Swiss officials say they have frozen more than $120 million at the urging of American investigators. American and Swiss investigators have said in court filings that bank accounts were set up for the personal benefit of top Kazakh officials and their families, including President Nazarbayev.
The issue of the frozen accounts was raised by two of Mr. Nazarbayev's top aides when they spoke with Vice President Cheney in October 2001, according to American and Kazakh officials. The aides also firmed up a White House visit for Mr. Nazarbayev with President Bush, which took place two months later.
Mr. Cheney was in a secure location because of terrorist threats, so he talked with the Kazakh officials via a video connection, officials said. The most vexing subject was the Kazakh concern about the Justice Department inquiry and the frozen funds, officials on both sides said.
After the video meeting, an aide to Mr. Cheney and Elizabeth Jones, the assistant secretary of state who oversees Kazakhstan, both made queries to the Justice Department about the investigation, officials said. When Mr. Nazarbayev came to see Mr. Bush several weeks later, his aides were told there was nothing the administration could do about the investigation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Development of the Karachaganak oil field in northwestern Kazakhstan figures in Washington's plans to reduce dependence on Persian Gulf oil. (Reuters); President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan. An investigation by federal prosecutors into allegations of bribery by American oil companies has now touched him, and his aides are trying to halt the inquiry. (Getty Images) Map of Mideast highlighting Kazakhstan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); BRIBERY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); TERRORISM (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); WRITERS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RELIGION (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BRIBERY 

COMPANY: MOBIL CORP (60%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); CHEVRON CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (54%); CVX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (58%) GERTH, JEFF; NAZARBAYEV, NURSULTAN (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); KAZAKHSTAN (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) KAZAKHSTAN

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



334 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan May Consider Early Election 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The administration of President Hugo Chavez has for the first time expressed a willingness to discuss a timetable for an early presidential election, government allies said today, as an increasingly punishing antigovernment strike went on for a ninth day.
 But opposition leaders, doubtful of the government's sincerity and enraged by what they view as the government's strong-arm tactics, said they instead called for the left-leaning president to resign. 
 Those close to Mr. Chavez said he would not, leaving the country in a stalemate that negotiations mediated by the Organization of American States have been unable to break. 
Concerned about "a deteriorating political and security situation," the State Department today offered free flights home for United States Embassy dependents and some nonessential staff members, and advised Americans to consider leaving Venezuela or putting off travel here.
The developments came as jittery Venezuelans gathered in long lines today to withdraw money from banks that on Monday joined the national strike, which is intended to weaken Mr. Chavez's four-year-old government. The oil industry, lifeblood of the economy and supplier of petroleum to the United States, continued to founder, with exports largely frozen.
Eight of the 20 members of Venezuela's Supreme Court said they were suspending their own work except in the most urgent of cases, citing political manipulation by the National Assembly. The assembly, where a slight majority is allied with the president, decided last week to fire the court's vice president, arguing that he did not have the necessary qualifications.
Anti-Chavez leaders today decried what they called government-coordinated attacks on the news media. On Monday night several pro-Chavez demonstrators protested outside private television stations, all of which are ferociously anti-Chavez, ransacking the newsroom of one of them.
The United States and other countries, worried about the increasing tensions and potential for violence, have called on the two sides to find a negotiated electoral solution to the turmoil. "The failure to do so has grave and drastic consequences," an American diplomat said.
Some diplomats are pressing the government to open the way for a change in the Constitution to allow early elections, as opponents demanded. Nicolas Maduro, a congressman who represents the government in talks with the opposition, said that in formal talks on Monday, the government expressed a willingness to discuss a timetable for elections.
But the opposition has hardened its stance, particularly since a gunman killed three people at an antigovernment rally on Friday. The gunman appeared to be deranged, but opposition leaders have blamed Mr. Chavez for the attack.
"The country demands the resignation of Chavez, or that early elections be staged in the first quarter of 2003," said Manuel Cova, a union leader who has negotiated for the opposition.
Ricardo Gutierrez, a pro-Chavez legislator who has met with the president to discuss the crisis, replied, "We cannot negotiate with them when we have a gun to our head." 
A proposal by Rafael Simon Jimenez, the first vice president of the National Assembly, to introduce an amendment to change the Constitution to allow an early election was thwarted today when opposition legislators boycotted deliberations.
"This is the ideal way," Mr. Jimenez said of his proposal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); DISMISSALS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; STRIKES; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; BANKS AND BANKING; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%) STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



335 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Disco Dick Cheney 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Some hush-hush bang-bang is going on at the vice president's house: big blasts twice a day, morning and night, that cause the whole neighborhood to quake and shake.
 Rattled neighbors cannot learn what's going on at Mr. Cheney's Disclosed Location from the Navy, which maintains the official residence on the grounds of the Naval Observatory. 
 "We're doing infrastructure improvements and utility upgrades," says the Navy's Cate Mueller. 
If Dick Cheney won't tell us which energy fat cats drew up our energy policy, he's not going to tell us why we're paying to renovate his pad.
The construction, which could last 16 months, is related to "national security and homeland defense," according to a letter from the observatory's superintendent printed in The Washington Post.
I'd say we have four possibilities:
1. Mr. Cheney is building a giant vault. Now that a judge appointed by the president says that anything the vice president does can be kept secret, there is even more incentive for him to run the government so everything can be secret and stored away in the vault.
2. He's suffering from a bad case of bunker envy and wants a command center and bunker like the president's in the White House and Rummy's in the Pentagon.
3. He's digging a tunnel in case he has his priorities backward and we should be more concerned with Al Qaeda than Iraq. A secret tunnel at his house could easily feed into the secret tunnel at the nearby Russian Embassy leading up to a safe house; the tunnel was built in the late 1970's by the F.B.I. and National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Russian diplomats, and abandoned after the Russians found out about it from the F.B.I. counterspy Robert Hanssen.
4. He's constructing an underground disco. If he appears in a Travolta white suit and gold chains, his desire to replicate the Gerald Ford era would be realized.
It's a mystery why President Bush doesn't want to stock his cabinet with his contemporaries from Yale, Harvard and Texas, rather than retreads from the wilted salad days when Cheney and Rummy were ruling the Ford White House.
On Monday Mr. Bush again heeded Mr. Cheney and chose a Ford official to be Treasury secretary (replacing the Ford official who was just fired from the job) to work with the Ford official who is Fed chairman.
Yesterday he chose an old Ford hand as head of the S.E.C. And we have the recrudescence of the secretary of state under Ford and Nixon, Henry Kissinger.
Ford was the Fillmore of our time. His administration was famous for its hapless economic policy, fighting inflation with marketing, passing out those silly little buttons that read WIN (Whip Inflation Now). What do we remember of that era except the pardoning of Nixon, the fall of Saigon and the falls of Chevy Chase?
The lasting mark of that White House was tamping down the post-Watergate zeal for truth, containing Congressional and media investigations into C.I.A. abuses such as assassinations of foreign leaders and F.B.I. overreaching on infiltrating civil rights groups.
It was in that battle that the Ford alumni -- Rummy, Cheney & Kissy -- forged their worldview that the greatest threat to the country was the prying eyes of the public, the press and Congress.
Trent Lott may want to turn the clock back to Jim Crow. Mr. Cheney just wants to go back to a time before Vietnam and Watergate, when there was more government secrecy and less moral relativism.
The administration is chockablock with people who kept the public and Congress in the dark on foreign intrigue. Adm. John Poindexter, who took the fall for Iran-contra, is now in charge of expanding the universe of secrets to include dossiers at the Pentagon on every living American, under the Orwellian heading of Office of Information Awareness.
Elliott Abrams, who misled Congress on Iran-contra and was pardoned by the first President Bush, is in charge of the Middle East for the second President Bush. Otto Reich, who worked with Ollie North and ran the covert program to get public support for the contras, now runs Latin American policy.
Maybe instead of worrying about American children who don't do history lessons, we should worry about American presidents who don't care about the lessons of history. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ESPIONAGE (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); POLITICS (73%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUDGES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); DISMISSALS (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) DOWD, MAUREEN; FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



336 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Next House Democrat Whip Criticizes Past Leadership 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
As House Democrats struggled to assemble an economic plan that might stand up to the Bush administration's, the chamber's second-ranking Democrat criticized his party today as failing to challenge the Republican plan aggressively for the last two years.
 No House Democrat believes that the caucus clearly defined its economic agenda in the last Congress, said the Democratic leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, who will be his party's whip starting next month. 
 "If you ask the average American what the Democratic alternative has been, they would say at best it has been muddled," Mr. Hoyer said. "At worst, we didn't even have one. It's time we went on the offense to offer our solutions, our alternatives." 
Mr. Hoyer is the first high-ranking Democrat to question explicitly the performance of his caucus in the last Congress, and he vowed that his party's new leadership in the House would now be far more aggressive in challenging the tax-cut plan expected soon from the White House.
He said he was not being specifically critical of Representative Richard A. Gephardt, who is stepping down as House Democratic leader; but he said Mr. Gephardt faced an impossible task in expressing differences with President Bush on economic issues while presenting a united front on security matters.
Those days are over, Mr. Hoyer said. Now that the Department of Homeland Security has been created and Congress has supported the administration on the issue of invading Iraq, he said, the Democrats are free to mount the vigorous attack on the Bush economic plan that was impossible before.
But it was far from clear that the Democrats, who held a closed meeting today in the Capitol to plot their economic strategy, would be able to achieve the coherent plan that eluded them in the first half of Mr. Bush's term. While Mr. Hoyer knows what he wants -- tax cuts only for the middle class, new investment accounts that would encourage saving, a possible cut in the payroll tax -- the Democrats did not announce a stimulus plan today, and disagreements with the president are likely to encounter skepticism among more conservative Senate Democrats.
Fifteen Democrats in the Senate voted last year for the 10-year, $1.3 trillion tax cut championed by the president, even as Senate Democratic leaders warned that it would drive up the deficit. On Monday, Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, praised the diversity within his caucus as one of its strengths, saying that while he believed that the Senate and House would largely agree on an economic plan, "it may not be to a T the same on both sides."
Diversity, however, may be the last thing Democrats need in the face of a largely monolithic Republican bloc behind the administration. Erik Smith, a spokesman for Mr. Gephardt, said a lack of coordination within the party gave the impression that Democrats were not sufficiently aggressive in the last term.
"Democrats did talk about the economy," Mr. Smith said. "Mr. Gephardt outlined ambitious plans for promoting economic growth, but the problem was one of coordination with other Democrats. It's hard enough to unite our party behind a single idea when we have the White House; it's acutely difficult when we don't."
In October, Mr. Gephardt proposed a plan that would cut taxes by $75 billion for working families while raising the minimum wage and spending $125 billion to create jobs. But the plan drew only lukewarm support among Senate Democrats and was quickly overshadowed in the midterm election campaign by the Republican focus on domestic security.
Mr. Hoyer, asked why the Democrats could not make their voices heard in the last term, had a simple answer.
"9/11. 9/11. 9/11. 9/11," he said. "When you have to stand shoulder-to-shoulder and march in lock step with the president on security issues, it's hard to stand apart on the economy. Dick Gephardt is very aggressive, but 9/11 made it very difficult for him. I know he was frustrated in his efforts."
The two-day economic meeting that ended today drew about 150 House Democrats who heard presentations on the economy and weighed various policy proposals. Emerging from the meeting this afternoon, Democratic leaders were specific only in criticizing the administration's policies and saying they had been vindicated by President Bush's dismissal of his economic team last week.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the new Democratic leader, said it would take several more meetings before the caucus made up its mind on a final economic proposal.
Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the new assistant minority leader, said the Democrats would definitely propose some kind of stimulus package but had not yet agreed on which plan would create the most jobs.
At this point, Mr. Spratt said, Democrats have only agreed that unemployment benefits should be extended for 800,000 jobless workers past Dec. 28, a proposal that Republicans rejected last month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Steny H. Hoyer, a high-ranking Democratic critic. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); CONSERVATISM (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); CORPORATE TAX (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; HOYER, STENY (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



337 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: 'As a Citizen of a Troubled World' 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: OSLO, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Nobel Lecture, delivered today by former President Jimmy Carter, as transcribed by The New York Times: 
 The world has changed greatly since I left the White House. 
 Now there is only one superpower, with unprecedented military and economic strength. The coming budget for American armaments will be greater than those of the next 15 nations combined, and there are troops from the United States in many countries throughout the world. Our gross national economy exceeds that of the three countries that follow us, and our nation's voice most often prevails as decisions are made concerning trade, humanitarian assistance and the allocation of global wealth. 
This dominant status is unlikely to change in our lifetimes.
Great American power and responsibility are not unprecedented, and have been used with restraint and widespread benefit in the past. . . . 
Twelve years ago, President Mikhail Gorbachev received your recognition for his pre-eminent role in ending the cold war that had lasted 50 years. But instead of entering a millennium of peace, the world is now, in many ways, a more dangerous place. 
The greater ease of travel and communication has not been matched by equal understanding and mutual respect. There is a plethora of civil wars, unrestrained by rules of the Geneva Convention, within which an overwhelming portion of the casualties are unarmed civilians who have no ability to defend themselves. And recent appalling acts of terrorism have reminded us that no nations, even superpowers, are invulnerable.
It is clear that global challenges must be met by an emphasis on peace, in harmony with others, with strong alliances and international consensus. Imperfect as it may be, there is no doubt that this can best be done through the United Nations. . . . 
For powerful countries to adopt a principle of preventive war may well set an example that can have catastrophic consequences.
If we accept the premise that the United Nations is the best avenue for the maintenance of peace, then the carefully considered decisions of the U.N. Security Council must be enforced. All too often, the alternative has proven to be uncontrollable violence and expanding spheres of hostility.
The most vivid example is that, for more than half a century, following the founding of the State of Israel in 1948, the Middle East conflict has been a source of worldwide tension and conflict itself. . . . 
Perhaps of more immediate concern is the necessity for Iraq to comply fully with the unanimous decision of the Security Council that it eliminate all weapons of mass destruction and permit unimpeded access by inspectors to confirm that this commitment has been honored. The world insists that this be done. 
I am not here as a public official, but as a citizen of a troubled world who finds hope in a growing consensus that the generally accepted goals of society are peace, freedom, human rights, environmental quality, the alleviation of suffering and the rule of law. During the past decades the international community, usually under the auspices of the United Nations, has struggled to negotiate global agreements that can help us achieve these essential goals. 
They include the abolition of land mines and chemical weapons; an end to the testing, proliferation and further deployment of nuclear warheads; constraints on global warming; prohibition of the death penalty, at least for children; and an international criminal court to deter and to punish war crimes and genocide.
Those agreements already adopted must be fully implemented, and others should be pursued aggressively.
We must also strive to correct the injustice of economic sanctions that seek to penalize abusive leaders but all too often inflict punishment on those who are already suffering from the abuse. . . . 
War may sometimes be a necessary evil. But no matter how necessary, it is always evil, never a good. We will not learn how to live together in peace by killing each other's children.
The bond of our common humanity is stronger than the divisiveness of our fears and prejudices. God gives us a capacity for choice. We can choose to alleviate suffering. We can choose to work together for peace. We can make these changes --and we must. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); CIVIL WAR (77%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) NOBEL PRIZES 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (88%) CARTER, JIMMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



338 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Bear, Stearns Threatens Again to Leave City and Seeks Third Set of Deals to Stay 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
For the third time in a decade, Bear, Stearns & Company is demanding tens of millions of dollars in tax breaks and other subsidies from the city.
 The investment bank has threatened to move as many of 1,000 employees now at the MetroTech office complex in Brooklyn to Jersey City or Whippany, N.J., according to city officials and real estate executives. 
 In what has become a familiar bargaining pattern by many of the city's largest corporations, Bear, Stearns has said it would keep the employees in New York if the city provided it with a generous subsidy to move from Brooklyn to Lower Manhattan. 
Harvey Robins, a former city director of operations, said: "In the city's hour of need, Bear, Stearns is asking New York for yet another corporate handout." He added, "We become a smaller city when the financial and real estate industries see municipal government as a cash cow for their private purposes." 
Since the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, city and state officials have tried to stabilize the downtown business district and stem corporate flight by giving special tax breaks and cash grants to companies.
In this case, city officials say Bear, Stearns is trying to renege on its commitments. 
"We expect them to live up to the commitments they've made with the city through two prior agreements," Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said yesterday.
"We have complied and intend to fully live up to our existing deal with New York City," said Russell Sherman, a spokesman for Bear, Stearns. "As for MetroTech, we're exploring all of our options."
In 1991, Mayor David N. Dinkins granted Bear, Stearns a package of more than $37 million after the company threatened to move employees to Whippany. Bear, Stearns then moved 1,500 employees to MetroTech.
In 1997, a new mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, granted Bear, Stearns an expanded $75 million benefit package. The bank promised to build a new headquarters on Madison Avenue, keep at least 5,700 employees in New York City for the next 50 years and create at least 13,300 new jobs over the term of the deal. Bear Stearns was one of 50 companies, including The New York Times, to get a benefits package from the Giuliani administration.
When the 1997 deal was arranged, James E. Cayne, now chairman and chief executive of Bear, Stearns, said at a City Hall news conference, "We are very excited about our new location and look forward to continued growth in New York City." 
Yesterday, executives at Bear Stearns, which has over 6,000 employees in New York City, said their plans would not violate any agreements with the city. They said their lease in Brooklyn expires in 2004.
For some city officials, the current negotiations with Bear, Stearns were a painful reminder of a bad deal from the Giuliani era. 
"It's the stupidest deal we ever did," one official said, "and now they're back asking for more."
The 1997 deal may have been unnecessary, he said, because the Dinkins administration had already saved the jobs at Bear, Stearns in a 12-year deal. In June 1991, the city provided the investment bank with sales tax exemptions, property tax abatements, low-cost electricity and other subsidies.
Six years later, the Giuliani administration signed its Bear, Stearns deal after a very cursory discussion at Shea Stadium the day before the City Hall news conference on Aug. 27, according to current and former Bear, Stearns executives and city officials.
Some city officials said a factor in the deal was the close relationship between Fred Wilpon, a Bear, Stearns director and the owner of the Mets, and Randy Levine, then the deputy mayor for economic development. Mr. Levine, the former labor negotiator for Major League Baseball, was still a baseball consultant while he was at City Hall. The city's negotiator was Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
"Randy was in his office, and before anything was agreed upon, Millard talked to him," said a Bear, Stearns executive who was involved in the talks.
Mr. Levine has said in the past that he did not negotiate with Mr. Wilpon.
According to city records, Bear, Stearns has received more than $25 million in sales tax breaks and millions more in property tax abatements and low-cost electricity related to its offices at MetroTech.
City officials contend that the 1997 deal wrapped in the 1991 agreement. 
The bank would incur several million dollars in penalties if it sends a contingent of employees from Brooklyn to New Jersey and its citywide payroll falls below 5,700. A heftier fine is included in the agreement -- double the amount of benefits it has already received -- but not unless the number of employees drops below 5,187.
According to city officials and real estate executives, Bear, Stearns has said that it can save as much as $40 million by moving to New Jersey and taking advantage of state tax breaks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HIJACKING (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BONDS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); AIRLINES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS & CO 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (74%); JAMES E CAYNE (58%); JIMMY CAYNE (58%) BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



339 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: WHITE HOUSE; 
Bush Warns Foes Not to Use Weapons of Mass Destruction on U.S. Troops

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The Bush administration published a new strategy today on combatting weapons of mass destruction that included a statement, clearly directed at potential opponents like Iraq. Washington is prepared to "respond with all our options" if such weapons are used against American troops or allies. 
 The explicit warning was contained in a six-page, unclassified version of a new presidential document that outlines the administration's approach to countering and deterring the use of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. It underscores a longstanding American policy, but officials acknowledged that it bears considerable resemblance to a private warning that Secretary of State James A. Baker III sent to Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, before the Persian Gulf war in 1991. 
 In a briefing today, a senior administration official said Mr. Bush has assigned many government agencies the task of enacting the new strategy. The official said the president was spending "considerable sums" on research into new counterproliferation strategies, beyond missile defense. But he offered no examples. 
The strategy document said, using the initials for weapons of mass destruction: "The United States will continue to make clear that it reserves the right to respond with overwhelming force -- including through resort to all our options -- to the use of W.M.D. against the United States, our forces abroad, and friends and allies." 
That warning was not included in a similar strategy document issued by the Clinton administration in 1993. Mr. Clinton's approach relied chiefly on nonproliferation efforts, though at various times his administration repeated warnings that attacks using weapons of mass destruction would be met with overwhelming force. 
The strategy revision published today and a longer classified version reflect Mr. Bush's reliance on counterproliferation, including missile defenses and, when necessary, pre-emptive strikes against states or groups whose weaponry could pose a threat to the United States. While nonproliferation relies on laws and treaties to restrain countries from producing weapons of mass destruction, counterproliferation relies on force or physical interdiction to stop them. 
American officials pointed to the interdiction today of a North Korean ship carrying Scud missiles in the Arabian Sea as an example of a more aggressive counter-proliferation strategy. 
Many of the details in the strategy, including state and local preparations for emergency response in case of a chemical or biological attack, are part of the post-Sept. 11 precautions that now seem familiar. The policy also calls for tighter controls on nuclear materials, better export controls, and the strengthening of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, one of the few international treaties that the administration has endorsed. 
"What's new here is that we have a comprehensive strategy," the official said. "Every administration comes under criticism for not have an integrated strategy on issues like this. We do." 
But that strategy makes no mention of the painful tradeoffs that the administration has already been forced to make to keep its coalition against terrorism together. 
Pakistan, for example, has never signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and is widely believed by American intelligence agencies to have provided nuclear aid to North Korea. Yet the Bush administration lifted all nuclear-related economic sanctions against Pakistan when it needed the country's help pursuing leaders of Al Qaeda. 
The strategy document says that "because each of these regimes is different, we will pursue country-specific strategies that best enable us and our friends and allies to prevent, deter and defend against W.M.D. and missile threats." 
Administration officials say the document has been in draft form for months, and they contend the timing of its release had no relationship to the growing confrontation with Iraq. One official noted that Mr. Baker's warning to Saddam Hussein had come "when hostilities were imminent," a point the United States has not yet reached. 
Nonetheless, the comparisons with the Baker letter are striking. 
Mr. Baker recalled in his memoirs, "The Politics of Diplomacy," that in dealing with Iraq in the period leading up to the war in January 1991, "I purposely left the impression that the use of chemical or biological agents by Iraq could invite tactical nuclear retaliation." (In fact, he said, President George H.W. Bush had decided not to retaliate with chemical or nuclear weapons if Mr. Hussein launched a chemical attack.) 
"This is not a threat, it is a promise," Mr. Baker recalled saying. "If there is any use of weapons like that, our objective won't just be the liberation of Kuwait, but the elimination of the current Iraqi regime." 
The senior official who briefed reporters today said Mr. Hussein appeared to have understood the message, "and he didn't cross that line." 
The current Bush administration has worried that deterring Mr. Hussein from using chemical or biological weapons may prove more difficult this time. 
Mr. Bush has repeatedly stated that "regime change" is his goal. His aides have conceded in background conversations that, should Mr. Hussein fear for his own survival, he might be more tempted to reach for his most destructive weaponry. 
Mr. Bush has specifically warned against that, and openly encouraged Iraqi generals not to act on any instructions from Mr. Hussein to use such weapons against American troops, Israel or other neighbors. The statement today, however, marks a more explicit version of that warning. 
"The language speaks for itself," the senior official said, "and I think it does apply to any state that would use weapons of mass destruction against us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); EXPORT CONTROLS (62%); EXPORT TRADE (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A III; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (58%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



340 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DISSENT; 
Protests Held Across the Country to Oppose War in Iraq

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
From a morning blockade of a federal building in Chicago to a lunchtime march to the White House to an evening discussion at a Y.W.C.A. in Detroit, a cross-section of activists, celebrities and everyday Americans held more than 150 events across the country today to oppose a war with Iraq.
 Organized by a coalition of more than 70 groups called United for Peace, the events ranged in attendance from several dozen at Youngstown, Ohio, and Mineola, N.Y., to several hundred in Santa Fe, N.M., and Oakland, Calif. 
 Organizers and participants said the diverse turnout represented a growing wave of popular dissent, even as the country inches closer to military action.
The scattered displays of dissent did not compare to the large turnout at a national protest held in Washington in late October, which attracted more than 100,000 people from around the nation. 
But organizers said size was not their intent this time. Instead, by fanning out to small towns, neighborhood squares and workday traffic areas, they said they hoped to emphasize a growing wave of skepticism and dissent to war. 
"We want you to hear us, Mr. President," Damu Smith, director of Black Voices for Peace, one of the coordinating groups, said as he stood with a midday crowd of several hundred in Washington. "We hope you hear our voices today."
The hundreds of speeches given nationwide included tributes to Philip F. Berrigan, a former Roman Catholic priest and anti-Vietnam war organizer who died last week, and salutes to President Jimmy Carter, who was being presented the Nobel Peace Prize as some of the events took place. 
The day of protests, Mr. Smith said, represent a new phase in coalition building around the anti-war movement, and several more events are scheduled in the weeks and months ahead.
In Los Angeles, a group of celebrities including the actors Martin Sheen, Hector Elizondo and Tony Shalhoub turned out to add high-profile support to the movement. More than 100 entertainers have signed a letter to President Bush appealing for a diplomatic rather than a military response in Iraq. 
"It's time to stand up and declare ourselves as patriots concerned for our country," Mr. Elizondo said.
The celebrity group is part of a larger coalition called Win Without War that will officially begin on Wednesday. Backed by national religious and civic organizations, including the National Council of Churches, the N.A.A.C.P., the National Organization for Women and the Sierra Club, organizers said the group's purpose was to emphasize what they called a mainstreaming of the antiwar movement.
"We are patriotic Americans who share President Bush's belief that Saddam Hussein's Iraq cannot be allowed to acquire weapons of mass destruction," reads the coalition's political mission statement. "We part ways with the president, however, on the issue of pre-emptive military attack against Iraq."
One of the founding organizations, MoveOn.Org., started an online signature campaign a week ago titled, "Let the Inspections Work." Within days, it gathered more than 175,000 signatures and over $300,000 in donations to buy antiwar advertisements in national media outlets.
"There is significant energy building out there," said Eli Pariser, the internet-based group's international campaign director.
The events today varied widely in tone and turnout. In New York, the police arrested 99 clergy members from a variety of faiths on charges of blocking the doors to the United Nations mission. 
In Santa Fe, a children's marimba band joined junior high students, middle-aged Green Party members, Veterans for Peace and hundreds of lunchtime passers-by in singing a version of the Christmas carol "Deck the Halls." 
"Peace is jolly, war is folly," sang the crowd. 
On an icy playground in the Boston neighborhood Jamaica Plain, about 50 members of a group called Latinos Together Against the War came together for a puppet show, rap performance and poetry reading for peace. 
Unlike some protests that are dominated by college students, these events had a significant turnout of middle-aged professionals and older people. 
Louise Franklin Ramirez, 97, attended the Washington rally in her wheelchair. Margo Smith, 72, of Berkeley, Calif., joined in chants in front of the Ronald V. Dellums Federal Building in Oakland saying, "Peace is the power of the people."
Bob Taylor, an economist for the World Bank, skipped lunch to join the march to the White House. He took his family to the Washington march in October carrying a sign that read, "Average American Family Against War With Iraq." On his way to work, Mr. Taylor said he saw a leaflet for today's rally and decided to squeeze it into his day.
"The perception out there that ordinary people are not paying attention to what's going on and are not concerned about the possibility of war is wrong," Mr. Taylor said. "Very few of my friends and colleagues support this war, even if they did not walk over to stand here today."

GRAPHIC: Photos: More than 150 events were held yesterday to oppose war with Iraq. Above, protesters at a military recruiting station in Washington. Below, an arrest at a protest at Dag Hammarskjold Plaza in Manhattan. (Doug Mills/The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); WOMEN (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FOR PEACE AND JUSTICE (ORGN) 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) CLEMETSON, LYNETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



341 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Financial Crisis Forces AmeriCorps To Halt Recruiting 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
AmeriCorps, the national service program, has frozen its recruiting of volunteers and reassigned some managers after officials learned that it did not have enough money in the trust fund that gives volunteers educational grants, officials said today.
 The inspector general of the Corporation for National Service, which oversees AmeriCorps, is examining the possible mishandling of the program's budget. 
 That review was prompted, in part, by questions from senators responsible for overseeing the program.
"The inspector general has been requested by the agency head and some senators to investigate the cause of the problem and to review the steps being taken by management to prevent a repeat of it," the inspector general, J. Russell George, said in an interview.
Officials familiar with the inquiry said at least two managers had been demoted. 
The budget shortfall was most likely a result of negligence, not malfeasance, the officials said. 
The freeze on recruits is a setback for President Bush, an advocate of expanding community service. In his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush encouraged all Americans to give at least two years of service in their lifetimes. Volunteers responded with a surge in enrollment, the fastest ever, agency officials said.
The AmeriCorps staff is "very much concerned," an employee of the program said. 
"Our job is to support people who want to serve their country and respond to the president's call to service," the employee said. "At the moment, that opportunity doesn't exist."
AmeriCorps gives grants to 50,000 participants who devote one or two years to serving the community. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%) VOLUNTEERS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: CORP FOR NATIONAL & COMMUNITY SERVICE (59%) AMERICORPS; CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; GEORGE, J RUSSELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



342 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

North Korean Ship Stopped With Missiles in Its Cargo
A North Korean cargo vessel flying no flag was halted in the Gulf of Aden by two Spanish warships, and a search revealed Scud missiles hidden beneath sacks of concrete, officials said. The ship appeared to be heading for Yemen when it was stopped, but officials said the ultimate destination remained unknown. Officials also said there was no clear link between Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups and the ship. A1

Hans Blix, the chief of the United Nations weapons team, told the Security Council that he is not going to release the names of foreign arms suppliers that Iraq has identified in its weapons declaration because they could be valuable to inspectors as sources of information. A20

Iraq turned increasingly confrontational, with statements, one from President Saddam Hussein, suggesting that it plans to go toe-to-toe with the Bush administration in the war of words over the arms crisis. A20

Tales of Chemical Warfare
Iraqi Kurds who were the victims of a 1988 chemical warfare attack by Saddam Hussein's government are still suffering the consequences and they say they do not believe his government's contentions that it no longer has weapons of mass destruction. A22

Carter Accepts Noble Prize
Former President Jimmy Carter accepted the Nobel Peace Prize at a ceremony in Oslo, then used the platform to try to steer events away from an armed conflict in Iraq. A1

Push for Cyprus Reunification
Less than 48 hours before a meeting of the European Union in Copenhagen during which the group is expected to approve the largest expansion in its history, a deal to reunite Cyprus -- a prospective member country -- seemed far from assured. A3

New U.S. Weapons Strategy
The Bush administration published a new strategy for combating weapons of mass destruction that included a statement that the United States is prepared to use nuclear weapons if necessary to respond to any attack on American troops and allies with weapons of mass destruction. A20

NATIONAL A24-33

Call for Cabinet Position To Supervise Intelligence
The joint Congressional committee investigating the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks called for the creation of a new director of national intelligence, a position that would narrow the authority of the director of the C.I.A. A1

Church Settles Criminal Case
The Roman Catholic diocese of Manchester, N.H., settled a criminal case by publicly acknowledging that it had failed to protect children from sexually abusive priests and that it would probably have been convicted under the state's child endangerment law. A31

Delay on Economic Choice
President Bush delayed announcing his choice for chief White House economic policy advisor, and critics of the leading candidate, Stephen Friedman, attacked him as insufficiently committed to tax cuts. A26

Poultry Plants Under Inspection
A federal meat inspector said a Pennsylvania poultry plant, one of two operations under investigation as a likely source of a listeria outbreak that has killed eight people since July, had persistent sanitation problems that could have fostered the deadly bacteria. A32

Airline Faulted in Plane Crash
An Alaska Airlines jet crashed off the Los Angeles coast in January 2000 because the airline stretched out maintenance intervals and the Federal Aviation Administration contributed to the crash by acquiescing in the airline's decision, the National Transportation Safety Board concluded. A24

Court Hears Redistricting Case
The Supreme Court heard a Mississippi redistricting case. The justices did not address the political controversy: the Bush administration's use of the Voting Rights Act in a way that was disadvantageous to blacks and favorable to a Republican candidate for Congress. A28

Colorado River Plan Threatened
A plan to end fighting among seven Western states over water from the Colorado River appeared near collapse after the Southern California district refused to sell water to nearby San Diego County. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

City Begins Preparations In Event of Transit Strike
The city began preparing for a transit workers strike as if a blizzard were coming. The transit workers union and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority remained at an impasse over a new contract. B1

Tobacco Bonds Eyed for Budget
Gov. George E. Pataki said he would ask the Legislature to authorize selling bonds backed by money from a tobacco-suit settlement to pay for a projected $2 billion shortfall in this year's budget. A1

U.S. Death Penalty Upheld
A federal appeals panel upheld the legality of the federal death penalty, reversing a Manhattan judge who said in July that the law was unconstitutional in light of the growing number of death-row exonerations. B4

Neediest Cases B7

EDUCATION B9

SPORTS D1-7

Pursuing a Return to Baseball
Pete Rose, the player banned from professional baseball in 1989, met with Commissioner Bud Selig about two weeks ago. People involved said they believed Rose would likely be reinstated as long as he admitted that he bet on baseball games. D1

OBITUARIES C17

DINING F1-16

ARTS E1-10

New Museums for Manhattan
Two new museums with a combined construction cost of nearly $100 million are in the works for Manhattan, despite a tight economy. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

New S.E.C. Chief Named
President Bush selected William H. Donaldson, left, former head of the New York Stock Exchange, founder of a brokerage firm and old friend of the Bush family, to chair the Securities and Exchange Commission. A1

No Change in Interest Rates
The Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged and repeated its view that the economy is working through a "soft spot" and that monetary policy is lax enough. C1

Budget Airlines Threaten United
United Airlines might start a low-cost carrier, but industry experts say that will not be an easy way for it to emerge from bankruptcy. C1

Internet Libel Suit Advances
Australia's high court ruled that a libel case against Dow Jones & Company could proceed in a local court. Many publishers fear they are now open to libel prosecution in any country with Internet access. C6

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A34-35

Editorials: A union on the wrong track; a blow to online freedom; keeping Dick Cheney's secrets; sifting the ashes.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); RELIGION (84%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); MEAT INSPECTION (74%); POULTRY & EGG INSPECTION (74%); MEATS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); POULTRY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CHILD ABUSE (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); CHILDREN (60%); TAX LAW (60%); POULTRY PROCESSING (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (86%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); JIMMY CARTER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (66%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); YEMEN (92%); CYPRUS (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



343 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Fed Decides Not to Change Interest Rates 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged today, leaving its main short-term rate at its lowest level in 41 years as policy makers wait for more signs of economic strength.
 In a statement after today's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, the Fed repeated its view that the economy was working through a "soft spot" and that existing monetary policy was loose enough at the moment. 
 Last month, the Federal Reserve made an aggressive move by reducing the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks by half a percentage point, to just 1.25 percent. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has called the move an "insurance premium" in case the economy proves to be weaker than expected. 
Given the big rate cut last month and the continued signs of economic weakness, the decision today to stand pat came as no surprise. But analysts said the absence of new guidance from the Fed reinforced their view that rates would be kept down for at least the next several months.
"I think our central bank is very content with where it has set policy," said Carl R. Tannenbaum, chief economist at ABN Amro North America.
Economic data over the last month has continued to be mixed. On the positive side, productivity growth has been surprisingly brisk, the stock market has rallied somewhat from its October lows and the economy grew at a remarkably robust annualized rate of 4 percent in the third quarter.
But other signs are less encouraging. The government reported last week that the unemployment rate climbed an unexpectedly large amount in November, to 6 percent. Consumer confidence is lower than it was six months ago, and business investment remains stagnant. Most economists say that growth in the fourth quarter will once again be anemic as automobile sales sputter and consumer spending slows. 
Looming behind all that are the uncertainties of a possible war with Iraq and growing unease about economic stagnation in Japan and parts of Europe, particularly Germany.
In its statement today, the Federal Reserve reiterated its view that the economy is caught in a sluggish phase but will gradually pick up.
"The limited number of incoming economic indicators since the November meeting, taken together, are not inconsistent with the economy working its way through its current soft spot," the Fed said, in a display of the tangled ambiguity in which Mr. Greenspan often couches his comments.
Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, wrote in a research note, "We take this to be an unnecessarily tortuous way of saying that the leading indicators generally look a bit better while most of the coincident numbers still stink."
The National Association of Business Economics, in its most recent survey of economists, reduced its forecast for annualized growth in the current quarter to just 1.4 percent from 2.7 percent.
Mr. Tannenbaum of ABN Amro predicts that growth in this quarter may only be half that much. "Even with very inexpensive financing, there still isn't a willingness to make capital expenditures," Mr. Tannenbaum said. And despite signs of fairly buoyant holiday shopping after Thanksgiving, consumers may be losing energy as well.
Automobile sales are down substantially, in part because sales were inflated to record levels earlier this year as manufacturers lured consumers with zero percent financing deals. Car sales were a pillar of consumer spending, but part of the effect of the sales-incentive deals was simply to pull forward sales that might have taken place later in the year.
Fed officials have been couching their analysis in terms of probabilities, saying that there is a low but not insignificant possibility that the nation could slip back into a recession.
Mr. Greenspan, in explaining last month's rate cut, has said inflation is now so low -- running at slightly more than 2 percent -- that the inflationary risks of the rate cut were far outweighed by the added economic activity that it could promote.
The problem is that businesses have not been reacting much to the low interest rates. Manufacturing has been contracting for the last several months, prices for a wide range of goods are declining and businesses are bent on squeezing more productivity out of fewer workers.
Mr. Greenspan and other top Fed officials are openly concerned about the possibility of Japanese-style deflation. Real interest rates, after accounting for inflation, are already close to zero.
But if the Fed is forced to drop its nominal rate to zero as well, it will have to resort to other tools for pumping money into the economy like buying longer-term Treasury bills. 
Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials have said they have more than enough ammunition left, even in the unlikely event that interest rates decline to zero. But they acknowledge they would find themselves in uncharted territory. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (88%); STATISTICS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



344 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Planning Commission To Overhaul Postal Service 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The Bush administration plans to announce a commission on Wednesday to make recommendations for overhauling the nation's troubled postal system, officials said.
 The bipartisan commission is to be led by two business executives, James A. Johnson, the vice chairman of Perseus, a financial services company, and Harry J. Pearce, the chairman of the Hughes Electronics Corporation, who will serve as co-chairmen, the officials said. 
 The nine-member commission will be charged with identifying the problems and proposing solutions for the Postal Service, which at the end of the last fiscal year reported $11 billion in losses and outstanding loans. President Bush has requested a report by July 31. The panel's findings are expected to clear the ground for the first major reorganization of the postal service since 1971. 
The service is the bedrock of a $900 billion domestic mailing industry, which represents about 8 percent of the nation's gross domestic product and has nine million workers. In recent years, the system has been shaken by fierce competition from the private sector, including overnight package delivery services, and the growing use of the Internet to send mail and pay bills.
Mr. Johnson, a prominent figure in Washington, is a former chairman of Fannie Mae, the federally backed home mortage organization.
Mr. Pearce, an engineer and lawyer, is a former vice chairman of General Motors, which owns Hughes. 
The other commission members are:
Dionel Aviles, president of the Aviles Engineering Corporation in Texas
Don V. Cogman, chairman of CC Investments in Scottsdale, Ariz.
Carolyn Gallagher, the former chief executive of Texwood Furniture in Taylor, Tex.
Richard Levin, president of Yale
Norman Seabrook, president of the New York City Correction Officers' Benevolent Association
Robert Walker, chief executive of the Wexler Group in Washington
Joseph Wright, chief executive of PanAmSat in Wilton, Conn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (67%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (52%); INTERNET & WWW (52%) POSTAL SERVICE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); WEXLER GROUP (53%)

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (84%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); JOHNSON, JAMES A; PEARCE, HARRY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



345 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: FORMER CHAIRMAN OF STOCK EXCHANGE IS BUSH'S S.E.C. PICK 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
President Bush turned to Wall Street today and selected William H. Donaldson, a former head of the New York Stock Exchange, founder of a successful brokerage firm and longtime friend of the Bush family, to be the next chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 At the same time, the president made a policy U-turn on the budget of the cash-starved agency and announced he would support an increase for 2004 that he said would be "nearly double" last year's budget. 
 Aides said it would be even more than the $776 million that had been authorized for the current fiscal year, but never received. Two months ago, White House officials said they would urge Congress to provide the agency with $568 million, or 27 percent less, than was initially voted by Congress and signed by the president. 
Mr. Bush's selection of Mr. Donaldson and his announcement of the proposed budget increase seemed to be aimed at ensuring that the commission regains its footing by the 2004 elections. The moves came after sharp criticism from lawmakers and experts that the agency's turmoil had been caused by a leadership crisis, White House neglect and a lack of resources and staff. 
The appointment of Mr. Donaldson, which is subject to confirmation by the Senate, was endorsed today by prominent members of both parties. It came five weeks after Harvey L. Pitt announced his resignation in the wake of a series of political blunders. His final misstep, the mishandling of the selection of a new accounting oversight board, also prompted the resignations of his choice for the chairman of that board, William H. Webster, and of Robert K. Herdman, the S.E.C.'s chief accountant, who had been handpicked by Mr. Pitt.
Mr. Donaldson, 71, is a well-known figure on Wall Street, and a founder and the first dean of the management school at Yale University. Like many other top appointees of Mr. Bush, he served in the Nixon and Ford administrations. Page C1. 
The administration has been reshuffling its economic team, dismissing senior officials and refilling their jobs. Officials say Mr. Bush is close to selecting the next head of the National Economic Council, but the president has delayed making an announcement, opening the door to criticism of the leading candidate, Stephen Friedman, from some who see him as insufficiently committed to tax cuts. Page A26. 
On Monday, the president selected John W. Snow, chairman of the CSX Corporation, to be the next secretary of the Treasury.
In contrast to Mr. Pitt, a figure widely regarded as combative who made many enemies in Congress, Mr. Donaldson is seen as more polished, and his previous government service includes a diplomatic stint as an under secretary of state.
He is also an old friend of Mr. Bush's father and of his uncle, Jonathan Bush, whom he met when they were undergraduates at Yale. His first job on Wall Street was at the brokerage firm G. H. Walker & Company, which was run by Herbert Walker, the uncle of the first President Bush.
Mr. Donaldson faces a panoply of significant regulatory decisions in the coming months that affect every aspect of corporate governance. If confirmed as the S.E.C.'s 27th chairman, he will lead the agency as it settles on new rules governing corporate lawyers, accountants, directors and stock analysts. But little is known of his views on the issues before the agency.
Commission officials say that even before his confirmation hearings, expected to take place early next year, he will be consulted by the other commissioners who want to quickly select the head of the board overseeing the accounting profession, which is supposed to have its first official meeting early next month. Mr. Donaldson formally began the process by calling each of the commissioners this morning and introducing himself.
Mr. Donaldson said little today about his specific policy priorities after the year of corporate scandals and market turmoil.
"Confidence in the U.S. corporate and financial industries has been seriously eroded during the past few years," he said in a brief appearance with Mr. Bush in the Roosevelt Room of the White House. "Corporate managers, boards of directors, operators, regulators of our financial markets, as well as those who advise, including bankers and lawyers and accountants, must be constantly mindful of the trusts that shareholders have placed in them. Each of us must take that trust seriously."
"As my mother used to say many years ago, it's time for all of us to pull up our socks," he concluded.
Experts on securities regulation who follow the commission closely expressed relief that Mr. Pitt, who has remained at the agency to ensure what he called a smooth transition, would soon be leaving.
They could not predict the direction Mr. Donaldson would take the commission because his views on crucial issues now confronting it are largely unknown. He has never spoken publicly about many issues before the agency and, following the tradition of presidential nominees, he said today that he would not comment until after his confirmation hearing on what he hopes to accomplish.
"The intangibles about him are probably the most important factors that will determine whether he is successful," said James D. Cox, a professor of securities and corporate law at Duke University. "He has to earn the confidence of both parties on Capitol Hill. He has to affirm to the staff that what they are doing is important. We need a person with a strong public image, not only for the integrity of the capital markets but for the agency itself."
Joel Seligman, a leading authority on securities law and a historian of the commission, said that the biggest single issue confronting Mr. Donaldson was the "leadership crisis" at the S.E.C.
"We need a grown-up leading the commission, a person who can reduce the partisan animosity which has gotten in the way of the commission's ability to do its job," said Mr. Seligman, the dean of the law school at Washington University in St. Louis.
On Capitol Hill, the appointment was endorsed by leading Republicans and Democrats.
"Bill Donaldson has a proven track record in turning around difficult situations," said Representative Michael G. Oxley, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and had been one of Mr. Pitt's most important allies in Congress. "His understanding of Wall Street dynamics and his experience in both the private sector and as a securities regulator make him a first-rate choice for S.E.C. chairman."
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Mr. Donaldson "is a good appointment."
"If you had two criteria for the job, a knowledge of how the markets work and a reputation for integrity, Donaldson's got both of those," he said. "He has not been intimately involved in the day-to-day operations of Wall Street, so he will not defend its existing practices. He's not wedded to them. But he has an appreciation for how markets work."
Other Democrats offered a more cautious assessment.
"Arthur Levitt proved that you can come from industry and still be a pro-investor regulator," said Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, referring to Mr. Pitt's predecessor. "I can only hope Mr. Donaldson proves the same."
A native of Buffalo, Mr. Donaldson was a member of Skull and Bones, the Yale secret society. In 1959, he and two school friends became founders of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, which grew from a tiny firm into the 10th-largest brokerage house when he left in 1973. 
He left Wall Street for Washington to become an under secretary of state under Henry A. Kissinger. He then served as counsel to Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller. After leaving government, he was a founder and the first dean of the Yale University School of Management, and in the early 1990's he served as chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. Last year he retired from Aetna, where he was briefly chairman, president and chief executive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush yesterday with William H. Donaldson, his choice as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Bush is said to be close to filling another post, the head of the National Economic Council. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (61%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (61%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (61%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) LABATON, STEPHEN; DONALDSON, WILLIAM H 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



346 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Keen on Stimulus, but Limited in Leeway 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
"I'll gladly pay you Tuesday for a hamburger today." The familiar refrain of Wimpy, who tried to push the cost of his appetite into the future in the Popeye cartoon, has found a new parallel in the debate over President Bush's plan to kick-start the lagging economy with more tax cuts and incentives.
 Some experts see room for more spending and tax cuts to ensure that the economy returns quickly to strong growth, but others worry that the cost of stimulus now will only add to the economic problems down the road. 
 The president's promise to extend his 10-year schedule of tax cuts well into the future, as the centerpiece of a stimulus package, has been one of the most disputed proposals.
"Given the possibility of huge deficits down the road, making the president's tax cut permanent strikes me as something that is probably moving in the wrong direction," said Peter A. Diamond, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "If you wanted to do a stimulation package that didn't drive you deeper into debt, you would do it with a temporary cut combined with a later boost." 
The members of the White House economic team have argued against a temporary cut because households would not spend it quickly enough to spur an economic revival. They also argue that lower income tax rates will encourage more entrepreneurial activity, helping to foster faster growth that would at least partly refill the government's coffers.
Professor Diamond offered a two-sided plan, which coupled a cut now with a tax increase in the future, as an alternative. He predicted that it might actually help today's economy more, by convincing investors that long-term interest rates would stay low, rather than rise on fears of ever-larger budget deficits.
He said he also doubted that people would truly perceive more tax cuts to be permanent, given the state of the government's coffers.
"Even if the Republicans stay in charge of the whole ball of wax," Professor Diamond said, "given certain deficit scenarios, you've got to expect they're going to revisit the tax law."
Just as the Federal Reserve may be running out of room to cut short-term interest rates, the federal government may have dwindling leeway to tax less and spend more without harming long-term interest rates. When expectations for the government's borrowing in the future rise, according to economic theory and some history, long-term interest rates in both the public and the private sector tend to rise as well.
The economy has already moved from hundreds of billions in surplus to hundred of billions in deficit within two years. Waging war in Iraq could cost up to $200 billion more, according to the administration's own estimates.
Fearing a big drain on the Treasury, a few analysts have also argued that the Bush administration may even preclude its own goals, like fundamental tax reform, by pursuing a substantial stimulus package now.
"I just hope that there's not too much that's done now in terms of revenue giveaway," said Donald H. Straszheim, president of Straszheim Global Advisors in Santa Monica, Calif., "which makes it more difficult to achieve the real reform that the country finally decides it favors."
Mr. Straszheim predicted that a complete restructuring of the tax system could become law as long as it lowered everyone's taxes, at least by a little bit. Yet passing a big stimulus package now, he said, might make that kind of change too costly to propose in the future.
As part of a fundamental tax overhaul, the Republican leadership favors exempting dividends from taxation as personal income and abolishing the tax on capital gains. The Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, a nonprofit research group, estimates that the first change would cost the government $300 billion to $500 billion in revenue the next decade, depending on the treatment of mutual funds. In 1999, the Joint Committee on Taxation calculated that just cutting the tax rates on long-term capital gains to 15 percent from 20 percent and to 7.5 percent from 10 percent could cost about $50 billion over 10 years.
The revenue lost from making last year's tax cuts permanent could overshadow the costs of those proposals, however. The center estimates that it would reduce the government's revenue by $680 billion for 2011-13 alone.
Overhauling Social Security is another big-ticket goal of the Bush administration. The president's plan to add personal investment accounts to the system would require an infusion of up to $1 trillion from the regular budget, according to President Bush's Commission to Strengthen Social Security.
But Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the former Democratic senator from New York and co-chairman of the commission, doubts that any overhaul will occur soon.
"We have about 10 years before we have a deficit problem," he said, referring to Social Security's own budget. "I solemnly predict that we will do something about it about five months after we pass that point." As a result, he said, "Social Security prospects wouldn't weigh much in the balance of 18-month or 36-month stimulus."
Indeed, a focus on the long term runs counter to the mood in Washington and on Wall Street.
"Once you've got the economy on a firm footing, then you worry about the deficit," said Robert E. Mellman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. He added that a fiscal stimulus was definitely needed to spur faster growth. "The tax cuts in January of this year and the rebate checks actually did boost consumer spending," he said. "To the extent you get more money in people's pockets, they will spend it."
Mr. Mellman said that his firm now expected the Federal Reserve to hold off on changes in interest rates the next several months. Though that might make a fiscal stimulus more important in the eyes of some investors and consumers, Mr. Straszheim said that he thought the economy was already on the right track.
"The private sector has already turned the corner and is going to be gradually improving, albeit at a somewhat slow pace in the next few months," he said. "The economy is going to be O.K. in 2004 and 2005, in any case."
Yet waiting a couple of years for a strong economy is not a politically attractive option for the administration, which signaled its concern last week by dismissing Paul H. O'Neill as Treasury secretary and Lawrence B. Lindsey as White House economic counselor. So the question then becomes where to aim the stimulus effort.
On that point, mainstream economists have been virtually unanimous. "Low-to-middle income people who are crunched spend what they have," Mr. Mellman said.
Professor Diamond agreed, "Lower-income people spend a higher portion of what they would get than higher-income people." 
Both suggested further rebates to the payroll tax for Social Security, with the government stepping in to shore up contributions to the retirement system.
The president has not yet revealed whether he intends to heed that advice. Regardless of the policies he and Congress choose, though, months may pass before the economic effects become clear. But advocates contend that any package of tax cuts and investment incentives would not do any harm immediately and would provide an extra insurance policy against potential adverse economic consequences from a war with Iraq.
"It would provide some stimulus," Mr. Mellman said. "It would help. It's just hard to know how much." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); INCOME TAX (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) ALTMAN, DANIEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DIAMOND, PETER A (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



347 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: As Commuters Line Up Rides, Some Hope to Ride Out Scare 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
Ride a bike?
 "That would be some ride in this cold," said Keenan Watson, ruling out one of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's suggestions for getting around town should transit workers make good on their threat to strike on Monday. 
 Mr. Watson, who rides the subway from Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, to his job at Lehman Brothers in Midtown Manhattan, also chafed at the notion of walking. He came up empty on an immediate alternative, as did many New Yorkers just grasping the idea of a city without subways or buses. 
"My contingency plan is in abeyance," he said. "It's in flux. No question."
With the transit workers' union and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority at an impasse over a new contract, much of the city began preparing as if a blizzard were coming. And as with a forecast for bad weather, some people took it seriously, arranging car pools or even booking hotel rooms for emergency stays.
Others shrugged, noting the brinkmanship transit workers and the M.T.A. have played in years past.
And for all the determined bikers and walkers, many commuters, particularly in the suburbs and boroughs outside Manhattan, seemed unable to fathom how they would get to work or school.
Suburbanites who might have considered driving blanched at the restriction of at least four people to a car that Mr. Bloomberg said he would impose on bridge and tunnel crossings into Manhattan should a strike occur.
"I could give you a ride, but we still wouldn't have four people," Adam Schneider, of Great Neck, suggested to David Pegoli, a fellow Long Islander who was uncertain how he would get from Midtown to work on East Ninth Street after his arrival by Long Island Rail Road at Pennsylvania Station.
Mr. Pegoli said, "I guess I'll wait for a cab but I got to wrestle other people to get one."
Several companies and commuters were snapping up hotel rooms. Joe Cecala, general manager of the Holiday Inn at 57th Street and Ninth Avenue, said the hotel was 70 percent booked for Sunday and Monday.
"It's everyone," he said. "Businessmen who travel locally from New Jersey, chauffeurs who drive for people who live out in Staten Island and Brooklyn, commuter students piling up four to a room."
Businesses compiled lists of employees who rely on public transportation and studied options like providing vans or arranging car pools.
Some New Yorkers said they would heed Mr. Bloomberg's call for sacrifice and dust off their bikes or hit the pavement.
Elizabeth Vasquez, the daughter of a subway train operator, said she did not realize the possibility of a strike was so real until she listened to the radio yesterday morning. She said she had not figured out how she would get to work in Midtown from her home near the 167th Street subway station in the Bronx. A daily round-trip cab fare, she added, would eat nearly halfway into her weekly paycheck.
"Obviously I can't come to work if the strike happens," said Ms. Vasquez, a receptionist.
The ripple effect of a strike would reach well beyond commuters. Consider James Gardner, a subway musician in Grand Central Terminal, who was counting on his holiday-season earnings to pay for the professional-grade saxophone he said he needed for his big break.
No subway riders, no tips.
"Come on, it's Christmastime," he said. "We really need this transportation."
Mr. Bloomberg has estimated a strike could cost the city's economy $100 million to $350 million a day.
Roman Kuperschmidt, the owner of Roma's Barbershop at the 50th Street subway station, said he expected business to drop off by at least 50 percent.
"And there'll be no shoeshines; everyone will be wearing sneakers," Mr. Kuperschmidt said, pointing to the shoeshine stand in his salon.
On the flip side, some bicycle shops reported an increase in business, though the rush that accompanied the last strike, an 11-day job action in April 1980, has not happened.
"This is the off-season for most bike shops, and this year wasn't the greatest year because of the economy, so this is a good thing," said Leo Linval, manager of Metro Bicycles in Midtown.
Scott J. Pactor took his bike in for a tuneup at Metro Bicycles just in case he needed it for his trip from his home on the West Side to his job in Chelsea.
But colleagues at his office who were skeptical or uninformed about the threatened strike were surprised he was making such plans, and Mr. Pactor himself questioned whether the buildup was akin to the anxiety two years ago over possible technology failures at the start of 2000.
"I was wondering if this is going to be similar to Y2K, where everybody prepared for something, and it didn't happen," he said.
The threat of a strike persuaded people like Mary Thompson of Scotch Plains, N.J., to move up their holiday shopping plans in the city.
"I did not want to wait until next week because the conditions will be too tough, and those are long walks," said Ms. Thompson, as she waited for a train into the city, where she planned to shop and to see the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Plaza.
"It's a little early for us to be going in," she said, "but with the strike it's the best option."
Some commuters recalled the last time transit workers walked out.
Rosemarie Krist said she walked miles and miles day after day, sharing a camaraderie borne of common hardship.
Nowadays, because of chronic back problems, Ms. Krist often walks with a cane. She plans to talk to some neighbors in her apartment building about splitting cab fare, but other than that, she said she could not think of how to get to her job in Midtown.
"Right now," she said, "it's wing-and-a-prayer type of stuff."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anticipating a strike, Scott J. Pactor had his bicycle tuned up at a Midtown shop, though he said he thought the concerns about a transit walkout might be overblown. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); STRIKES (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); TRAINS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (73%); WEATHER (73%); SUBURBS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BUSES; LABOR; STRIKES; COMMUTING 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



348 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Brazilian Meets Bush and Vows to Cooperate on Freer Trade 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
President-elect Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, who campaigned against the global reach of American power, brought a more conciliatory message to the White House today, pledging to work with the Bush administration to open both countries' markets to freer trade.
 In their first meeting, Mr. da Silva and President Bush managed to establish a working rapport despite their broad ideological differences, aides said. "The president was encouraged to hear the message that President Lula offered concerning trade and the importance of trade to economic development," Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said after the meeting. 
 In an appearance before reporters later in the day, Mr. da Silva said Mr. Bush had proposed establishing a working group to explore common concerns for the two countries over the coming months. Brazil has both the largest population and largest economy in South America, accounting for 40 percent of the continent's total economy.
Saying he had "an excellent impression" of Mr. Bush, Mr. da Silva added, "I will go back to Brazil knowing that I can count on President Bush as an ally."
Such assurances might come as a minor shock to people in Brazil, where Mr. da Silva won a landslide victory in October by warning about the dangers of globalization and asserting that a free trade pact for the entire hemisphere -- one of Mr. Bush's chief foreign policy goals -- would be "tantamount to an annexation of Brazil by the United States."
Mr. da Silva did not abandon all his populist oratory today, saying in a speech at the National Press Club that his first priority would be "to fight against hunger, unemployment and crime," and insisting that the economic "asymmetries" between wealthy northern countries and poor southern ones be reduced. "Brazil favors a genuine hemispheric integration," he said, "but cannot fail to recognize that great inequalities currently exist between the North and South of the Americas."
But he leavened his remarks with promises evidently intended to reassure the bankers, investment houses, aid organizations and conservatives on Capitol Hill who have fretted that his election could lead to a surge in anti-American protectionism across Latin America. 
He said, for example, that his administration would be "characterized by fiscal responsibility, the fight against inflation and respect for contractual obligations and agreements," and that "these form the basis for resuming sustained economic growth."
Mr. da Silva also said that as soon as his government took office in January, it would take part in negotiations on the Free Trade Area of the Americas, the hemisphere-spanning free trade zone that he ridiculed during his campaign. "The F.T.A.A., in our view, can represent a genuine opening up of the U.S. and Canadian markets," he said. "We will work to eliminate subsidies, barriers, especially in the agricultural sector."
Though he stopped far short of endorsing the trade area, his promise to negotiate was widely seen as an important gesture to Mr. Bush, its leading advocate.
In another gesture sure to be applauded on Wall Street, Mr. da Silva appeared to confirm reports that he would name Antonio Palocci finance minister. Mr. Palocci built a reputation for fiscal restraint as mayor of Ribeirao Preto, near Sao Paulo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); FOOD CHARITIES (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BRAZIL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) DA SILVA, LUIZ INACIO LULA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



349 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Nominee To Forgo $3 Million 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
President Bush's nominee for Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, said today that if confirmed he would relinquish a lucrative severance package with the CSX Corporation, of which he is chairman.
 Mr. 
Snow's contract with CSX, one of the nation's largest railroad companies, allows $3.3 million in salary, bonus and retention compensation if he takes a government job, a company proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year shows. 
 He also stood to make millions more from restricted stock and a life insurance policy, the American Federal of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations said.
"It's a very unusual clause and I'm not aware of that for any other golden parachutes," said Brandon Reese, a research analyst for the labor federation.
Mr. Reese said the point of the 2001 employment agreement was to retain Mr. Snow as chairman and chief executive through 2004. "It appears to be a poorly structured plan if he can get his severance for going into public office," Mr. Reese said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BONUS PAY (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (54%); INSURANCE POLICIES (54%) WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (57%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT; CSX CORP 

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (93%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (93%) SIC4011 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) SNOW, JOHN W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



350 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Economic Adviser's Nomination Is Delayed Amid Conservative Attacks 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
President Bush delayed announcing his choice today for chief White House economic policy adviser, providing an opening for conservative critics of the leading candidate, Stephen Friedman, to attack him as insufficiently committed to tax cuts.
 Administration officials said Mr. Friedman, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, was still the leading candidate to succeed Lawrence B. Lindsey, who resigned under pressure last week, as director of the White House's National Economic Council. They said the holdup had to do with personal issues, including selling off Mr. Friedman's extensive investments and a flare-up of a minor heart irregularity. 
 Every hour that Mr. Friedman's fate remains in limbo, Republican strategists said, could make it more difficult for the White House to stand by him or for him to do the job effectively if he gets it.
Even as they cautioned that Mr. Friedman's appointment could still come unwound, White House officials said Mr. Bush would not drop him because of the pressure from economic conservatives. 
White House officials lashed out at critics of Mr. Friedman, including Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative political action committee. They said Mr. Moore had no credibility with the administration. The White House also sought to shore up conservative support for Mr. Friedman.
The episode underscored deep splits in the Republican Party about economic policy that are sure to become more pronounced as the administration pursues an aggressive tax-cutting agenda as the budget deficit grows rapidly.
Mr. Friedman's problems with economic conservatives stem largely from his role as a board member and financial supporter of the Concord Coalition, a group that advocates fiscal discipline. The coalition has embodied the deficit-hawk line of thinking, which holds that keeping the federal budget more or less in balance over the long run helps put downward pressure on interest rates, thereby helping the economy.
Another school of thought, supply side economics, holds that there is little evidence that budget deficits cause an increase in interest rates. Moreover, supply siders say, the best way to close deficits is to encourage higher levels of economic growth, and the best way to encourage growth is to cut taxes, even if it means bigger deficits in the short to medium term.
The debate between supply siders and deficit hawks has flared periodically since the Reagan administration, and was particularly intense during the administration of George Bush, who raised taxes to help reduce the deficit. 
Some Republicans, though, said Mr. Friedman was the victim of a disagreement between people who did not recognize that tax cutting and deficit reduction, in the form of reduced government spending, could be perfectly compatible with one another, a position increasingly adopted by the Bush administration.
"The president's policies of pro-growth tax cuts and spending restraint is the best policy to combat the deficit," said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, a conservative advocacy group. "If Friedman sees that, he can be the leader of the band for both the deficit hawks and the supply siders. Bush already gets it, so if Friedman sees it there's no conflict."
But some conservatives were lobbying the White House to rethink the choice of Mr. Friedman and turn to an unquestioned supporter of tax cuts. 
"Friedman will go out on the campaign trail and on TV to make the case for tax cuts," Mr. Moore said. "The problem is that he's not a passionate believer in these ideas."
Mr. Moore said his group and others were "pushing pretty hard on it," especially after Mr. Bush's selection on Monday of John W. Snow as Treasury secretary. Like Mr. Friedman, Mr. Snow, the chairman of the CSX Corporation, has a long record of advocating a policy of balancing the budget, a stance that many supply siders view as tantamount to opposing tax cuts.
Other conservative activists said they were pressing Vice President Dick Cheney, whom they viewed as their strongest advocate within the administration, to reconsider the choice of Mr. Friedman. Mr. Cheney's office declined to comment.
Some Republican strategists said the disagreements over the composition of his economic team masked Mr. Bush's clear embrace of "pro-growth" tax-cutting policies, to use the term preferred by supply siders. Mr. Bush, they say, believes tax cuts will help strengthen the sluggish economy for his re-election campaign and create a strong foundation for the economy in the long run.
"Bush is a very good politician who understands that pocketbook issues carry the day in most elections, and he doesn't want to run for re-election on the defensive," said Scott Reed, a Republican strategist. "Bush is going to come down firmly on a pro-growth strategy because it has both short and long-term benefits. The green-eyeshade guys are going to lose."
Given the clarity of Mr. Bush's position, Mr. Reed said, members of his new economic team "will leave any ideological baggage they have at the door."
People who know Mr. Friedman said that he was working on a plan to divest himself of investments estimated in the hundreds of millions of dollars and that he had expressed no inclination to withdraw. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); INTEREST RATES (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FRIEDMAN, STEPHEN; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



351 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Carter Accepts Nobel and Gives Message on Iraq 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: OSLO, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
With a broad smile and an air of satisfaction, former President Jimmy Carter accepted the Nobel Peace Prize today, then used the vaunted platform to try to steer events away from an armed conflict in Iraq.
 Mr. Carter's speech, during a gilded ceremony here that represented a high point in his extraordinary life journey, included a warning to Baghdad that it meet the United Nations Security Council's demand for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction. 
 "The world insists that this be done," he said. Excerpts, Page A14. 
But his speech also seemed to have a message, more implicit than explicit, for the Bush administration, which had talked in the past about waging war against Iraq without United Nations backing and had framed such an engagement as a safeguard against future threats to the United States.
"It is clear that global challenges must be met by an emphasis on peace, in harmony with others, with strong alliances and international consensus," Mr. Carter said. "Imperfect as it may be, there is no doubt that this can best be done through the United Nations.
"For powerful countries to adopt a principle of preventive war," he later added, "may well set an example that can have catastrophic consequences."
Although the former president spoke broadly and did not link those comments to the possibility of a military strike against Iraq, the relevance was unmistakable. His remarks came at a time of keen international tensions over the situation, and were delivered from a world podium as tall, in symbolic terms, as any leader could hope to command.
Two months ago, when the prize committee announced Mr. Carter as the winner of this year's award, the citation praised him as an advocate for peace during a period "marked by threats of the use of power."
The committee chairman, Gunnar Berge, went further, telling reporters that the selection of Mr. Carter, who had been publicly critical of the Bush administration's aggressive posture toward Iraq, "should be interpreted as a criticism of the line that the current administration has taken."
But that was not the main reason the committee cited. It referred to Mr. Carter's role, as president, in helping to forge the Camp David accord between Israel and Egypt in 1978.
It also noted his ambitious humanitarian work since he left the White House in 1981 and founded the Carter Center, a private foundation in Atlanta dedicated to promoting peace. In poor and troubled nations around the globe, Mr. Carter, 78, has fought disease, built houses, monitored elections and prodded dictators to respect human rights.
To Mr. Carter and his closest aides, the award also seemed to represent cause for hope that his years in the White House, dragged down by the Iranian hostage crisis and runaway inflation, would be viewed more favorably over time. In the days leading up to the award ceremony, they occasionally revisited and sought to recast his administration's record.
"I think any objective analyst would recognize that we had one of the toughest and most potentially unpopular agendas in history," Mr. Carter said in a telephone interview late last week, shortly before he left Atlanta for Oslo.
He mentioned his battles for a Palestinian homeland, normalized relations with China and energy conservation, all of which became more widely accepted ideas during subsequent administrations.
The former president also said that while he may now be held in higher regard by many people than he was two decades ago, "I haven't changed, as far as I can tell."
In presenting the Nobel medal to Mr. Carter today, Mr. Berge said, "Carter's principal concern was to do what he felt was right, even when it was not the smartest political step to take."
Mr. Carter is only the third American president, after Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, which was first awarded in 1901.
The honor clearly elated him. He traveled to Norway with about 80 friends and relatives, and he beamed early this afternoon as trumpet blasts heralded his arrival in the grand auditorium of Oslo City Hall, which was bedecked with yellow and orange flowers.
After the American soprano Jessye Norman sang several songs in his honor, he silently blew her a kiss.
In his roughly 20-minute speech, he denounced what he called "the growing chasm between the richest and poorest people on earth" and beseeched rich nations "to share with others an appreciable part of our excessive wealth."
He implored Israel to heed United Nations Resolution 242, which he said called for Israel to withdraw from occupied territories.
"There is no other mandate whose implementation could more profoundly improve international relations," Mr. Carter said.
Aides said his speech was not intended as a direct commentary on the possibility of war with Iraq. They also said his repeated statements about international consensus and the importance of the United Nations could be seen as an endorsement of the Bush administration's current cooperation with the United Nations Security Council.
But those statements also seemed to reflect his previously stated misgivings about the Bush administration's sometimes unilateralist tendencies.
"Great American power and responsibility are not unprecedented, and have been used with restraint and widespread benefit in the past," Mr. Carter said.
"War may sometimes be a necessary evil," he later added. "But no matter how necessary, it is always evil, never a good. We will not learn how to live together in peace by killing each other's children."
In a subsequent interview with CNN from the stage of the auditorium, Mr. Carter said that if international inspectors deemed Iraq to be in violation of the Security Council mandate against weapons of mass destruction, a military strike would not, at that point, be unprovoked.
But, seemingly questioning the need for it, he also said he did not believe that Iraq currently represented a direct threat to the United States.
"We should concentrate first on the obvious threat around the world from Al Qaeda," he said.
Mr. Carter almost received the peace prize in 1978, along with Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt and Menachem Begin of Israel, in recognition for brokering the peace treaty between them. But he had not been nominated in time.
Asked during the CNN interview if that had bothered him, he said, "It was hard for me to understand."
Then, grinning about it now, he added, "I have to admit: I really wanted to earn the Nobel Peace Prize."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jimmy Carter greeted a procession outside the Grand Hotel in Oslo yesterday before becoming the third president to receive the Nobel Peace Prize. (Pool photo by Erlend Aas)(pg. A1); Jimmy Carter received the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize from the chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, Gunnar Berge, in Oslo yesterday. In a speech, he said that peace is best achieved through the United Nations. (Pool photo by Bjoern Sigurdsoen)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (93%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); DISARMAMENT (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (50%); ELECTION MONITORING (50%) NOBEL PRIZES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (94%) BRUNI, FRANK; CARTER, JIMMY; BERGE, GUNNAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); NORWAY (90%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%) IRAQ 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



352 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ALLIES; 
Turk Offers Partial Support on Iraq in Meeting With Bush

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
President Bush appeared to win qualified support today from the leader of Turkey's governing party for the use of the country's air bases to attack Iraq, senior administration officials said.
 The understanding with Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of the Justice and Development Party, could enable the United States to open a northern front that would compel President Saddam Hussein to divide his forces. It came as Mr. Erdogan, a moderate Muslim, visited the White House and promoted his credentials to President Bush. 
 In a speech before the meeting, Mr. Erdogan said, "Turkey's preference is for war to be the last resort." But he added that "if Saddam Hussein's administration continues to protect developments which threaten world peace then Turkey will give the necessary support" for the implementation of the United Nations resolution on Iraq. That resolution threatens "serious consequences" if Baghdad fails to make a fully current and accurate declaration of its banned weapons. 
White House officials were careful, in both their public and private statements, to avoid any discussion of specific commitments from Mr. Erdogan, whose party leads the fragile coalition that came to power in Turkish elections last month. They are highly aware, they said, that Mr. Erdogan is under enormous public pressure at home to keep the United States out of the bases it used in 1991 during the Persian Gulf war.
While Mr. Erdogan's statement seemed to suggest that Turkey might make its bases available, the degree to which it would allow American forces to use its territory as a major staging area in any confrontation with Iraq still appeared unsettled.
A senior administration official said that during the meeting with President Bush in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Mr. Erdogan gave "no commitments," but that Mr. Bush was careful not to be too specific when asking for help in basing troops and aircraft. "They talked about bases," the official said, "and I would characterize the Turks as listening carefully."
Other officials said Mr. Bush's meeting -- a carefully staged "drop-by" during a long meeting conducted by Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser -- was aimed primarily at raising the stature of a Muslim leader who is still barred from serving in the Turkish government. Five years ago Mr. Erdogan was jailed for sedition, leading to the political ban. Mr. Bush, however, sees Mr. Erdogan as a pragmatist and an exemplar of how the Islamic faith and a democratic impulse can coexist.
For his part, Mr. Bush today pressed the case for Turkey's entry into the European Union and promised wide-ranging economic support. Mr. Bush has already called European leaders and pressed Turkey's case for admission to the union, which took a step forward today when European foreign ministers endorsed a plan to open talks on the subject with Turkey in three years.
"We're impressed by your leadership and your party's strong victory," Mr. Bush said today, clearly warming to the task of endorsing an Islamic victory. "We thank you very much for your commitment to democracy and freedom." 
In return for whatever cooperation he extends in the confrontation with Iraq, Mr. Erdogan has made his own needs clear: Washington's willingness to strongarm its European allies to speed consideration of Turkey's application to enter the European Union. "Undoubtedly, we see our bid to European Union membership as the most important modernization project of our country since the establishment of the republic," Mr. Erdogan said today. "And this will serve as a great jump-start for democracy, enhancement of democracy." 
With the White House and Turkish officials acutely aware that reporters would ask about Turkey's commitments in the event of a war, Mr. Bush and his guest took no questions.
The American endorsement of European Union membership -- an issue on which the United States has no vote and very little say -- comes at a critical moment for Turkey. Last month, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the head of the European Union's constitutional convention, said Turkey was not truly a European nation, and suggested that its entry to the group would mark the dilution of the European Union. He has since backed away from those comments.
Asked about the issue today, Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said: "The president differs strongly with anybody in Europe who has suggested that because of Turkey's background Turkey would not qualify. The president does not think that that should be a disqualification." 
Mr. Erdogan was also eager to set aside anxieties about an Islamic-based party taking control of Turkey's coalition government. He requested a breakfast meeting today with American Jewish leaders, and used it to send a message that he would not seek to alter Turkey's unusually close ties to Israel.
One of the Jewish leaders at the breakfast said of Mr. Erdogan, "It was clear that he wanted to reassure friends of Israel and the U.S. that there will not be a reversal of Turkey's special relationship with Israel," adding that Mr. Erdogan "was very impressive." 
American officials have also talked about expanded economic ties to Turkey. The administration's willingness to support an International Monetary Fund bailout of Turkey during its economic troubles earlier in the year has stood in stark contrast to its reluctance to provide comparable aid to other nations.
By deploying American forces in or near the Turkish border, the United States hopes to fend off any Iraqi attack on ethnic Kurds in the region. That would defuse, they hope, trouble between Turkey's own Kurdish minority and the Iraqi Kurds. 
Last week the deputy defense secretary, Paul D. Wolfowitz, visiting Turkey to pave the way for the visit today, said that any major American troop presence in Northern Iraq would have to come through Turkey. "There is no other option," he said.
Turkish officials have repeatedly told the United States, however, that a large American troop presence would not be tolerated by the Turkish people. They note that 83 percent of Turks polled recently by the Pew Research Center, as part of a study of foreign attitudes toward the United States, oppose allowing the United States to use Turkish bases to wage any military action against Iraq.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Two articles on Wednesday -- one about the efforts of Greek and Turkish Cypriots to mend their divisions and one about President Bush's meeting with the leader of Turkey's governing party -- referred incorrectly to the Turkish government. (Articles on Dec. 5, 8 and 9 about Turkey's role in preparations for a possible war on Iraq also included the error.) Turkey is governed by the Justice and Development Party alone; the party won an overwhelming election victory in November.



GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of Turkey's governing Justice and Development Party, President Bush and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, during a meeting yesterday in the Roosevelt Room of the White House. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); DESERT STORM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); RELIGION (76%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ERDOGAN, RECEP TAYYIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); TURKEY (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) IRAQ; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



353 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Ex-Chairman of Big Board Selected to Lead S.E.C.
President Bush selected William H. Donaldson, a former head of the New York Stock Exchange, founder of a brokerage firm and a friend of the Bush family, to be the next chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Bush also made a policy U-turn about the budget of the S.E.C. and announced that he would support an increase for 2004.
 The selection of Mr. Donaldson and the announcement of the proposed budget increase appeared to be aimed at assuring that the S.E.C. regains its footing by the 2004 elections. The moves followed criticism that the agency's turmoil have been caused by a leadership crisis, White House neglect and a lack of adequate resources and staff. Page A1. 

Mr. Bush delayed announcing his choice for chief economic policy adviser, providing an opening for conservative critics of the leading candidate, Stephen Friedman, to attack him as insufficiently committed to tax cuts. A26.

G.M. Ends Hughes-EchoStar Deal
General Motors ended its attempt to sell its Hughes Electronics unit to EchoStar Communications, two months after federal and state regulators moved to block the deal. The decision opens the door for Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation to revive its long-frustrated efforts to enter the satellite-television business in the United States. C12.

Northrop Grumman said that it had reached an agreement with the Justice Department that would allow it to acquire TRW. C4.

Internet Opens Dow Jones to Suit
The Australian High Court ruled that a local businessman could bring libel charges against Dow Jones in a local court, a decision that reignited publishers' fears that posting material on their Web sites could leave them open to libel prosecution in any country. C6.

$3 Billion Charge for Schlumberger
Schlumberger, the oilfield service provider, said that it would cut 3,300 jobs and take $3.17 billion in charges in its fourth quarter. C2.

Seagate Raises $870 Million in Sale
Seagate Technology, which makes disk drives, raised $870 million in an initial offering. The company sold 72.5 million shares at $12 each, below the proposed range of $13 to $15. C5.

Pritzker Family Fights Over Empire
A lawsuit has brought unwanted attention to a plan to divide the $15 billion Pritzker empire, taking public significant assets like the Hyatt hotel chain and handing 11 family members $1.4 billion. A1.

A New Type of Stem Cell Is Licensed
A biotechnology company, Athersys Inc., has obtained the rights to a new type of stem cell that has the potential to defuse the debate over the use of those cells in research. C8.

Markets End Drop and Finish Higher
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 100.85 points to close at 8,574.26. The Nasdaq climbed 23.62 to 1,390.76. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 12.45 points to 904.45. C12.

A Big Night for 'The Sopranos'
Sunday night's finale of "The Sopranos" had higher ratings than every broadcast network's offering during the 75 minutes that it was on, even though HBO is available in only a third as many homes. The episode was seen by about 12.5 million viewers. Only this season's premiere, which was watched by 13.4 million viewers, attracted more viewers. C6.

Co-Chief Resigns at Fiat in Shake-up
The resignation of a chief executive at Fiat is the latest in a series of shake-ups as the company tries to stanch $2 billion in losses.
World Business, Section W.

New Offices in Oregon for Adidas
James H. Winkler, a developer in Portland, Ore., is putting the finishing touches on the Adidas headquarters, which he has converted from a hospital complex into a high-technology, design-conscious and pedestrian-oriented office. Commercial Real Estate. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,574.26 up 100.85Nasdaq composite -- 1,390.76 up 23.6210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.05% up 0.02The euro -- $1.0091 down 0.0015The dollar -- 123.71 yen up 0.38 Graph tracks share prices of EchoStar Communications for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LITIGATION (87%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); LIBEL & SLANDER (70%); TAX LAW (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); BIOLOGY (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); HOTEL CHAINS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (83%); NEWS CORP (82%); SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (81%); ATHERSYS INC (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (54%); SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY SAS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); STX (NASDAQ) (81%); ATHX (NASDAQ) (61%); GM (NYSE) (55%); NOC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002 



354 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SEABORNE TRADE; 
Warnings From Al Qaeda Stir Fear That Terrorists May Attack Oil Tankers

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: ABOARD PETRO RANGER, in the Strait of Malacca, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
As the distant jungle shore of Malaysia faded from green to gray to black at sunset, Noer Rahman put a bright red fire ax on the back deck of this aging tanker, then tied two high-pressure fire hoses to the stern handrail and turned them on.
 Mr. Rahman, an experienced Indonesian sailor, was getting ready to fight pirates and terrorists, dangers especially great in this important waterway, the fastest route around the southernmost tip of continental Asia. 
 A recent audiotape believed to have been made by Osama bin Laden praised and seemed to take responsibility for a suicide attack two months ago in which a speedboat packed with explosives rammed and crippled a French tanker, the Limburg, off Yemen. Other leaders of Al Qaeda have vowed to cut the "economic lifelines" of the world's industrialized societies. 
The threats have focused the attention of intelligence agencies and marine police worldwide on the vulnerability of tankers. Representatives of most of the world's seagoing nations are meeting in London to discuss how to keep ships safe from the long-term problem of piracy and the new risks of terrorism.
"With the attack on the Limburg, commercial vessels, especially vulnerable vessels like tankers, are terrorist targets," said Pootengal Mukundan, the director of the International Maritime Bureau, a United Nations affiliate that works with Interpol to combat seaborne crime.
Nowhere has the concern been more acute than here in the Strait of Malacca, between Malaysia and Indonesia. A quarter of the world's trade passes through the strait. That includes half of all sea shipments of oil, bound for East Asia or sometimes the United States, and two-thirds of the world's shipments of liquefied natural gas.
More pirate attacks occur in Indonesian waters than anywhere else in the world. The pirates have spies in ports to identify valuable targets, and sometimes confederates aboard as well. 
Since Indonesia has many radical Muslim groups with a history of violence, which have been linked to the bombing in Bali in October, law enforcement and intelligence officials worry that terrorists may tap the pirates' expertise to mount attacks on ships in the region.
Smaller tankers like this 420-foot-long vessel, making slow trips through the strait while fully laden with valuable cargos, run the greatest danger, Mr. Mukundan said. 
The big fear is that Al Qaeda might seize a ship and crash it into another vessel or into a refinery or port.
Singapore, where the Petro Ranger started its current journey, has the world's second-busiest port, after Hong Kong's, so its government has taken the threat of terrorism very seriously.
As the ship began inching away from the jetties of Singapore's immense refinery, where it took on three million gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel, a brown Singaporean F-4 Skyhawk fighter flew overhead on combat air patrol, a precaution started after the attacks on Sept. 11 of last year. 
A Singaporean Hawkeye airborne surveillance plane circled twice over the refinery in the next hour, while a half-dozen fast patrol boats with deck guns and a small gray warship cruised the anchorage. One of the patrol boats escorted the Petro Ranger.
But once vessels enter the Strait of Malacca they are essentially on their own. An hour from Singapore, the Petro Ranger peacefully steamed past Iyu Kecil, a jungle-covered Indonesian island that Mr. Mukundan described as a base for an organized crime gang that has been hijacking small tankers to sell the cargos.
Three hours later, the Petro Ranger sailed past Laboh Point, Malaysia, where the tanker's crew had a close call just two months ago. A watchman on the deck of the Petro Ranger spotted a fast, low boat with no lights within 100 yards of the stern. 
The tanker's bells sounded to wake the unarmed crew, a radio call went out to the Malaysian coast guard and Istaque Hossain, the second officer, aimed a spotlight at the craft to signal to the occupants that they would not take the Petro Ranger unawares.
The spotlight revealed the boat to be packed with crouching men. "All of them were squatting, coming very close in masks and full black body suits," recalled Fong Chung-chen, the Petro Ranger's Malaysian chief officer. After it was caught in the light, the boat sheered off and vanished.
Armed with machetes, swords, even assault rifles and hand grenades, pirates often climb up the stern of a vessel, using grappling hooks and rope or sometimes shinnying up thick bamboo poles with hooks at the top. Pirates frequently choose the stern because it is low and because they are unlikely to be seen by officers on the bridge watching the sea ahead. 
Once aboard they try to disable a ship's radio systems before the crew can send a distress signal to local coast guard units.
Experienced sailors say pirates consider fire axes and hoses to be fair defensive weapons, unlike guns, for which they often punish ship crews. The axes are used to sever the pirates' grappling hooks, and the hoses spraying water off the stern are supposed to make the pirate boats wet and slippery platforms from which to mount an attack.
The pirate boats are typically equipped with several outboard motors on the back, allowing them to go up to three times as fast as the tankers, which lumber along at 11 knots, the equivalent of 13 land miles an hour. The pirates also use a low-tech version of stealth technology: they choose boats made of wood, which are hard to spot on radar.
Laws in many ports bar the equipping of tankers with deck guns. Many companies, including Petroships Pte. Ltd., which operates the single-hull Petro Ranger and seven newer tankers, also ban the crews from carrying guns.
"Let's say we shoot at them," Mr. Fong said. "When they board they would kill us all. Once they board we are finished -- if we lock the doors, they break the glass" of the windows.
Four and a half years ago, a dozen pirates swarmed aboard this tanker off the eastern coast of Malaysia and took the crew prisoner. The pirates sailed to China to try to sell the gasoline and diesel fuel, then worth about $2 million at wholesale prices. But a Chinese marine police vessel discovered the tanker and freed the crew.
The International Maritime Bureau's records show a decline in reported attacks against vessels in the Strait of Malacca in the last two years. 
Bureau officials say that partly reflects the fact that fewer captains are reporting incidents, but also some progress in combating piracy.
China has begun keeping pirates out of its waters, notably by executing members of one gang that murdered the entire crew of a vessel. Malaysia has purchased more fast patrol boats and has identified some of the ringleaders of pirate gangs based in nearby countries, said Muhamad Muda, the commander of Malaysia's marine police.
"We gave them the warning that if they ever came into Malaysian waters we will apprehend them and eliminate them," he said.
Indonesia, struggling with a crippled economy, has proven unable to mount such an ambitious effort. Intelligence officials say most pirates are based on the Indonesian side of the strait and buy the collusion of villagers by sharing their loot.
A few shipowners, notably Petroships' chairman, Alan H. J. Chan, say efforts to date have been completely inadequate, and have begun calling for the formation of a small military force, operating under a license from the United Nations, to patrol the strait. 
"A big project may cost millions but save billions, and save lives, too," Mr. Chan said.
But Malaysia and Indonesia oppose the idea, arguing that intelligence gathering and law enforcement ashore are just as important.
Additional patrols might discourage pirates but will not stop terrorists willing to die for their cause, Mr. Mukundan said. The International Maritime Bureau has begun calling for the creation of special shipping lanes reserved for commercial vessels in waterways like this one, with military force used to exclude fishing boats and pleasure craft.
"The only way to stop it is to blow it out of the water before it hits the tanker," Mr. Mukundan said. The United States and other countries have been leery of such a drastic response.
By 9 p.m. on the second day of its voyage, the Petro Ranger was chugging across calm seas in moonless, utter darkness. The nearest land was Tuan Point, Malaysia, where the captain of a fishing trawler was kidnapped by pirates in broad daylight. He was later released unhurt.
Aboard the Petro Ranger, Mr. Fong fretted over the radar. A long, thin fishing boat was barely visible by its navigation lights, yet the radar showed no trace of it. 
When Mr. Fong turned up the radar, it showed a mass of reflections from every ripple on the sea, and still no boat was discernible. The boat quietly passed around the stern of the Petro Ranger, where it unexpectedly turned up on the radar, and then sailed off into the distance.
Two hours later the Petro Ranger's 31-year-old engines began spewing clouds of sparks because of a fuel mixture problem. The bridge officers were alarmed that sparks might blow onto the cargo tanks, or that pirates might see the sparks as a sign of engine distress and pounce. It took an hour for the ship's engineers to fix the problem.
After traversing the narrowest and most dangerous 130 miles of the strait, the Petro Ranger safely sailed up an estuary and docked at 6 a.m. at Port Klang, the main port for the Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur. Mohda Hadapi, the Malaysian helmsman, was relieved after a nerve-racking night of scanning a pitch-black sea.
His wife cries each time he leaves, he said. "Pirates and now terrorists -- after January, I'm going to sign off, maybe find a job ashore," he added.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about fears of terrorist attacks on oil tankers misspelled the given name of the director of the International Maritime Bureau, which works with Interpol to combat seaborne crime. He is Pottengal Mukundan, not Pootengal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Petro Ranger, a tanker carrying three million gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel, approaching pirate-infested islands in the Strait of Malacca. (Keith Bradsher/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "Dangerous Strait"The Strait of Malacca ranks second among world oil shipping lanes. FLOW OF OIL THROUGH SHIPPING LANESestimates in millions of barrels per day 1. Strait of Hormuz: 132. Strait of Malacca: 10.33. Suez Canal/Sumed Pipeline: 3.84. Bab el Mandeb*: 3.23.35. Bosporus+: 2 *2000 estimate+2001 estimate Map of the world highlighting the oil shipping lanes listed above. Map of Malaysia highlighting the Strait of Malacca. (Source: Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); MARITIME PIRACY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); GASOLINE (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); DIESEL FUEL (64%); BULK SHIPPING (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MALAYSIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002 



355 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Cleaning Up Malaysia's Bad Debts 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia 

 BODY:
Mohamed Azman Yahya is hard to keep up with. A fast talker with a rapid-fire intellect, he is also an avid amateur racecar driver.
 In Asia's financial community, though, Mr. Azman, 38, is best known for his speedy cleanup of Malaysia's debt problems. And he is already moving on to run his own company, having helped rid his country's banks of almost $13 billion in bad loans in only four years. 
 "I always intended to go back into the private sector," said Mr. Azman, chairman of Pengurusan Danaharta, the agency handling the debt crisis. Mr. Azman also served as head of the corporate debt restructuring committee and, after a government takeover, the deeply indebted conglomerate UEM-Renong.
Asia, particularly Japan, is famous for debt crises. Cleaning up the morass of bad debt means severing the ties among politicians, bankers and executives who have defined the region's development for 50 years.
Investors once considered Malaysia the epitome of such "crony capitalism," and Malaysia's prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, its unrepentant adherent.
Yet even as Mr. Mahathir thumbed his nose at the International Monetary Fund, he and his officials were apparently cultivating younger technocrats who could run Malaysia Inc. without owning it. With Mr. Azman at their helm, they have nearly completed what economists say is a primer for countries in need of overhaul.
"The Malaysians got this thing right," said Manu Bhaskaran, the Singapore-based partner at the Centennial Group economic consultancy in Washington. 
Mr. Azman is on the verge of accomplishing what his Asian counterparts can only dream of: without taking over or closing a single bank, he forced banks to write off their biggest nonperforming loans and averted a credit crisis. Now, without producing widespread layoffs or selling chunks of the nation to foreigners, he is selling off those loans.
Malaysia's troubles reached critical mass in 1997, when the Asian crisis washed south from Thailand. After growth in lending of 70 percent a year to finance the purchase of stocks, office buildings and hotels, more than a quarter of Malaysia's bank loans slipped into default.
Malaysia's leaders responded by setting up a triumvirate of agencies. One, Danamodal, pumped cash into the banks, while the corporate debt restructuring committee helped companies rework their debts. 
The most urgent task, however, belonged to Danaharta: mop up the bad loans before they forced banks to stop lending new funds. In May 1998, the government announced that Mr. Azman, a little-known banker with few apparent political connections, would lead the agency.
The son of a small-business man, Mr. Azman grew up in one of Malaysia's most conservative Muslim states -- a verse from the Koran hangs prominently over his desk. 
After earning a degree from the London School of Economics, Mr. Azman returned and by 1994 had become Malaysia's youngest bank chief executive. All the while, he pursued a passion for motorcycle racing. After a serious accident, he switched to racing cars.
To build the bad-debt agency, Mr. Azman assembled a team of five bankers that spent three months studying other countries' experiences, including the successes of the Resolution Trust Corporation in the United States and the frustrations of Thailand and Indonesia. 
Danaharta's counterpart in Thailand closed 56 failing finance companies and nationalized 2 banks. But in its haste to raise funds, it sold the finance companies' assets at just 25 cents on the dollar, igniting political protests.
Thai banks were left to decide whether to sell their bad loans. Most, hoping payments would flow when the economy recovered, held on, only to have more loans go bad. When they tried to foreclose, borrowers tied them up in courts. Seeing how easy it was, many healthy borrowers defaulted as well. Thailand is now replacing the agency with a new one modeled on Danaharta.
Indonesia's Bank Restructuring Agency, or I.B.R.A., closed 66 banks and took over 14, becoming the country's biggest property owner. But corrupt courts have enabled borrowers to elude foreclosure, and political interference and xenophobia have hobbled efforts to return I.B.R.A.'s assets to the private sector.
Mr. Azman is the first to admit that his task was less formidable. Malaysia was never so short of cash that it had to sell assets at any price. And its capital controls, though reviled by investors, kept the financial system flush with cash. 
Malaysia's banks were also never as deeply mired in bad debts, and because Malaysia had long before banned them from lending to affiliates, they were not as intertwined with their borrowers. Equally important, Mr. Mahathir's government avoided the kind of political upheaval that seized Indonesia and Thailand.
As a result, Danaharta never had to take over banks. Instead, it offered to buy any bad loan over 5 million ringgit ($1.3 million) at a price it determined and pay the bank 80 percent of anything it recovered above that. If banks declined, they were required to write the loan's value down to Danaharta's offer price anyway.
"We wanted to make sure banks that were reckless in lending were punished," Mr. Azman said, but that nonperforming loans "remained at reasonable levels." Danaharta bought 19.8 billion ringgit ($5.2 billion) in bad debt for 46 cents on the dollar.
The government enacted the Danaharta Act to enable the agency to take over management of debtors or foreclose without going to court.
"The main reason for our success," Mr. Azman said, "was the strength of the Danaharta Act."
By 2000, Mr. Azman's agency was entertaining officials from bad-debt agencies around the region, as well as from the World Bank, the I.M.F. and the Treasury Department.
In 2001, Mr. Mahathir chose Mr. Azman to carry out a chore investors and analysts had demanded for years: the purge of Halim Saad, one of the nation's biggest tycoons, from the helm of United Engineers Malaysia and its debt-laden affiliate Renong. Accounting for 5 percent of all Malaysian bank loans, Renong loomed like a tsunami over Danaharta's efforts. 
Mr. Azman engineered a buyout of Mr. Halim and was then named a director of the newly combined UEM-Renong. 
The next month, Mr. Mahathir ordered him to take charge of the corporate debt restructuring committee. Within a year, the committee had increased the amount of debt successfully restructured by 65 percent. Declaring its work finished, the committee disbanded this summer.
Danaharta is also winding down, and plans to close by 2005. Despite a global downturn, the agency forecasts that it will recover 57 percent of the value of its loans.
Mr. Azman plans to leave Danaharta next spring to run his own company, a small financial software consulting firm called Symphony Global. While he may be willing to leave government to politicians, analysts and investors are waiting to see whether Malaysia's government will leave banking to bankers. 
"I think they've done a good job," said J. Mark Mobius, president of the Templeton Emerging Market Fund. "But embedded in the political system there is a natural tendency for favoritism towards certain groups, political bodies and so forth. More has to be done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohamed Azman Yahya, chairman of Pengurusan Danaharta, assembled a team that studied other countries' debt experiences, including the successes of Resolution Trust in the United States. (Tara Sosrowardoyo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%) PENGURUSAN DANAHARTA 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; AZMAN YAHYA, MOHAMED 

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (73%) MALAYSIA (98%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) MALAYSIA

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



356 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: BLOCKS; 
Public Space, Private Sales, at a Price

BYLINE:  By David W. Dunlap 

 BODY:
UNLIKE sidewalk vendors on Fifth Avenue, Henri Bendel executives probably don't spend much time looking over their shoulders to see if the law is around. But it could be argued that they are doing much the same thing as the peddlers: taking over public space without authorization to show off their goods.
 What appears to be the forecourt of Bendel's flagship store -- with makeup counters in the corners and a merchandise island piled high with teddy bears, snow domes, nutcrackers, ceramic Santas and penny-candy Christmas trees -- is actually a public atrium. 
 It is supposed to be retail-free under the terms of a permit issued in 1988 to allow development of the 712 Fifth Avenue office tower, at 56th Street. Bendel occupies much of the base of the tower, behind the facades of the former Rizzoli and Coty Buildings, both landmarks. 
Bendel's selling floors extend from the atrium, where visitors are meant to enjoy views of subtly sculptural windows installed in 1910 by the French glass master Ren Lalique. Today, Lalique's sinuously braided vines are only partly visible. The middle windows are all but obscured by fabric screens along a balcony used by the Garren salon at Bendel.
Requests for comment this week from the Limited Inc., Bendel's parent company, were not answered.
Bendel's apparent failure to comply with the permit was noted as a "commercial takeover" in the book "Privately Owned Public Space: The New York City Experience" (John Wiley & Sons), by Jerold S. Kayden, the City Planning Department and the Municipal Art Society. That was two years ago. Little seems to have changed since then.
A commercialized atrium is scarcely the gravest problem facing public space in New York, but it does underscore the pitfall of trading municipal approvals for privately financed public amenities. Without the resources to enforce the terms of these deals, the benefits may end up flowing in one direction only.
Each small erosion of the public sphere -- padlocks on passageways, advertising placards wrapped around parking meters, open-air restaurants spreading into plazas, corporate logos displayed on lamppost banners -- contributes to a growing sense that the city belongs less to citizens than to security guards and marketers.
The point, though, is not that Bendel has ruined the atrium. To the contrary, it has enlivened the space. The enormous wreath suspended over the main floor obviously delights arriving shoppers. The Christmas merchandise is a pleasure to look at, and the makeup-demonstration counters contribute a welcome sense of bustle.
But they are simply not supposed to be there, Mr. Kayden said.
"A continuing lack of compliance with legal obligations by public-space users and owners, especially well-known ones, can undermine the significant role played by public spaces," said Mr. Kayden, an associate professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, whose book documented and analyzed more than 500 public spaces created in return for zoning concessions and bonuses.
In 1988, the developers of 712 Fifth Avenue agreed in writing that the "ground floor of the Fifth Avenue atrium at all times shall be restricted to unobstructed lobby use and may not be used for any retail sales activities."
They also agreed that on the second through fourth floors there would be an "unobstructed viewing path" around the openings to the floors below "to ensure viewing access to the Fifth Avenue atrium and the architectural glass" -- that is, the Lalique windows.
Mr. Kayden recalled that the atrium had an ethereal quality before Bendel moved in. "Today, it's unrecognizable as a public space," he said. "I don't think the department store needs to be swept out of every square foot, but I do think it needs to be made legal."
THERE are precedents for trying to strike such a balance. Two years ago, the city sued Worldwide Plaza on Eighth Avenue. Planners said the seating arrangement and signs there conveyed the impression that chairs and tables intended for the public could only be used by customers of the restaurants on 49th and 50th Streets.
The case has been resolved, said a spokeswoman for the City Planning Department, by permitting the operation of two open-air cafes while also requiring improved landscaping, increased public seating and a guarantee that half the seats around the restaurant kiosks would be unrestricted.
David Karnovsky, counsel to the planning department, said the Bendel situation had not escaped the city's attention but that, since resources are limited, enforcement efforts had to be chosen carefully. 
"Our primary focus is on situations where there has been a total denial of access," he said. "That will always be our top priority."
As for Bendel, Mr. Karnovsky said, the situation might be resolved through negotiations that acknowledged that this is a public space surrounded by a department store. "Of course, we would work with them and consider anything they'd want to propose that was reasonable," he said. "They have not come in."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Although the atrium of Bendel's store on Fifth Avenue is designated public space by a 1988 city permit, the store is selling seasonal merchandise in the center and cosmetics in the corners. Third-floor windows by the French glass master Ren Lalique are only partly visible. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); TAKEOVERS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); CHRISTMAS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CITIES (64%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; COSMETICS AND TOILETRIES; GLASS; WINDOWS; PERFUMES AND FRAGRANCES 

COMPANY: LIMITED BRANDS INC (67%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BENDEL'S (DEPARTMENT STORE) 

TICKER: LTD (NYSE) (67%); JWB (NYSE) (54%); JWA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (67%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (67%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; LALIQUE, RENE (1860-1945) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



357 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Schr der Says He Won't Quit Despite Strife In His Party 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Eleven weeks ago, Chancellor Gerhard Schr der confounded the skeptics by holding on to his job. Today, he was forced to deny rumors that he would leave it.
 Mr. Schr der said he had no plans to resign, despite reports that he made a veiled threat to quit at a meeting of his Social Democratic Party on Monday. The chancellor has been buffeted by dissent within the party, which has seen a vertiginous drop in popularity since its narrow election victory in September. 
 His coalition partner, the Green Party, has added to the impression of disarray by declaring that Germany should not grant the United States unrestricted access to its airspace and military bases for an attack on Iraq, unless it received a mandate from the United Nations.
Two weeks ago, Mr. Schr der said he would give the Pentagon the freedom to fly in German skies and to move troops in and out of American bases here. His gesture was seen as an effort to patch up relations with Washington, which frayed after he opposed a war.
"The chancellor won't leave the ship," Mr. Schr der said to reporters in Berlin. "All who attach hopes to that will be disappointed, and all those who would have been disappointed will be happy."
He did not comment on whether he had threatened to quit at the party meeting. But he made it clear that he would no longer brook public dissent from party officials on issues like taxes, where his own zigzag policy has incurred the wrath of voters.
"One can debate things internally but should address the outside world with one voice," he said.
German newspapers have seized on the squabbles as evidence that Mr. Schr der's grip is weakening. Some speculated that unless his fortunes improved, he might hand over power to his economics and labor minister, Wolfgang Clement.
Support for Mr. Schr der's party has tumbled 10 percentage points since the election, to 28 percent, the swiftest decline in postwar history. In part, that is a reflection of Germany's moribund economy. But voters also blame the chancellor for breaking a pledge not to raise taxes.
"It's incredible, but it shows you the public mood," said Reinhard Schlinkert, the chairman of Dimap, a polling firm in Bonn. "Voters are in a state of uncertainty."
Mr. Schlinkert said he doubted that the chancellor would resign so soon after his re-election, though there is a precedent in German politics. In 1966 Ludwig Erhard, a Christian Democrat, resigned after a year in office, in the face of seemingly intractable economic problems.
The more likely result of Mr. Schr der's unpopularity, Mr. Schlinkert said, will be a defeat in elections next February in the states of Hessen and Lower Saxony. 
In Lower Saxony, the chancellor's home state, the governor, Sigmar Gabriel, has become a nemesis of Mr. Schr der. A rising star within the party, he is advocating a new tax on wealthy people, despite the chancellor's opposition.
Mr. Schr der's taxes, which seek to spread the pain more evenly, have made him the target of bitter jokes, a satirical song and a campaign to send shirts to his office. The message is that the new taxes will rip the shirts off the backs of Germans.
Mr. Schr der's opposition to a war in Iraq has played better among people here. But even his small gesture to the United States of access to German airspace has drawn quibbles from the Greens.
They say it should be denied if the United States proceeds without the approval of the United Nations, even though they acknowledge that such a prospect now seems less likely. "There have been misgivings, strong misgivings," said Reinhard B tikover, one of the party leaders.
Those misgivings may deepen after a television interview today with Mr. Schr der, in which he indicated that German crews would be permitted to fly on NATO surveillance planes in the event of a war.
Mr. Schr der said Germany was not backtracking on its refusal to take part in a military campaign, because the Awacs planes would be used only to safeguard NATO territory and airspace.
Despite their cavils, most politicians here said they had little choice but to support Mr. Schr der.
"The chancellor is the boss, and his voice should be the decisive one," said Dieter Wiefelsp tz, a Social Democrat legislator. "We all know we won the election thanks to him." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (78%) LANDLER, MARK; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (92%); HESSE, GERMANY (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



358 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Sticks and stones can break bones, but the wrong name can make a job hard to find.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
WHAT'S in a name? Evidently plenty if you are looking for a job.
 To test whether employers discriminate against black job applicants, Marianne Bertrand of the University of Chicago and Sendhil Mullainathan of M.I.T. conducted an unusual experiment. They selected 1,300 help-wanted ads from newspapers in Boston and Chicago and submitted multiple r sum s from phantom job seekers. The researchers randomly assigned the first names on the r sum s, choosing from one set that is particularly common among blacks and from another that is common among whites. 
 So Kristen and Tamika, and Brad and Tyrone, applied for jobs from the same pool of want ads and had equivalent r sum s. Nine names were selected to represent each category: black women, white women, black men and white men. Last names common to the racial group were also assigned. Four r sum s were typically submitted for each job opening, drawn from a reservoir of 160. Nearly 5,000 applications were submitted from mid-2001 to mid-2002. Professors Bertrand and Mullainathan kept track of which candidates were invited for job interviews. 
No single employer was sent two identical r sum s, and the names on the r sum s were randomly assigned, so applicants with black- and white-sounding names applied for the same set of jobs with the same set of r sum s. 
Apart from their names, applicants had the same experience, education and skills, so employers had no reason to distinguish among them.
The results are disturbing. Applicants with white-sounding names were 50 percent more likely to be called for interviews than were those with black-sounding names. Interviews were requested for 10.1 percent of applicants with white-sounding names and only 6.7 percent of those with black-sounding names. 
Within racial groups, applications with men's or women's names were equally likely to result in calls for interviews, providing little evidence of discrimination based on sex in these entry-level jobs.
There were significant differences in interview-request rates among the nine names associated with black women, but not among the names within each of the other groups.
At the low end, the interview-request rate was 2.2 percent for Aisha, 3.8 percent for Keisha and 5.4 percent for Tamika, compared with 9.1 percent for Kenya and Latonya and 10.5 percent for Ebony. 
Only part of this variability reflects chance differences resulting from sampling, although the authors have not been able to find a good explanation for the wide range. Thus it is important that the names chosen for black women were not uncommon; they represent 7.1 percent of all names listed on Massachusetts birth certificates for black girls from 1974 to 1979. 
The 50 percent advantage in interview requests for white-sounding names held in both Boston and Chicago, and for both men and women.
This discrepancy complements findings from earlier studies in which researchers sent a small number of matched black and white "auditors" to apply for jobs in person. Typically, though not always, the black job seekers were less likely to be invited for an interview or offered a job. 
Those findings, however, were criticized because the applicants knew the intention of the study and might have behaved differently. In addition, the auditors might not have been well matched with the jobs in question; they could have been overqualified or underqualified. 
Professors Bertrand and Mullainathan's study is less susceptible to these concerns. First, they used a large number of names and inanimate r sum s. Second, the job openings involved administrative, sales, clerical and managerial positions, and they submitted r sum s patterned after real r sum s of people who were actually seeking similar jobs.
Their most alarming finding is that the likelihood of being called for an interview rises sharply with an applicant's credentials -- like experience and honors -- for those with white-sounding names, but much less for those with black-sounding names. A grave concern is that this phenomenon may be damping the incentives for blacks to acquire job skills, producing a self-fulfilling prophecy that perpetuates prejudice and misallocates resources. 
Two main theories explain labor market discrimination. One, known as taste-based discrimination, posits that employers -- or customers, co-workers or supervisors -- have a preference against hiring minority applicants, even if they know they are equally productive. 
The other, known as statistical discrimination, assumes that employers personally harbor no racial animus but cannot perfectly predict workers' productivity. In this case, an employer assessing an applicant would assign some weight to the average performance of the person's racial group, instead of basing the judgment solely on the individual's merits. 
A difference between these models is that employers sacrifice profits to indulge in taste-based discrimination, while, in principle, statistical discrimination, if based on accurate information, can help the bottom line. Professors Bertrand and Mullainathan cannot distinguish between the models -- and both may be applicable -- but they suspect that their finding that employers in heavily black areas of Chicago are less likely to discriminate against black-sounding names augurs for taste-based discrimination. 
Nevertheless, either rationale for discrimination is illegal and prohibited.
"That which we call a rose," Juliet said, "by any other name would smell as sweet." An organization like the Civil Rights Commission or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission could perform a service if it routinely monitored discrimination by conducting audit studies similar to Professors Bertrand and Mullainathan's.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Everything's in a Name"A recent study found that job applicants with common black names on their resumes were less likely to be called for an interview than applicants with common white names and the same qualifications. Percentage receiving interview requests COMMON WHITE NAMES Kristen: 13.6%Carrie: 13.1Laurie: 10.8Meredith: 10.6Sarah: 9.8Allison: 9.4Jill: 9.3Anne: 9.0Emily: 8.3Average: 10.3 COMMON BLACK NAMES Ebony: 10.5%Latonya: 9.1Kenya: 9.1Latoya: 8.8Tanisha: 6.3Lakisha: 5.5Tamika: 5.4Keisha: 3.8Aisha: 2.2Average: 6.9 Based on 3,761 job applications (Source: "Are Emily and Brendan More Employable than Lakisha and Jamal? A Field Experiment on Labor Market Discrimination") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); MEN (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); WRITERS (72%) LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; NAMES, PERSONAL; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (90%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



359 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: A Dependence on Tobacco 

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki has a terrible plan to balance New York State's budget: paying for continuing expenses with borrowed money. It's shocking that a man who likes to depict himself as an economic conservative would come up with such a scheme before he has even begun to talk about cutting costs or raising taxes. 
 During his re-election campaign, Mr. Pataki tried to give the impression that all the economic miseries hitting other states had bypassed New York. Now the governor has suddenly discovered a $2 billion hole in this year's $90 billion budget, with an even larger one looming next year. 
 Mr. Pataki's solution is to borrow money against the payments the tobacco industry is supposed to give the state over the next 25 years. Unlike New York City, which used tobacco money to borrow for one-time capital projects, Mr. Pataki wants to use the cash to pay this year's and perhaps next year's operating expenses. It is, as conservative politicians used to say, like taking out a loan to pay the monthly grocery bill, knowing that the same bill will be back a month later, along with a demand for payment on the loan.
Mr. Pataki balanced last year's budget with one-shot revenues and argued that it was necessary because of the 9/11 emergency. But today almost no one is expecting the quick economic turnaround he would need to make his plan work.
He wants to get approval for this borrowing as soon as possible, but the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, has balked -- a healthy reaction. Legislators need to see the entire budget plan so they can weigh all possibilities. The underlying threat from the Pataki quarters is that unless the Legislature agrees to a tobacco bailout, state funding for health care or education will have to take the hits instead.
Nobody thinks there is an easy way out of New York's fiscal problems, but most other states began months ago shaving expenses and raising taxes to cover their deficits. By being the pre-election Pollyanna, Governor Pataki has delayed the hard choices and made a difficult process so much worse.
Instead of settling in for a winter vacation, the State Legislature should get to work identifying service cuts and new revenues. One of the worst aspects of Mr. Pataki's plan is that it lets the lawmakers -- always eager to shirk hard choices -- off the hook. New York State is facing a fiscal crisis. Albany can no longer whistle its way out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); POLITICS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SMOKING (74%); BONDS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



360 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SEABORNE TRADE; 
Warnings From Al Qaeda Stir Fear That Terrorists May Attack Oil Tankers

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: ABOARD PETRO RANGER, in the Strait of Malacca, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
As the distant jungle shore of Malaysia faded from green to gray to black at sunset, Noer Rahman put a bright red fire ax on the back deck of this aging tanker, then tied two high-pressure fire hoses to the stern handrail and turned them on.
 Mr. Rahman, an experienced Indonesian sailor, was getting ready to fight pirates and terrorists, dangers especially great in this important waterway, the fastest route around the southernmost tip of continental Asia. 
 A recent audiotape believed to have been made by Osama bin Laden praised and seemed to take responsibility for a suicide attack two months ago in which a speedboat packed with explosives rammed and crippled a French tanker, the Limburg, off Yemen. Other leaders of Al Qaeda have vowed to cut the "economic lifelines" of the world's industrialized societies. 
The threats have focused the attention of intelligence agencies and marine police worldwide on the vulnerability of tankers. Representatives of most of the world's seagoing nations are meeting in London to discuss how to keep ships safe from the long-term problem of piracy and the new risks of terrorism.
"With the attack on the Limburg, commercial vessels, especially vulnerable vessels like tankers, are terrorist targets," said Pootengal Mukundan, the director of the International Maritime Bureau, a United Nations affiliate that works with Interpol to combat seaborne crime.
Nowhere has the concern been more acute than here in the Strait of Malacca, between Malaysia and Indonesia. A quarter of the world's trade passes through the strait. That includes half of all sea shipments of oil, bound for East Asia or sometimes the United States, and two-thirds of the world's shipments of liquefied natural gas.
More pirate attacks occur in Indonesian waters than anywhere else in the world. The pirates have spies in ports to identify valuable targets, and sometimes confederates aboard as well. 
Since Indonesia has many radical Muslim groups with a history of violence, which have been linked to the bombing in Bali in October, law enforcement and intelligence officials worry that terrorists may tap the pirates' expertise to mount attacks on ships in the region.
Smaller tankers like this 420-foot-long vessel, making slow trips through the strait while fully laden with valuable cargos, run the greatest danger, Mr. Mukundan said. 
The big fear is that Al Qaeda might seize a ship and crash it into another vessel or into a refinery or port.
Singapore, where the Petro Ranger started its current journey, has the world's second-busiest port, after Hong Kong's, so its government has taken the threat of terrorism very seriously.
As the ship began inching away from the jetties of Singapore's immense refinery, where it took on three million gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel, a brown Singaporean F-4 Skyhawk fighter flew overhead on combat air patrol, a precaution started after the attacks on Sept. 11 of last year. 
A Singaporean Hawkeye airborne surveillance plane circled twice over the refinery in the next hour, while a half-dozen fast patrol boats with deck guns and a small gray warship cruised the anchorage. One of the patrol boats escorted the Petro Ranger.
But once vessels enter the Strait of Malacca they are essentially on their own. An hour from Singapore, the Petro Ranger peacefully steamed past Iyu Kecil, a jungle-covered Indonesian island that Mr. Mukundan described as a base for an organized crime gang that has been hijacking small tankers to sell the cargos.
Three hours later, the Petro Ranger sailed past Laboh Point, Malaysia, where the tanker's crew had a close call just two months ago. A watchman on the deck of the Petro Ranger spotted a fast, low boat with no lights within 100 yards of the stern. 
The tanker's bells sounded to wake the unarmed crew, a radio call went out to the Malaysian coast guard and Istaque Hossain, the second officer, aimed a spotlight at the craft to signal to the occupants that they would not take the Petro Ranger unawares.
The spotlight revealed the boat to be packed with crouching men. "All of them were squatting, coming very close in masks and full black body suits," recalled Fong Chung-chen, the Petro Ranger's Malaysian chief officer. After it was caught in the light, the boat sheered off and vanished.
Armed with machetes, swords, even assault rifles and hand grenades, pirates often climb up the stern of a vessel, using grappling hooks and rope or sometimes shinnying up thick bamboo poles with hooks at the top. Pirates frequently choose the stern because it is low and because they are unlikely to be seen by officers on the bridge watching the sea ahead. 
Once aboard they try to disable a ship's radio systems before the crew can send a distress signal to local coast guard units.
Experienced sailors say pirates consider fire axes and hoses to be fair defensive weapons, unlike guns, for which they often punish ship crews. The axes are used to sever the pirates' grappling hooks, and the hoses spraying water off the stern are supposed to make the pirate boats wet and slippery platforms from which to mount an attack.
The pirate boats are typically equipped with several outboard motors on the back, allowing them to go up to three times as fast as the tankers, which lumber along at 11 knots, the equivalent of 13 land miles an hour. The pirates also use a low-tech version of stealth technology: they choose boats made of wood, which are hard to spot on radar.
Laws in many ports bar the equipping of tankers with deck guns. Many companies, including Petroships Pte. Ltd., which operates the single-hull Petro Ranger and seven newer tankers, also ban the crews from carrying guns.
"Let's say we shoot at them," Mr. Fong said. "When they board they would kill us all. Once they board we are finished -- if we lock the doors, they break the glass" of the windows.
Four and a half years ago, a dozen pirates swarmed aboard this tanker off the eastern coast of Malaysia and took the crew prisoner. The pirates sailed to China to try to sell the gasoline and diesel fuel, then worth about $2 million at wholesale prices. But a Chinese marine police vessel discovered the tanker and freed the crew.
The International Maritime Bureau's records show a decline in reported attacks against vessels in the Strait of Malacca in the last two years. 
Bureau officials say that partly reflects the fact that fewer captains are reporting incidents, but also some progress in combating piracy.
China has begun keeping pirates out of its waters, notably by executing members of one gang that murdered the entire crew of a vessel. Malaysia has purchased more fast patrol boats and has identified some of the ringleaders of pirate gangs based in nearby countries, said Muhamad Muda, the commander of Malaysia's marine police.
"We gave them the warning that if they ever came into Malaysian waters we will apprehend them and eliminate them," he said.
Indonesia, struggling with a crippled economy, has proven unable to mount such an ambitious effort. Intelligence officials say most pirates are based on the Indonesian side of the strait and buy the collusion of villagers by sharing their loot.
A few shipowners, notably Petroships' chairman, Alan H. J. Chan, say efforts to date have been completely inadequate, and have begun calling for the formation of a small military force, operating under a license from the United Nations, to patrol the strait. 
"A big project may cost millions but save billions, and save lives, too," Mr. Chan said.
But Malaysia and Indonesia oppose the idea, arguing that intelligence gathering and law enforcement ashore are just as important.
Additional patrols might discourage pirates but will not stop terrorists willing to die for their cause, Mr. Mukundan said. The International Maritime Bureau has begun calling for the creation of special shipping lanes reserved for commercial vessels in waterways like this one, with military force used to exclude fishing boats and pleasure craft.
"The only way to stop it is to blow it out of the water before it hits the tanker," Mr. Mukundan said. The United States and other countries have been leery of such a drastic response.
By 9 p.m. on the second day of its voyage, the Petro Ranger was chugging across calm seas in moonless, utter darkness. The nearest land was Tuan Point, Malaysia, where the captain of a fishing trawler was kidnapped by pirates in broad daylight. He was later released unhurt.
Aboard the Petro Ranger, Mr. Fong fretted over the radar. A long, thin fishing boat was barely visible by its navigation lights, yet the radar showed no trace of it. 
When Mr. Fong turned up the radar, it showed a mass of reflections from every ripple on the sea, and still no boat was discernible. The boat quietly passed around the stern of the Petro Ranger, where it unexpectedly turned up on the radar, and then sailed off into the distance.
Two hours later the Petro Ranger's 31-year-old engines began spewing clouds of sparks because of a fuel mixture problem. The bridge officers were alarmed that sparks might blow onto the cargo tanks, or that pirates might see the sparks as a sign of engine distress and pounce. It took an hour for the ship's engineers to fix the problem.
After traversing the narrowest and most dangerous 130 miles of the strait, the Petro Ranger safely sailed up an estuary and docked at 6 a.m. at Port Klang, the main port for the Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur. Mohda Hadapi, the Malaysian helmsman, was relieved after a nerve-racking night of scanning a pitch-black sea.
His wife cries each time he leaves, he said. "Pirates and now terrorists -- after January, I'm going to sign off, maybe find a job ashore," he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Petro Ranger, a tanker carrying three million gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel, approaching pirate-infested islands in the Strait of Malacca. (Keith Bradsher/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "Dangerous Strait"The Strait of Malacca ranks second among world oil shipping lanes. FLOW OF OIL THROUGH SHIPPING LANESestimates in millions of barrels per day 1. Strait of Hormuz: 132. Strait of Malacca: 10.33. Suez Canal/Sumed Pipeline: 3.84. Bab el Mandeb*: 3.23.35. Bosporus+: 2 *2000 estimate+2001 estimate Map of the world highlighting the oil shipping lanes listed above. Map of Malaysia highlighting the Strait of Malacca. (Source: Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MARINE TANKERS (91%); MARITIME PIRACY (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); GASOLINE (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); DIESEL FUEL (64%); BULK SHIPPING (57%) TERRORISM; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TANKERS; TERRORISM; PIRACY AT SEA 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (54%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%) BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MALAYSIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) STRAIT OF MALACCA

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



361 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Fight to Keep New Housing Out of District 

BYLINE:  By DAISY HERN NDEZ 

 BODY:
A public hearing yesterday on whether to allow the construction of a 32-story residential tower in the heart of the meatpacking district drew dissents from businesspeople, who said that the smells, noises and sights of the area made it incompatible with new housing.
 The project's developer, however, said the district's gritty character would make the tower, proposed for 848 Washington Street between Little West 12th Street and West 13th Street, a magnet for apartment buyers. 
 But for two hours after his presentation before the Board of Standards and Appeals, about two dozen people offered a different view -- saying it was perfect for business but bad as a place to live. 
"We like it loud, we like it crazy, we like it smelly," said Eli Halliwell, a senior operating manager for Bumble and Bumble, which plans to open an upscale hair salon in the district in the spring.
Michelle Dell, owner of the bar Hogs & Heifers, said she would be out of business within a year given the noise complaints that she would receive from the tower's residents.
"We're a die-hard American bar," Ms. Dell said, adding that on weekends it is open until 4 a.m. and has a regular crew of bikers accompanied by the rev of their motorcycles.
Others who testified said the "pungent aromas" from the all-night meatpackers would only draw complaints from neighbors.
The developer, Landmark Development, is asking the Board of Standards and Appeals for a variance to zoning regulations, which prohibit the construction of residential housing in the meatpacking district. The board said it would accept further testimony in writing and issue a decision on March 25. 
Peter Pfeffer, an urban designer with the Department of City Planning, said that while the meatpacking industry had diminished and that other businesses had moved in, it was still one of the most thriving manufacturing zones on the West Side. "These operations are incompatible with residential use," Mr. Pfeffer said.
But Stephen Touhey, a partner in the development company, said the local businesses would not bother potential residents. "They're actually going to be there because of the smells," Mr. Touhey said.
And Mr. Touhey's lawyer, Howard Hornstein, said newer businesses would also make the neighborhood attractive.
"It has nightclubs. It has galleries," Mr. Hornstein said. "People will be living there in three to five years and I think we all know that." 
At over 400 feet, the tower would be the tallest building for many blocks and would have 34 apartments priced at $2 million to $4 million dollars each. 
The controversy could soon be complicated if the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission decides to name the meatpacking district historic. That would prohibit tampering with the current architecture. Last night the commission heard public testimony on the proposal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); ZONING (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); NOISE POLLUTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); CITIES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) HOUSING; NOISE; ODORS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, DAISY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



362 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Priest Guilty in Sex Abuse Of 11-Year-Old Altar Boy 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

 BODY:
A 56-year-old Roman Catholic priest in New Jersey was found guilty yesterday of sexually assaulting an 11-year-old altar boy on two occasions after Sunday Mass nearly a decade ago.
 A jury of nine women and three men deliberated only a few hours between Tuesday afternoon and late yesterday morning before returning its verdict in the first sex-abuse trial of a priest in New Jersey since the scandal erupted this year. 
 After the priest, the Rev. John M. Banko, was convicted, the trial prosecutor, Dawn M. Solari, of the Hunterdon County prosecutor's office, appealed to victims of other priests to come forward and help the authorities bring charges in their cases. "I hope they can see that the system worked in this case," Ms. Solari said. 
At least one other priest in New Jersey, the Rev. Michael Fugee, 42, of Wyckoff, has been charged with molesting a young male parishioner. His trial is expected to begin in the spring in Hackensack.
In a statement, the Diocese of Metuchen, in which Father Banko had served as parish pastor and priest, called his actions abhorrent and vowed to help the authorities prosecute any other abuse cases against priests. 
"Our hearts go out to the victims who testified in this matter and to their families, who surely have endured years of pain and anguish," the statement said. "To each of them we apologize."
Father Banko's victim, who is now 20 years old, buried his head in his hands when the verdict was announced in New Jersey Superior Court in Flemington. Moments later, according to The Associated Press, his mother said: "We've waited a long time for this. I'm just glad it's over. My son can get back to, maybe, a normal life."
Father Banko, who has been a priest in New Jersey since 1972, showed little emotion. The presiding judge, Ann R. Bartlett, revoked his $25,000 bail and ordered him held in the Hunterdon County jail. He faces a prison term of up to 35 years when he is sentenced Feb. 7. The judge ordered that he undergo psychiatric evaluation at the state's center for sexual predators in Avenel before he is sentenced. 
The jury convicted Father Banko of all three charges against him: aggravated sexual assault, sexual assault and endangering the welfare of a child. The authorities said the assaults occurred on two consecutive Sundays between September 1993 and September 1994 in a small changing room near the main altar at St. Edward the Confessor Church in Milford, N.J. On both occasions, Father Banko, the church pastor at the time, had just finished saying Mass, and he and the youth, who had served as his altar boy, were changing clothes. Both times, the authorities said, the priest performed fellatio on the youth and then forced the boy to touch the priest's genital area.
After testifying about the acts when the trial opened last Wednesday, the young man said Father Banko warned him that his parents would be harmed if he told anyone of the incidents. The boy kept the secret until he told a friend in November 1999, Ms. Solari, the prosecutor said. The friend notified the authorities, and the investigation started in December 1999. The Diocese of Metuchen suspended Father Banko from ministerial duties in April 2000, meaning he could no longer publicly say Mass, said a diocesan spokeswoman, Joanne Ward.
Before he was jailed yesterday, Father Banko had been living with his 94-year-old mother in Trenton, his lawyer, Lewis White 3rd said. Mr. White said he planned to apply for reinstatement of the $25,000 bail. As for an appeal, Mr. White said he would refer the priest to the state public defender's office because he is unemployed and unable to afford a private lawyer. Ms. Ward, the diocesan spokeswoman, said the church had provided no funds for Father Banko's defense.
In addition to the former altar boy, three men, now in their 30's, testified against the priest to show that he had engaged in a pattern of seduction. One said the priest once grabbed his buttocks, another said Father Banko had once masturbated in front of him, and the third said the priest had performed fellatio on him several times while he was still a seminarian in the early 1970's. No charges were filed in their cases because the statute of limitations had expired.
Father Banko testified in his own defense and denied their accounts, as well as the former altar boy's. But during Ms. Solari's cross-examination he acknowledged that he had once told detectives he had had sexual relations with both men and women who, he believed, were all older than 18. He said he had interpreted his vow of celibacy to mean he could never marry but could engage in sexual relations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. John M. Banko reacted yesterday to his guilty verdict. (Pool photo by Rich Schultz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); SEX OFFENSES (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); JUDGES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); SCANDALS (73%); BAIL (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); FAMILY (70%) SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; PRIESTS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) 

ORGANIZATION: HUNTERDON COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (57%) ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; BANKO, JOHN M (REV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



363 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
On Hudson, On Potomac, On Edge

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
THOUSANDS are expected to demonstrate on the Mall in Washington this weekend to support changing the name of the nation's capital to better reflect the prevailing fears of war and mayhem. To register its plea for relief, the public favors the new name of Hypothetica. 
 A rally to recommend a parallel name change in the country's premier city -- to New Mania, H.A. (High Anxiety) -- will be held at the same time in Times Square because the city, too, is in constant agitation over fears of chaos. A name change in New York is considered most unlikely, however, because of its citizenry's inability ever to agree on anything. 
 Hypothetica in place of Washington prevailed over several alternatives, including Whatif, Couldbe, MightJustHappen and YouNeverKnow. But Hypothetica drew 98 percent support in an instant poll taken by Fox News between 10 and 10:05 last night, after a typically wide-ranging discussion between Bill O'Reilly and Ann Coulter. 
The sentiment in Congress is against a change. The strongest negative voice belongs to Trent Lott, the Republican Senate leader, who said that he has favored no significant changes of any kind over the past 50 years, each of which has caused "problems" for him. He is not alone, but a lively debate looms on Capitol Hill.
Americans favor Hypothetica because, according to well-placed sources familiar with the pulse of the country, it best captures the pulse of the country. "Americans have come to accept living in a daily state of risk, a kind of suspended animation as they await an uncertain future," explained Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary.
He noted that people have come to accept the president's selection of Tom Ridge to head the Department of Homeland Security; he, of course, devised the color-coded terrorism alert system, which the public has recognized to sometimes be slightly better than nothing.
Mr. Fleischer has also pointed out that the public has been accepting of the latest strategies and preparations for war that have dribbled out of Washington, incrementally, day by day.
In the event of war, the daily Fleischer briefings will be televised live on C-Span, CNN, Fox, MSNBC and Nickelodeon, as will the daily briefings by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is expected to make public his e-mail address.
NEW YORKERS, though not unmindful of the country's war plans, have their ears full of other dire warnings. 
Firefighters foresee the city burning to the ground if one more firehouse is ever closed. A mass flight to New Jersey is predicted if taxes are raised again. Park lovers have been led to fear that a beetle could kill all the trees. The mayor fears perpetual gridlock if he doesn't impose tolls on the bridges, and business leaders fear economic collapse if he does. The whole city fears the return of a high crime rate, and everyone is really frightened of the latest scare -- the prospect of a transit strike. 
Three weeks before the strike deadline, the mayor began sounding the alarm in his mild way. As the date approached, he began giving tutorials about car-pooling and bicycling, rush-hour lane reversals and the dangers of gridlock. "We have to prepare for the worst," he intoned.
What the mayor lacked in fervor, the media provided. The prospect of a paralyzing strike evoked vivid accounts of transit strikes past, and counsel from mayors past. Businesses developed contingency plans for employees, and headline writers and producers of television newscasts went into overdrive.
"City Strike Chaos," screamed one tabloid. "A Strike Alert!" promised an 11 o'clock newscast on WCBS-TV. The Strike Alert! warning -- five days before there could be a strike -- even trumped a story predicting "a major ice storm." Which turned out to be mainly rain.
History would suggest that the mayor has little choice but to play as tough with the union as his temperament allows -- just as the union leader has to play tough with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. That's the only way they can justify the settlement that is finally reached, as it must be, strike or no strike. They're carrying out their assigned roles.
So is the public, assigned to be on the receiving end of fearsome warnings. That is how it's played, from the Potomac to the Hudson -- elaborate rehearsals based on what might be, followed (or not) by the real thing. 
No, they won't soon be changing the names of any cities, but it is helpful from time to time to remember that the hypothetical is hypothetical. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (89%); TERRORISM (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); HIJACKING (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); AIRLINES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; TAXATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; STRIKES; TRANSIT SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (52%); TRENT LOTT (51%) PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



364 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSIT SHOWDOWN: HISTORY; 
22 Years After the Last Transit Strike, Familiar Doldrums and Grievances

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Commercials for Calvin Klein jeans and the mystery of who shot J. R. might seem like relics from the ancient past. But in many ways, the gulf between 1980 and today is not so wide.
 Then, as now, the president of the Transport Workers Union was an immigrant elected as a firebrand to wrest a better deal for his members. The chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was a real estate developer with close ties to the governor. 
 Talk of a fare increase was in the air, the economy was poor, the mayor spoke of the dire consequences of a strike and the union warned -- as Roger Toussaint, its current leader, warns now more obliquely -- that it would no longer subsidize the city and state by sacrificing raises.
Whether history will repeat itself is far from certain. But the first 11 days in April 1980, when a subway and bus shutdown -- as well as a short Long Island Rail Road strike -- paralyzed the city, provide a kind of guide to what could happen during a new strike and about the long-term effects on the city.
The images from those days 22 years ago remain powerful even now: the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges so flooded with New Yorkers that it seemed as if a marathon was under way; train yards lined with idle subway cars; traffic so snarled that a trip from Herald Square to 59th Street could take more than an hour; classrooms half empty around the city. 
The statistics were just as stark. During the strike, at least 50,000 people temporarily relocated to be closer to work. The number of cars coming into Manhattan between 4 and 7 a.m. more than doubled as commuters tried to avoid a single-driver ban, similar to the one that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said he would enforce during a new strike.
The public and private sector together lost more than $1 billion during those 11 days, according to some economists, and the working poor, the most reliant on public transportation, were hit the hardest. The transit union was fined $1 million and later lost even more. 
In ways both profound and not so profound, damage from the strike lingered. By the next year, for example, ridership on buses and subways had fallen to its lowest level since 1917. In the fashion world, experts said that a troubling and persistent trend -- women wearing white socks and running shoes with business suits -- was most likely spawned by the pedestrian requirements of the strike.
But some of the effects were actually positive. The number of people riding bicycles, for example, doubled during the strike and continued to rise in the years after it, helping to lead to better accommodations for city bike riders.
And even during the strike, not all of the dire consequences predicted by Mayor Edward I. Koch came to pass. Theater attendance and the restaurant business did not suffer much at all, and the Mets, at their season opener, managed to draw even more fans than they had the year before without a transit strike. (The attendance, 12,219 people, was still dismal.)
In fact, for many New Yorkers who lived through the 1980 strike, the memories are mixed with a strong combination of nostalgia, humor and pride at having weathered it. They recall Mayor Koch, who compared the city to London during the Blitz, standing at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge in Manhattan, cheering on the armies of pedestrians.
"I talked to Mayor Bloomberg the other day," Mr. Koch said recently, "and he said, 'The bridge was yours. I've got to find something else.' And he did. He found his bike. It will be his symbol."
Strike survivors fondly remember a city coming together and wearing a friendlier face, the way it sometimes does during crises -- people hitchhiking, talking to strangers, going to work late or skipping it altogether and napping in Central Park. They remember paramedics riding mopeds to get through traffic and charter boats delivering investment bankers to the shores of Manhattan.
Gerry Casanova, a junior account executive then at Young & Rubicam, said that for a few spring days, as he biked to work, the city felt more like Amsterdam or Copenhagen than a dysfunctional metropolis. "I think about it all the time," said Mr. Casanova, now an executive vice president at Rubenstein Associates, the public relations firm. "I just remember it being calm, fun. It was like people cross-country skiing during a rare blizzard in New York."
But of course, mention of a blizzard inevitably brings up the big differences between the 1980 strike and any that might happen now, differences that many city officials warn will make a strike now much more damaging.
Walking and biking in December -- an unusually wintry one at that -- will be much harder and less appealing than doing so in April. Financially, the city is also much less able to pay for the police overtime and other expenses associated with a strike. And businesses, already struggling with sluggish holiday sales, will almost certainly be hit much harder than they were during the last strike.
In addition, the number of people affected by a strike would be larger. The average daily weekday ridership on subways and buses is now 7 million, about 1.4 million more than in 1980, and many of the city's 1.1 million schoolchildren also have farther to travel now than in 1980 because they can now choose to attend schools outside their neighborhoods.
"I can only say that I hope there's a lot going on in a back room that you and I don't know about," said Richard Ravitch, the M.T.A. chairman during the last walkout. "Because if there's not, we're all in trouble."

GRAPHIC: Photos: During the transit strike of 1980, a line of commuters waited to board a lone Bronx-bound bus at Madison Avenue and 44th Street, while others resorted to getting to work by bicycle and foot on the Avenue of the Americas. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times); (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POOR POPULATION (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); TRENDS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; STRIKES; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; COMMUTING; WEATHER 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%) TRANSIT WORKERS UNION; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



365 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: Excerpts From Reports by Congressional Inquiry Into Sept. 11 Attacks; 
Conclusions of the Majority Report

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the final report of the joint Congressional committee investigating the Sept. 11 attacks. Fuller excerpts are online at nytimes.com/politics.

Recommendations
 Congress should amend the National Security Act of 1947 to create and sufficiently staff a statutory director of national intelligence who shall be the president's principal adviser on intelligence and shall have the full range of management, budgetary and personnel responsibilities needed to make the entire U.S. intelligence community operate as a coherent whole. These responsibilities should include: 
 *Establishment and enforcement of consistent priorities for the collection, analysis, and dissemination of intelligence throughout the intelligence community;
*Setting of policy and the ability to move personnel between elements of the intelligence community;
*Review, approval, modification, and primary management and oversight of the execution of intelligence community budgets;
*Review, approval, modification, and primary management and oversight of the execution of intelligence community personnel and resource allocations;
*Review, approval, modification, and primary management and oversight of the execution of intelligence community research and development efforts;
*Review, approval and coordination of relationships between the intelligence community agencies and foreign intelligence and law enforcement services; and
*Exercise of statutory authority to ensure that intelligence community agencies and components fully comply with communitywide policy, management, spending, and administrative guidance and priorities.
The director of national intelligence should be a cabinet-level position, appointed by the president and subject to Senate confirmation. Congress and the president should also work to ensure that the director of national intelligence effectively exercises these authorities.
To ensure focused and consistent intelligence community leadership, Congress should require that no person may simultaneously serve as both the director of national intelligence and the director of the C.I.A., or as the director of any other specific intelligence agency. . . .
The National Security Council, in conjunction with the director of national intelligence, and in consultation with the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, the secretary of state and secretary of defense, should prepare, for the president's approval, a U.S. government-wide strategy for combating terrorism, both at home and abroad, including the growing terrorism threat posed by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and associated technologies. This strategy should identify and fully engage those foreign policy, economic, military, intelligence and law enforcement elements that are critical to a comprehensive blueprint for success in the war against terrorism.
As part of that effort, the director of national intelligence shall develop the intelligence community component of the strategy, identifying specific programs and budgets and including plans to address the threats posed by Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, Hamas and other significant terrorist groups. Consistent with applicable law, the strategy should effectively employ and integrate all capabilities available to the intelligence community against those threats and should encompass specific efforts to:
*Develop human sources to penetrate terrorist organizations and networks both overseas and within the United States;
*Fully utilize existing and future technologies to better exploit terrorist communications; to improve and expand the use of data mining and other cutting-edge analytical tools; and to develop a multilevel security capability to facilitate the timely and complete sharing of relevant intelligence information both within the intelligence community and with other appropriate federal, state and local authorities;
*Enhance the depth and quality of domestic intelligence collection and analysis by, for example, modernizing current intelligence reporting formats through the use of existing information technology to emphasize the existence and the significance of links between new and previously acquired information;
*Maximize the effective use of covert action in counterterrorist efforts;
*Develop programs to deal with financial support for international terrorism; and
*Facilitate the ability of C.I.A. paramilitary units and military special operations forces to conduct joint operations against terrorist targets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (96%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HIJACKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); HEZBOLLAH (66%); HAMAS (66%); AL-QAEDA (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



366 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: New Chief of F.D.A. Advocates Quicker Approval Process for Brand-Name and Generic Drugs 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
The new head of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, said today that he intended to speed the approval of new drugs and crack down on deceptive pharmaceutical advertising.
 The agency has substantially reduced the time required to review and approve new medicines since 1993, when drug companies began paying fees to help cover the costs of such reviews. It still takes a little more than a year for the agency to approve a typical brand-name drug, and Dr. McClellan said today, "We can do better." 
 Dr. McClellan said he wanted to accelerate the approval of both brand-name and generic drugs, as well as medical devices.
"We have some great opportunities to do better in drug approval times and in getting products that are safe and effective to market more quickly," Dr. McClellan, a physician and economist who worked at the White House until he took charge of the agency on Nov. 14, said.
User fees paid by drug companies accounted for about half the $332 million that the agency spent on drug reviews in the last year.
Told of Dr. McClellan's commitment to speed the review of low-cost generic versions of brand-name drugs, Jake Hansen, vice president of Barr Laboratories, a large maker of generic drugs, said, "That's music to our ears."
Currently, Mr. Hansen said, "the decision on approval of a generic drug is supposed to be made within six months after an application is filed, but it's not at all unusual for the process to take 14 to 16 months, which is longer than the time needed to approve many brand-name drugs."
Some consumer groups assert that quicker review of new drugs has increased the risk that products will later be found unsafe and removed from the market. Some studies have found such an increase, but the agency disagrees.
Dr. McClellan said his agency would be more aggressive in policing claims made in television advertisements for prescription drugs.
"We will not be afraid to go to court when necessary" to stop companies from exaggerating the benefits or understating the risks of drugs, he said.
Since 1997, the agency has sent more than 88 letters to drug companies objecting to their advertisements on television and radio and in print. 
The General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, reported last week that several major companies had repeatedly disseminated misleading advertisements for the same drug even after being cited for violations.
Dr. McClellan said he would try to deter violations by setting clearer standards.
"If we see patterns of recurrent use of misleading techniques in advertising," he added, "we will go further than warning letters."
The commissioner said he was even more concerned about misleading claims for the health benefits of some dietary supplements. "I am looking for ways to improve our enforcement" in that area, he said.
Dr. McClellan also said that with the rapid growth in drug development, "there's a real problem" getting enough people to participate in clinical trials of new medications. New technology, he said, may allow researchers to predict a drug's side effects at an earlier stage, alerting the government and industry to potential problems, like liver damage, without waiting for the results of lengthy clinical trials with large numbers of patients.
In addition, Dr. McClellan said he wanted to negotiate arrangements with some hospitals and nursing homes so they would automatically and promptly report the adverse effects of drugs and medical devices already on the market.
Dr. Raymond Woosley, a pharmacologist who is vice president of the University of Arizona, called such surveillance an excellent idea.
"It would indicate what proportion of patients exposed to a drug suffer adverse effects," Dr. Woosley said, "and we could use that information to measure the relative safety of different drugs.
The government receives vast amounts of information about the adverse effects of drugs on the market. But the reporting by doctors and patients is generally voluntary, and the government usually has no idea how many people have been exposed to a particular drug.
Dr. McClellan said he did not intend to weigh the costs and benefits of new drugs submitted to his agency for approval.
"That's not part of our mandate," he said. "But I would like to do some additional cost-benefit analysis of our drug approval process. If there are different ways of assuring that a safe, effective drug gets to market, we ought to follow the approach that does it as efficiently as possible, at the least cost to the agency and the drug producers." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); APPROVALS (92%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (90%); US FDA REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); ACCOUNTING (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); DRUG SAFETY (58%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; MCCLELLAN, MARK B (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



367 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Enron Records Contradict Denials of Speculating
Even as Enron's top executives were insisting that the company did not engage in speculative trading, Enron was reaping the bulk of its profits during the California energy crisis betting on the direction of gas and electricity prices, according to company records and interviews with former Enron traders and executives.
 Enron made the profitable bets -- including one that resulted in a $485 million gain on one day in December 2000 -- at a time when investigators say it was conspiring with other companies to manipulate prices. Page A1. 

Coco-Cola Names a President
Coca-Cola said that it had named Steven J. Heyer, who joined the company in 2001, president and chief operating officer. C15.

Taubman Rejects Takeover Offer
A. Alfred Taubman's shopping mall empire, Taubman Centers, rejected a $1.5 billion bid from Simon Property Group, calling the offer inadequate, and "clearly not in the best interests" of shareholders. The rejection is the second time Taubman Centers has dismissed Simon Property's overture offer over the several weeks. C2.

U.S. Bank in Deal in Mexico
Bank of America said that it would pay $1.6 billion for 24.9 percent of Grupo Financiero Santander Serfin, the most profitable bank in Mexico. World Business, Section W.

F.D.A. Head Vows Faster Approvals
The new head of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, said that he intended to speed up the approval of new drugs and would crack down on deceptive pharmaceutical advertising. A34.

Large pharmaceutical companies have increased their promotional spending so much in the last four years that each dollar spent on marketing no longer brings in the profits it once did, accord to a Datamonitor report. C3.

US Airways Pilots Accept More Cuts
US Airways said that it had reached a tentative agreement with its pilots' union on an additional $101 million in concessions. C4.

Vivendi Moves to Sell Art Collection
Vivendi Universal, the troubled French entertainment company, has asked three auction houses for proposals to sell off its modern art collection. E1.

ABC Plans Changes on Mondays
ABC reshuffled its prime-time schedule, moving its hit drama "The Practice" to 9 p.m. Monday from Sunday. "Miracles," a drama about investigators of the supernatural, will run at 10. Lloyd Braun, left, the chairman of ABC Entertainment, said the moves were made to shore up its schedule after "Monday Night Football" ends for the year. C5.

Taking the Criticism and the Ad
A campaign from the Wall Street Journal Online, one of the few news Web sites to charge for access, mocks its free counterparts as uninformed and unreliable. But the critical words are not preventing the competing sites from accepting the ads. Advertising. C5.

Dow Slips Before Finishing Higher
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 14.88 points, at 8,589.14. The Nasdaq rose 5.83 points, to 1,396.59. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 0.51 points, to 904.96. C10.

Name Can Make Job Hunt Hard
Researchers testing whether employers discriminate against black job applicants found that applicants with white-sounding names were 50 percent more likely to be called back than were those with black-sounding names. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,589.14 up 14.88Nasdaq composite -- 1,396.59 up 5.8310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.02% down 0.03The euro -- $1.0084 down 0.0007The dollar -- 123.62 yen down 0.09 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Taubman Centers shares for the week. Graph: "TODAY" shows retail sales from May to October. Retail SalesNovember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); CONSPIRACY (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (72%); US FDA APPROVALS (72%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); US FDA REVIEW (70%); APPROVALS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (67%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (67%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (66%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VIVENDI (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (81%); VIV (BIT) (81%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); SPG (NYSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: A ALFRED TAUBMAN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



368 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSIT SHOWDOWN: NEGOTIATIONS; 
Union Lowers Its Demands As M.T.A. Plans to Request Injunction Against Strike

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Showing flexibility for the first time, the transit workers' union lowered its wage demands yesterday, while transit officials said they would go to state court this morning to seek an injunction to bar any strike.
 At the first high-level negotiations in more than a week, the union representing 34,000 subway and bus workers said it would accept raises of 6 percent a year over three years, down from its previous demand for an 8 percent annual raise. 
 On Saturday, members of the Transport Workers Union Local 100 authorized a strike if no settlement is reached by Monday morning. Eager to avert a strike, officials with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said their lawyers would file motions in New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn today to prohibit a walkout. 
The Taylor Law bars strikes in New York State by public employees, including transit workers, and calls for fines of two days' pay for every day a striker is out. One transit official said the authority would seek a basic court order spelling out those penalties and might also ask for a stronger order threatening greater penalties.
In its effort to obtain an injunction, the authority is scheduled to appear at 9 a.m. today before Justice Ann Pfau, administrative judge of the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn.
City Hall and transit officials said the city was also considering seeking an injunction with additional penalties, but they said the city would probably not seek an injunction today.
At a news conference, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg suggested that the city was holding off on seeking an injunction for fear of worsening an already tense situation.
"We have a legal strategy ready to go," Mr. Bloomberg said. "Whether we file or not, people should understand, New York City will exercise every legal right it has to prevent a strike. And should an illegal strike take place, New York City will use every legal remedy it has to recover damages and to punish those who break the law."
When the transport workers threatened a strike during negotiations in 1999, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani obtained a far-reaching injunction that threatened the union with millions of dollars in fines.
The union agreed yesterday to withdraw a federal lawsuit brought in Manhattan that sought an order that would have barred the city from seeking a broad antistrike injunction. 
After yesterday's two-hour bargaining session at the West Side Y.M.C.A. on West 63rd Street, Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100, said the transportation authority was being inflexible, and had not budged from original proposals, including a wage freeze, even though the union had reduced its demands. 
"They did not show any flexibility at the table," Mr. Toussaint said. "We've modified our demand, and they have not done likewise."
Saying it faces a $2.7 billion deficit, the authority has called for the union to accept a wage freeze in the first year and has offered raises in the second and third years only if the union agrees to numerous measures to increase productivity.
Mr. Toussaint said: "We want them to move vigorously on the issues. We don't want this last-minute brinksmanship that the M.T.A. apparently is planning."
One top adviser to the union praised yesterday's negotiations as the "realest" session so far and said management discussed more details than it has before.
Gary Dellaverson, the authority's chief negotiator, praised the union for reducing its wage demands. "The fact that they moved is good," he said. "On the other hand, the union is still not recognizing the economic environment in which the negotiations are taking place, and any agreement that we reach will only be reached in the context of that economic environment." 
The union and the authority had disagreed about when the current contract expires, but they appeared to settle that dispute yesterday. Transit officials had insisted that the contract expired at 12:01 a.m. Sunday, but yesterday they said they agreed with the union's position that the expiration would come at 12:01 a.m. Monday.
Mayor Bloomberg rebuffed the union's call for him and Gov. George E. Pataki to get involved in the talks. "Nobody should expect the mayor or the governor to go to a table where somebody's got a gun to your head and is threatening to break the law," he said.
Since the city is facing a $6 billion deficit next fiscal year and its union contracts are expiring soon, Mr. Bloomberg supported the authority's position of accepting raises only if there are commensurate productivity increases. "There is not a lot of money without productivity enhancements to pay anybody anymore," he said.
The authority announced yesterday that in the event of a strike, some Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road trains would be converted to shuttle routes to help residents of outlying boroughs get into Manhattan. The authority said it would suspend ticket sales on trains and might allow lines to form at street level to get onto trains.
For Metro-North, regularly scheduled trains headed to Grand Central Terminal would not stop at most Bronx stations from 5 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 3:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Instead, trains would provide shuttle service between the Bronx and Manhattan.
For the Long Island Rail Road, regularly scheduled trains heading to Penn Station would stop at hub stations in Queens from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. At other times, special shuttles and regular trains would provide service to all Queens stations.
The authority said on its Web site that the contingency plan would not take effect until 24 hours after a strike begins. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); INJUNCTIONS (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); MAYORS (87%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); DAMAGES (77%); CITIES (74%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (74%); LAWYERS (74%); JUDGES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%) TRANSIT WORKERS UNION; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (53%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



369 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSIT SHOWDOWN: ASSESSMENT; 
Angry Workers and Militant Union Leaders vs. Cash-Poor M.T.A.

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Invariably, union contract talks begin with bluff and bluster and outlandish demands that both sides know they will have to compromise on. Despite such sharp differences early on, 98 percent of contract disputes reach a settlement without a walkout, labor surveys show, as the two sides hear each other out and recognize what is achievable and affordable.
 But many labor experts say New York's transit negotiations could end up as part of the unhappy 2 percent that result in strikes, even though state law bars transit walkouts. 
 There are many reasons why the talks involving 34,000 subway and bus workers are so volatile: the smoldering resentment that transit workers feel toward management, fueled by the recent deaths of two subway workers; a deficit-plagued transportation authority that cannot, as usual, turn to the city and state for money to seal a deal because they, too, are drowning in deficits, and a militant, new union leadership that is intent on showing union members just how tough it is.
Another factor is the combative history of Transport Workers Union Local 100. In 1966 and again in 1980, its members defied state law, fines and jail sentences and shut down the nation's largest transit system. 
David L. Gregory, a labor law professor at St. John's University, said, "They might go on strike because they are probably one of the most militant labor unions in any municipality in the United States, and they have a long history of demonstrating that militancy."
The two sides appear to be on a collision course once again because the union's leaders are eager to secure a substantial raise while management is crying poverty. The mayor and governor, knowing that the settlement can set a pattern for their coming labor talks, are eager for transit officials to drive a hard bargain and keep raises to a minimum.
And union members are seething that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is seeking large concessions on pensions and health coverage that will cost workers more than $1,000 a year.
In years past, most transit talks were amicably resolved when transit officials went cup in hand to the mayor and governor, who at the last minute played Santa Claus and found sacks of money to make a deal possible. But this time around the authority might have little luck hitting up Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg or Gov. George E. Pataki for cash to reach a deal because the city faces a $6 billion deficit next year and the state, a $10 billion deficit.
"In any negotiations, if you want to avoid a strike, the union leadership needs to be able to point to some concessions by management and some victories for the workers," said Robert Snyder, a Rutgers University professor who has written a history of the transit union. "It's not clear to me how they might or can achieve that in these negotiations."
The transit workers' resentment toward management takes many forms and one of them is sheer disbelief in the M.T.A.'s claims of a $2.7 billion deficit. Insisting that the authority is trying to trick them, many workers say they are mystified at how the agency suddenly went from a large surplus last year to a huge deficit this year. 
All the pent-up resentment stems from what workers say is a flood of slights, large and small. Two subway workers died on the job in the last month, and the workers contend that management has shown little concern about safety. Transit workers often complain of second-class treatment, noting that they earn less than workers at Metro North and the Long Island Rail Road even though their jobs are dirtier and more dangerous. Many transit workers also feel slighted that the M.T.A. has proposed a wage freeze just months after the police, firefighters and teachers got double-digit raises.
Perhaps the workers' biggest complaint is that the transit agency's disciplinary system treats them like wayward children -- each year the authority issues more than 10,000 citations against transit workers. The workers also say it is demeaning that when they call in sick, the M.T.A. often sends investigators to their homes to see why they are absent.
Echoing the views of many workers, Steve Jenney, a longtime bus driver in Upper Manhattan, said: "To get treated like a human being, I'd go on strike. Absolutely."
With this background of resentment, many New Yorkers concluded that a strike was inevitable when Roger Toussaint, president of Transport Workers Union Local 100, kicked off the talks by demanding a raise of 8 percent a year for three years. But no one, not even Mr. Toussaint, believed that the union would obtain such a large raise; indeed, he lowered his demands to 6 percent a year yesterday.
Even as Mr. Toussaint reduced his pay demands, he said there was no way the union would accept "three zeros." In his view, that is all the M.T.A. has offered, because it has proposed a wage freeze in the first year and raises in the second and third years contingent on the union's accepting new efficiency measures that pay for any raises. Union officials are bridling at that idea.
The key to this dispute may be how high the M.T.A.'s wage offer will go and how low a figure union officials can accept without angering workers and making their militant talk ring hollow.
If the agency offered raises of 3 percent or 4 percent a year, which is above the inflation rate, several labor experts predicted the union would accept that. But with the M.T.A. warning of a large deficit, many labor experts doubt that management would offer nearly that much. An annual 4 percent raise would cost the authority roughly $480 million over three years, while a 3 percent raise would cost $360 million.
More likely, the experts say, the M.T.A. might offer a 1 percent raise three years in a row, although management officials are saying they cannot go even that high unless the union agrees to major measures to increase productivity. Judging from Mr. Toussaint's promises of winning a strong contract, it is doubtful that the union would accept 1 percent raises. 
If at the contract deadline, management says its last and best offer is 1 percent a year, union leaders might feel required to call a strike, even though it is illegal, to show their unhappiness and their mettle. 
Mr. Toussaint was elected two years ago on a platform that denounced his predecessor, Willie James, for not winning enough at the bargaining table. In the 1999 negotiations, when the M.T.A. was enjoying a surplus, the union got raises averaging 4 percent a year. "Toussaint is going to have to substantially fulfill some of his commitments or otherwise his leadership will be in serious question," Professor Gregory said.
If there is a secret in the negotiations, it is whether the M.T.A. has enough millions squirreled away in its opaque budget to finance a raise of, say, 2 percent a year, a number the union might consider, or even 3 percent, a number the union might embrace, labor experts say.
But even if M.T.A. officials conclude that they can offer 2 percent or 3 percent a year, they might face strong pressures from the city and state not to be so generous. City Hall officials have voiced fears that a substantial raise would pressure the cash-poor city to do likewise with its unions. 
Professor Snyder saw a way out: "A settlement could be achieved through a wage agreement that is less than the union is seeking, but it could be augmented by some improvements on working conditions, like discipline and safety, that are very much on workers' minds." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); MAYORS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); CRIMINAL FINES (66%); SUBURBS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); SENTENCING (51%); JAIL SENTENCING (51%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; STRIKES; SUBWAYS; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%) TRANSIT WORKERS UNION; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; TOUSSAINT, ROGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



370 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 894 words

PERSON: Rachel Lloyd 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Guiding the Young Away From the Oldest Profession

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
RACHEL LLOYD is on the phone at the front desk of her Harlem storefront office, smoothing the ruffled feathers of an unidentified person. Feelings were injured at a City Council hearing the week before, at which the police maintained that there were no more than 15 under-age prostitutes in the entire city. 
 Nearly everyone else, including Ms. Lloyd, who runs an organization that helps such girls, disagreed, saying the numbers were far higher and on the rise. 
 But Ms. Lloyd, 27, a frequent public speaker and a lecturer at the new "john school" run by the Brooklyn district attorney's office for men caught soliciting, has worked hard to build relationships with law enforcement. "You know how much I value the work you do," she is saying, calm and earnest.
Then she is off the phone, and her slightly cockneyed British speech buoys with a helium of American "yo's" and "ho's" and "for reals."
"That was mad frustrating," she might say in flawless street slang, concluding many of her pronouncements with a clipped "or wha'ever." 
The effect can be, to fellow adults, bewildering. "When I walk in a room and start to speak," Ms. Lloyd, who is half Indian, half white, acknowledges, "I can see people saying to themselves, 'Who is this chick, and where is she from?' "
But to the girls who begin to trickle into the office after school, many of whom view prostitution as a chance at economic advancement, Ms. Lloyd is bewitching. 
"I tell them, 'Look, I live better than you, and I'm not a 'ho," she says, gesturing at her rabbit fur jacket and black leather pants. 
It is not just Ms. Lloyd's vocabulary and style that wins the trust of the girls she calls, affectionately, "my knuckleheads." It is also the fact that like many of them, she resorted to prostitution at a trying point in her life.
With a practiced air, she rattles off the story: brought up in Portsmouth, England, by a single mother who drank, she dropped out of school and fell into abusive relationships and a life of grunt jobs and petty crime. "I always had a strong work ethic," she says. "I took a year off just to shoplift, but I would take that seriously, too. I used to get up at 8 o'clock in the morning, put on a suit, bun my hair and go out. I was good, too." 
At 17, battered by her boyfriend, she fled to Germany because she heard there was money to be made. She did not speak German, had no money and was not old enough to work legally.
She got a job as a "hostess" in a nightclub, and soon figured out what that really meant. She was, she says, kidnapped, raped, beaten and pimped. Yet she tells stories with a cheeky humor, bled of bitterness. Like the time she jumped off her balcony with a rope around her neck, and it snapped.
"I wasn't dead, and I was locked out of my apartment," she says. She knocked on her neighbor's door, still wearing the noose, for help. "And then I said, 'Can I get a cigarette while I'm here?' "
She is fond of telling audiences that her entry into the sex trade was typical, but her exit was not. She began going to a church that served an American military base and working as a nanny. In 1997, she came to New York on a missionary visa, to work for an organization that helped adult prostitutes leave "the life." 
The first time she spoke in public about her past, at Rikers Island, she was petrified. But the connection with her listeners, despite an age and culture gap, was palpable. "There was the same common thread throughout, of abuse and pain and common shame," she says.
But Ms. Lloyd soon realized that she wanted to work with younger girls. She got her G.E.D., enrolled in the community leadership program at Marymount Manhattan College and founded GEMS, Girls Educational and Mentoring Services, visiting juvenile detention centers and Covenant House, a refuge for runaways.
GEMS now has six full-time employees, and Ms. Lloyd has a bachelor's degree. At an interview for a Clark Foundation fellowship, she walked out with not only money to attend graduate school, but also extra funds for GEMS. "We've never done that before," said Charles Hamilton, the foundation's executive director.
One of her missions is to see child prostitutes treated as victims rather than perpetrators. 
"You've got 10 girls in a group home," she says. "One of them has been involved. She tells the girls, 'You can make some money.' The pimps hang out outside. They're vulnerable, they're without family support, they need money."
GEMS has an apartment where such girls can take refuge from violent relatives and pimps. But more and more, the girls who come in are too young to live without supervision. 
"When I look at my kids now, I think, 'God, I was like, old,' " Ms. Lloyd says, shaking her head. 
She wants more attention paid to the problem, which she attributes to a host of social ills. But publicity is a mixed blessing for a subject so easily sensationalized. "I've been out for eight and a half years and they called me a 'happy ex-hooker,' " she says, referring to a recent article. "That's not who I am. I've worked too hard, I've changed too much. Like, I don't mind sharing my story, particularly for the girls or wha'ever. That's cool." 
But, she adds: "You don't want to be looked at always for your story. You want to be looked at for your total career, your passion and your commitment. That's all I have. My story wouldn't have carried me this far."

GRAPHIC: Photo: RACHEL LLOYD (Monika Graff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (89%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (77%); CITIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CHILDREN (75%); ETHICS (74%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); SHOPLIFTING (50%) PROSTITUTION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: GIRLS EDUCATIONAL AND MENTORING SERVICES (ORGN) 

DEWAN, SHAILA K; LLOYD, RACHEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%) GREAT BRITAIN; NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

CATEGORY: Social Activism 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



371 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Viva Niagara Falls, Spoken Warily; 
A Faded City Cautiously Pins Its Hopes on a New Casino

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Just for a while there, Florence Acotto suspected that this forlorn city, soon to be home to New York's first Las Vegas-style casino, might have sold its soul to the devil.
 Not that she put it that way, exactly. A woman who is serious about her religion, Mrs. Acotto, 77, is a pillar of St. Mary of the Cataract. She is also the proprietor of the Press Box, a bar and restaurant on Niagara Street that she has run for 43 years. 
 She had supported the new Seneca Niagara casino, which is supposed to open in the former convention center a block away on New Year's Eve. But then she heard early this month that it intends to serve free drinks to gamblers, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
"It's not right," Mrs. Acotto said. The casino is supposed to revive the city, but instead, it will end up killing off every saloon downtown, she said, adding, "I'm going to find out where I can raise hell."
Surprises -- some unpleasant -- are the order of the day in Niagara Falls right now. Not only is a casino being created here almost overnight, so is a sovereign territory of the Seneca Indian Nation.
And it is right in the heart of downtown. The Senecas paid the state $1 to take control of almost 13 acres containing the former convention center and plan eventually to expand to about 50 acres. Seneca Niagara is the first of three casinos authorized under an agreement the nation signed with Gov. George E. Pataki in August. The state's largest existing casino, Turning Stone, near Utica, does not have slot machines and does not serve alcohol. Under the Senecas, the state will end up receiving a quarter of the gross profits from the slot machines, which seems likely to amount to tens of millions of dollars a year for Albany.
The deal has not been greeted with universal acclaim. Though the federal Interior Department let it take effect in October, the secretary of the interior expressed concerns about its fairness.
The area's congressman, Representative John J. LaFalce, a Democrat who did not run for re-election this year, has questioned the legality of the Senecas' land acquisition and has called for an investigation into whether the Pataki administration improperly pressured the Interior Department to approve the deal.
Gambling opponents and racetrack fans have filed a lawsuit contending that the deal is barred by the State Constitution. In Buffalo, about half of city voters oppose the Senecas' plan to open a second casino there, according to a poll published by The Buffalo News in November.
But Buffalo looks like Paris compared with Niagara Falls, which has embraced the casino and its promise of 2,000 jobs. The unemployment rate in the Falls is 9.3 percent, according to State Labor Department estimates, well above Buffalo's 7.7 percent or New York City's 7.9 percent.
Despite its lingering reputation as honeymoon headquarters of the world, Niagara Falls has always been an industrial town; its factories made chemicals and metals and cereal. But Nabisco's century-old Shredded Wheat operation closed a year ago, and the other plants have been dying out.
Decades ago, said Frances Iusi, chairwoman of the City Council, downtown had "glamour and glitz." Then came urban renewal. "There was a great plan for tearing everything down," she said, "but not a good plan for building things up."
Efforts to revive downtown by building an entertainment complex, a mall, a "splash park" and an aquarium ended in disaster, leaving behind lawsuits, empty buildings, abandoned water slides and a really big hole in the ground near the river.
Meanwhile, Canada spent huge sums developing its side of the river, Niagara Falls, Ontario. An Imax theater, two wax museums, golf courses, factory outlets, fancy hotels and the Skylon Tower, with a revolving restaurant on top, compete with the falls themselves to attract tourists.
But most of all, there is the government-owned Casino Niagara. With 140 betting tables and 2,700 singing, pinging, ringing slot machines, it has attracted more than 50 million visitors, about half from the United States, over the last six years.
At night, the skyline on the Canadian side of the river glows like a honky-tonk Oz; on the American side, all that is visible is a brightly lit Days Inn. But it is the daytime view across the river that really rankles the Americans: half a dozen construction cranes. 
Over there, "everybody's working," said Robert M. Lotempio, 51, a construction worker and musician.
He is now working, too, in the frantic effort to make a silken casino out of a sow's ear of a convention center. 
"In 1974, it was state of the art," said G. Michael Brown, president of the Seneca Niagara Falls Gaming Corporation. "Only nobody spent a dime on it since."
Since late September, two shifts have been working 10 hours a day; in the first days of December, the site was abuzz as workers laid rugs, set tiles and spread concrete.
The Senecas are paying for all this with an $80 million loan at an eyebrow-raising 29 percent interest rate from the Malaysian family that bankrolled the Foxwoods Resort Casino in southeastern Connecticut.
Hiring so many people so fast is another challenge, though not because there is a shortage of candidates. Since hiring began in October, 7,000 people have applied for jobs as croupiers, slot attendants, security guards and cashiers. In a nearby defunct mall, 325 would-be dealers are being trained in backgammon, baccarat and craps (the hardest to master, judging by the sighs and eye-rolling at the practice table).
One disadvantage for casino workers, said Vivian Zaepfel, 42, who is applying to be a slots attendant, is that "they won't let us play." But, she added, it will be more fun than her old job at a tire company, which closed its offices in June.
Disadvantages for the city include the uncertainties. The agreement between the state and the Senecas has guidelines about how much casino money the state will give to the host cities, but the details are still vague. 
Then there is the matter of having a sovereign nation within the city. For example, how will city and tribal police hand off a chase that moves from one jurisdiction to the other?
Over at St. Mary's, a Roman Catholic church that may end up being encircled by tribal land, the Rev. Michael H. Burzynski is more concerned about who will do the snowplowing, especially since he has rented out 80 church parking spaces to the casino on weekdays. "We're like the Vatican," he said, "surrounded by another nation." 
The big test for Niagara Falls will be whether the casino's benefits spill over into the rest of the economy, said the mayor, Irene J. Elia. She noted that there was already a plan from a Buffalo developer to turn an empty Art Deco office building into apartments and stores.
Local real estate is also starting to perk up, said Michael A. Johnson, the commercial manager for Niagara County at RealtyUSA. Hotels planning to expand have recently paid as much as $100,000 for houses downtown that previously would have gone for $55,000 or less.
Even the Press Box is already getting more business from construction workers attracted by the spaghetti special for 99 cents (meatballs are 40 cents apiece).
That helps explain why Mr. Brown at the casino is exasperated with Mrs. Acotto and her fuss over the free liquor. "That place was dead after 9 o'clock," he said. "If you go in on a Thursday night at 10 and there are 30 patrons, 28 of them work here."
Free drinks are common at most American casinos but not at the Canadian one, Mr. Brown said, so they will help his casino compete. As a courtesy, he has filled out an application for a state liquor license, but because the casino is on Indian land, he does not expect the State Liquor Authority's rules to apply.
But after a call to the authority, Mrs. Acotto thinks there will be some limits on the free liquor, so her ruffled feathers have been smoothed, for now. She has reverted to her original opinion supporting the casino.
"It'll work, as long as they keep the politicians out of it," she said. "They'd mess up a one-car funeral." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, the casino being built in a former convention center. Florence Acotto worried for a while that it might put her bar out of business.; Trainees for a new casino in Niagara Falls, N.Y. The casino is part of a new sovereign territory of the Seneca Indian Nation. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Niagara Falls has embraced the casino and its promise of 2,000 jobs. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); APPROVALS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); LITIGATION (50%) SENECA NATION OF INDIANS; CASINOS; GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

PERSON: LAFALCE, JOHN J (REP); EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NIAGARA FALLS (NY); NEW YORK STATE; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



372 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: The Specter of a Transit Strike 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "A Union on the Wrong Track" (editorial, Dec. 11), you suggest that the transit workers would "lose all claim to public support" if they struck. 
 Over the last decade, only the rich benefited from the Wall Street boom. 
Most of us spent that time struggling to pay our bills and to put food on the table. Now we're expected to pay for the economic crisis with reduced services, higher costs of living and lower pay.
The money is there. Our government has squandered billions in tax breaks for the rich. If the city and the state refuse to alter their priorities to meet the needs of working people, we have every right to fight for that money. And the transit workers have every right to strike to get the contract they deserve.
If they do, they deserve our support, because they're fighting for all of us. 
JENNIFER ROESCH
New York, Dec. 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STRIKES (73%); COST OF LIVING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; STRIKES 

PERSON: ROESCH, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



373 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela On the Brink Of Violence, Mediator Says 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Ten days into a nationwide strike that has crippled Venezuela's economy, a diplomat trying to break the impasse between President Hugo Ch vez and strike organizers said today that the government's denial of the grave nature of the crisis was impeding negotiations. 
 He warned that violence could erupt within days if an agreement was not reached. 
 C sar Gaviria, secretary general of the Organization of American States, who is mediating the talks, said negotiators for the leftist president have insisted in talks this week that the strike called by Mr. Ch vez's foes has yet to affect the nation severely. 
Since the strike was called last week by Mr. Ch vez's opponents, oil production in Venezuela, one of the major suppliers of crude oil to the United States, has dropped by 70 percent, food is growing scarce, gasoline is running out and panicky shoppers are invading increasingly empty markets.
Still, the government's representatives "say there is no strike," Mr. Gaviria said.
"They say everyone is working," he said, "that what we have is sabotage in the oil industry. Because they have such different views of reality, it is very difficult to have an agreement." His unusually strong comments to foreign reporters seemed to be aimed at underscoring the urgency of the situation.
Across the negotiating table, a once-fractious opposition is now united in demanding that Mr. Ch vez agree to elections before April, Mr. Gaviria said.
The two sides need to "negotiate soon, in the next few days," he said, "or we will find increasing demands by the opposition, and that may take Venezuela to a confrontation with a high risk of violence." He appeared to be laying the responsibility with a government that refused to acknowledge the crisis.
Mr. Ch vez, for his part, continued to minimize the problem, telling reporters today that "the situation is improving in a progressive manner."
Government officials said that two oil tankers whose crews had declared themselves in rebellion last week were in government control and that other tankers were being loaded with crude. Oil analysts and executives at the government-owned oil company, though, said the oil industry was far from being normal.
Mr. Gaviria's concerns about the chances of resolving the crisis were evident in the attitude of the opposition, a collection of business, labor and political groups that senses that victory is within reach. As negotiations continued today, it appeared that the opposition was stepping up its demands on Mr. Ch vez.
Rafael Alfonso, an opposition negotiator, said his side wanted a referendum on Feb. 2 on a proposal to amend the Constitution to allow new elections. The opposition also demands Mr. Ch vez's immediate resignation, though he could run in the new elections.
Government negotiators and their allies have ridiculed the call for Mr. Ch vez to resign, noting that the president, a former paratrooper was freely elected in 1998.
The situation was far different just a few days ago.
Opponents had been pushing for a nonbinding referendum in February asking voters whether they wanted Mr. Ch vez as president or not. The opponents hoped to embarrass Mr. Ch vez, who is not up for re-election until 2006, into resigning.
Mr. Ch vez's government resisted. The president disparaged his critics as fascists and coup plotters, characterizing their efforts as little different from a series of strikes that led to his temporary ouster in April.
So when a national strike began on Dec. 2, the government belittled its effects. To be sure, the strike had lost much of its momentum by the next day, with many businesses opening.
But then the authorities broke up an antigovernment rally with tear gas, leading to charges of government repression that, magnified by ferociously antigovernment news organizations, gave new life to the opposition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BULK SHIPPING (74%); REFERENDUMS (69%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%) STRIKES; LABOR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (78%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); GAVIRIA, CESAR (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



374 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Middle East: American-Arab Conference Set 

BYLINE:  By Abeer Allam (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The American-Arab Chamber of Commerce and other American-Arab institutions announced in Cairo that the first United States-Arab economic forum would be held in Detroit, May 15-17, 2003, to promote the $50 billion American-Arab annual trade. The conference will focus on fostering stronger economic and commercial ties between the United States and the Arab world, modernizing the Arab societies, creating jobs for thousands of unemployed Arab youth, and helping bridge the technological and economic gaps between the Arab world and the United States, the American-Arab delegates said in a joint news conference with the Arab League. Abeer Allam (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ARAB AMERICANS (86%); JOB CREATION (85%); PRESS CONFERENCES (85%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (53%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARAB-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (57%) AMERICAN-ARAB CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 

PERSON: ALLAM, ABEER 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (90%) MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



375 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: McGreevey Falls In Poll 

BYLINE:  By Stacy Albin (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Gov. James E. McGreevey's approval has declined to 37 percent of registered voters, the lowest level since he took office nearly 11 months ago, according to a poll released yesterday. 
Thirty-three percent of voters approve of how Mr. McGreevey has handled the state budget, taxes, the economy and jobs. But only 7 percent of poll respondents blamed Governor McGreevey for the budget deficit, with 35 percent blaming former Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. Thirty-two percent cited the weak economy and 18 percent blamed the State Legislature. The latest poll by Quinnipiac University surveyed 934 registered voters Dec. 3 to 9. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Stacy Albin (NYT)

GRAPHIC:  Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (88%); POLITICS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%); BUDGET DEFICITS (84%) GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: ALBIN, STACY; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



376 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: The Capital Makes Up Its Mind 

BYLINE:  By Timothy Garton Ash; Timothy Garton Ash is author, most recently, of "History of the Present: Essays, Sketches and Dispatches from Europe in the 1990's."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Coming to the hyperpower capital from peace-torn Europe, I find three things. Washington is at war. Washington is probably going to war. And Washington is starting to think about a peace to end both wars -- the war on terrorism and the likely war with Iraq. People in Europe, and the world beyond, need to wake up to all three realities.
 There is some confusion here between the two wars. Sometimes when Washingtonians say "war" they mean the war against terrorism, which they are still living intensely in everyday life. Sometimes they mean war with Iraq, which now seems more likely than ever. 
 Saddam Hussein's stubborn claim that he has no more weapons of mass destruction is a blow to those who had hoped for a peaceful solution to the Iraq crisis and a gift to those who think toppling him by force is the only path to effective disarmament. My own impression from talking to people inside and close to the Bush administration is that the Iraq war is now a matter of when and how rather than whether.
With his 12,000-page report to the United Nations, Saddam Hussein has written perhaps the longest suicide note in history. Of course, the Bush administration wants multilateral and United Nations support for a military operation, so it will let the United Nations inspectors run around trying to verify Mr. Hussein's claims. But the administration's own intelligence sources are apparently saying that he's lying again. If need be, the administration may share some of that intelligence to get support from the Security Council and the public in the United States and Europe. Then it will take action.
As for rationale, I've heard Americans voice all the same theories about President Bush's motivation expressed by supposedly anti-American Europeans: that he's doing it to distract attention from economic problems at home. (Senator John Kerry recently raised this charge.) That the reason is oil. That he's completing unfinished business from the first Bush administration's Persian Gulf war. That it's a grudge match to topple the man who tried to kill Mr. Bush's father. That he's going after Saddam Hussein because he can't find Osama bin Laden. That it's about winning the next presidential election.
At the same time, I've also heard the case for war from liberals who have supported humanitarian intervention in Bosnia, Kosovo and elsewhere. They say Saddam Hussein is guilty of using weapons of mass destruction against his neighbors and his own people, and the only sure way to disarm him is to depose him.
What strikes me most, however, is how much people in Washington really do regard the likely war with Iraq as part of an ongoing war against terrorism.
When I say Washington is at war, I'm not just using Washington as diplomatic shorthand for the United States. I mean Washington, this freezing, handsome, driven, one-topic city on the Potomac, and specifically, its Republican elites.
Last weekend, in the American heartland of Kansas and Missouri, I asked farmers, students and Friday night casino-goers whether they felt they were at war. Answers ranged from a hesitant "Not really" to "Well, sort of." Here in Washington, the answer given by people close to the administration is a resounding yes.
Around the dinner table, people still relive their Sept. 11 experiences: chaotic office evacuations, the smoke from the Pentagon, the wild rumors. The more affluent stockpiled antidotes to anthrax, gas masks, emergency food supplies in the cellar, even pills that are supposed to alleviate the effects of a dirty bomb. Though the expected follow-up to last year's attacks has not yet come, people feel it's only a matter of time until it does.
When I lived here for a year in the 1980's, Washington seemed an unreal city. All the world's problems -- war, famine, disease, revolution -- were discussed over breakfast, yet none directly affected daily life in plush offices and pleasant suburbs. That has changed. Public and private have merged traumatically. The closer you are to the heart of power, it seems, the more alarmed you are by the myriad plausible scenarios for terrorist attacks. "It's really scary when you start looking at it in detail," one senior official told me. So whatever the actual facts, and however remote this experience is from the reality of war in places like Bosnia, Washington feels itself to be at war. That is a municipal fact of world importance.
But Washington is not just sitting around feeling scared. It's not just preparing to prosecute the Iraq war. Amply conscious of being the imperial capital of the most powerful country in the history of the world, it is also beginning to think big about the path to a peace that is supposed to end both wars. An administration that came into office ideologically opposed to American involvement in nation-building in foreign countries is now plainly committed to the long haul of nation-building in postwar Iraq.
And that's for starters. A new, democratic and prosperous Iraq is to be a model for its neighbors, as West Germany was for its unfree neighbors during the cold war. Some in Washington now talk of encouraging a velvet revolution to democratize Iran. Then there's the United States' rich and friendly but oppressive ally, Saudi Arabia, with its Wahhabi hate wells beside those oil wells. No one in the administration yet says this publicly, but there is a logic that leads from the democratization of Iraq to that of Saudi Arabia.
And so people are talking quietly here about a Wilsonian project for reshaping the whole Middle East, a plan comparable in its ambition to those for Europe in 1919 and 1949. World-weary Europeans, and people in the Middle East, may doubt the feasibility of this idea and the United States' capacity to sustain it. We Europeans would better spend our time thinking how to complement and improve it.
Of course the "Washington" I write about is, in some measure, a term of art. Here, as everywhere, there are widely diverging views. But the sense of war and the great changes that must flow from it is palpable here as nowhere else. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); DESERT STORM (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); POLITICS (67%); SUICIDE (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); ELECTIONS (63%); LIBERALISM (63%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; PUBLIC OPINION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) GARTON ASH, TIMOTHY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOSOVO (79%); GULF STATES (73%) IRAQ; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



377 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Gets Deal to Expand Smoking Curbs 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
New York City will enact a sweeping ban on indoor smoking that will include nearly all bars and restaurants, under an agreement announced yesterday between the Bloomberg administration and the City Council.
 The deal means that lawmakers have agreed to one of the toughest antismoking laws in the country, and it comes at a time when many localities both here and abroad are either passing or considering similar legislation. 
 Suffolk and Westchester Counties have proposals under consideration, and yesterday the Boston Public Health Commission voted to ban smoking in its 2,300 bars and restaurants as well, according to Kristin O'Connor, a commission spokeswoman.
"Because of this legislation, it's literally true that something like a thousand people will not die each year that would have otherwise died," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in announcing the agreement. 
The city already has in place a 1995 law that forbids smoking in all restaurants with more than 35 seats, but it excludes stand-alone bars and the bar areas of restaurants. In August, Mr. Bloomberg asked the City Council to extend the restrictions, saying he was concerned about the health of those working in establishments where smoking is allowed.
Passage of Mr. Bloomberg's proposal became one of the signal priorities of his first year in office. In its original form, it would have added roughly 13,000 establishments that would have to ban smoking entirely.
But council members had balked both at the way Mr. Bloomberg presented his bill and at its scope. The agreement includes several exemptions that the mayor agreed to after extensive negotiations between his office and City Council leaders. The exempted establishments include a handful of cigar bars already in operation, bars with no employees except the owners, nonprofit membership clubs with no employees, and bars or certain health care facilities with enclosed smoking rooms.
The law, which could come to a vote next week and go into effect as early as March, does not go as far as a recently enacted law in neighboring Nassau County.
In some ways, it would also not go as far as California's state ban, which outlawed smoking in bars in 1998. Like the proposed New York City law, that law granted an exception to bars with no employees, but did not include a provision for bars with specially ventilated rooms. But that law did not ban smoking at outdoor arenas and stadiums, which the current city law does.
Both Mr. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, said they felt the new law would go far in protecting the health of workers.
"It's a bill I can work with," Mr. Bloomberg said. "I would have of course preferred the original version, but we live in a democracy and the City Council felt strongly about a handful of carve-outs, and I said in the end fine."
Mr. Miller had withheld his support for the bill while council leaders negotiated several other pressing measures, including the recent modification of the city's budget. Yesterday he said he was satisfied with the compromise. "No one should have to choose between their health and their job," Mr. Miller said. "The purpose here is not to punish smokers, but to protect employees."
The mayor's proposal elicited some of the biggest jeers of his mayoralty, with critics jamming a City Council hearing room and angry denunciations filling the letters-to-the-editor columns of the city's newspapers. The proposal was denounced both for infringing on the rights of smokers and for potentially hurting the city's tourist, entertainment and night-life industries.
But Mr. Bloomberg dismissed the criticism, and said again yesterday that he did not think the new law would have a devastating economic impact. Instead, he characterized the city's agreement as part of a national and international trend and said "restrictions on smoking in the workplace, which includes bars and restaurants, is an idea whose time has come." 
Hundreds of localities have some variation on laws against public smoking, many with their own exceptions, like allowing people to light up in stand-alone bars or permitting smoking in restaurant bars that have separate ventilation systems.
The ban as currently envisioned by New York City lawmakers has its own exceptions. Although it would prohibit smoking in restaurants, bars (including hotel bars), sports stadiums, billiard parlors, bingo halls and schools, the law would allow for smoking in separate, enclosed rooms in bars and nightclubs that employees do not generally enter and which are used solely for smoking. The ventilation requirements for those rooms, however, are so extensive that few officials believe businesses would take advantage of the provision, especially since the exception expires three years after the law goes into effect.
While eliminating existing smoking rooms in workplaces like schools and sports arenas, the new law would leave in place an exception for smoking rooms in residential health care facilities, like those for recovering substance abusers.
The law would also increase the fines for violations, in some cases by more than 100 percent, to be levied against the owners of bars or other establishments. The penalty for certain first offenses would jump to $200 to $400, from $100 to $200, while the penalty for some offenses committed three or more times within a year would jump to $1,000 to $2,000, from $500 to $1000.
The city's health commissioner, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, hailed the agreement. "More than 400,000 nonsmoking New York City workers will soon be free from having to risk cancer, lung disease and heart disease just to hold a job," he said.
Advocates for the workplace ban were similarly pleased with the agreement, arguing that from a public health standpoint, the exceptions would have little effect. Even council officials concede that they are aware of no bars that fit the definition of the owner-operated establishment.
Representatives of the bar industry criticized the agreement, including the exemptions.
"We cannot find this really tiny bar," said Ciaran Staunton, who owns O'Neill's on Third Avenue between 45th and 46th Streets. "It's a red herring. It's thrown in there to make it look like they've done some work."
"Just get a nice gravestone and put 'Bar Owner' on it," he added.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); SMOKING BANS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); HEALTH CARE (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%) SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BARS; RESTAURANTS; FINES (PENALTIES); ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) CARDWELL, DIANE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



378 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: WAR MAT RIEL; 
Reluctant U.S. Gives Assent For Missiles to Go to Yemen

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
President Bush reluctantly ordered the Navy today to release a North Korean ship bound for Yemen with 15 Scud missiles, after Yemen's president told Vice President Dick Cheney in a tense telephone call that the United States had no right to seize weapons he had legally bought, officials said.
 Administration officials conceded that the release of the unmarked ship and the missiles brought an embarrassing diplomatic end to an otherwise successful military interdiction of North Korean missiles. By coincidence, it came on the day the administration sent Congress a new strategy for countering weapons of mass destruction that advocates American interdiction of weapons thought to be a threat. 
 The ship was stopped by two Spanish warships on Monday, and the missiles, discovered hidden beneath sacks of cement, were catalogued and secured by American explosives experts. The freighter was turned over to the United States Navy. 
But early this afternoon, the White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, told reporters that "we have looked at this matter thoroughly, and there is no provision under international law prohibiting Yemen from accepting delivery of missiles from North Korea."
That decision was particularly painful to the White House, officials acknowledged privately, because American intelligence agencies believe that North Korea uses the hard currency from sales of its Scud and Nodong missiles to pay for both its missile program and its effort to develop nuclear weapons.
The decision came after Mr. Cheney tried to persuade President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen to give up delivery of the battlefield-range missiles, the same kind Yemen has bought from North Korea before.
Mr. Cheney then consulted with Mr. Bush, and afterward the Yemeni leader -- who also spoke today with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell -- was told that he could have the ship's contents. Administration officials said Mr. Saleh had agreed to keep control of the missiles and not pass them on to either Iraq or terrorist groups. The State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, also said Secretary Powell had received assurances from Mr. Saleh that no more Scuds would be bought from North Korea.
Mr. Cheney's involvement underscored the sensitivity of the diplomatic task. He and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld have been outspoken about the need to cut off North Korea's sources of income and highly critical of its sale of weapons to other countries. But administration officials acknowledged that it was impossible not to yield to Yemen's request for the missiles because of its strategic location and its cooperation in the American fight against Al Qaeda.
To that end, Yemen has gone so far as to let the Central Intelligence Agency operate pilotless Predator drone aircraft over its territory. A Predator fired a Hellfire antitank missile in Yemen last month, killing six suspected Qaeda operatives. Officials said a senior leader of Al Qaeda, Qaed Salim Sinan al-Harethi, was among the dead.
"I suppose we could have seized the ship for a while and delayed the delivery," one senior administration official said tonight. "But what purpose would it have served? Why anger the Yemenis if we ultimately were going to have to turn it over?"
There was little doubt that maritime law allowed the initial, temporary seizure of the freighter. American and Spanish officials said it was sailing without a flag and had its identification markings obscured by paint, rendering it a lawless, stateless vessel comparable to a pirate ship.
Neither North Korea nor Yemen has signed the Missile Technology Control Regime, which seeks to limit the spread of missiles capable of carrying weapons of mass destruction. The sale of Scuds, therefore, was not illegal. But the ship's anonymity and hidden missile cargo indicated that at the least, North Korea sought to avoid discovery.
"I think most people would see this as a clear indication that there was no interest on the part of North Korea in being upfront about what it was doing," said one Pentagon official. "Why else would they have hid the cargo, filed an improper manifest, and told the captain to give false stories about where he was going? North Korea was not trying to do this in an overt way."
As of tonight, North Korea had no official comment on the incident.
In August, the North was penalized by the United States for a similar sale to Yemen; that time it was Scud missile components. The penalties, which singled out the North's work on missile technology, were largely symbolic, because the United States had already severed any economic ties.
Today's situation mirrored one last month, involving Pakistan's purchase of missile parts from North Korea. In that case, too, American intelligence tracked the transaction but was unable to stop it or dissuade Pakistan, which has been a critical ally in the American military campaign in Afghanistan.
Asked today whether the United States had thought Iraq -- which has no history of buying from North Korea -- was the intended recipient of the missiles, American officials said it had been considered a possibility.
If Iraq had been the buyer, not only would confiscating the shipment have been legal under United Nations resolutions, but Iraq would also have been in material breach of those resolutions. The missiles would have given the United States grounds for war.
Today, Mr. Fleischer called the effort against the freighter "a very successful coalition interdiction."
But that was apparently cold comfort to Mr. Bush, whom a senior official described as "a very, very unhappy man" after deciding to send the ship on its way to Yemen.
Veterans of the Clinton administration, described by Mr. Bush and his aides during the presidential campaign as being too soft on North Korea, said they were stunned by the decision to release the cargo. 
"The administration's actions in this case were confused and contradictory," said Robert Einhorn, who led the nonproliferation efforts in the State Department under Mr. Clinton.
"They must have known the nature of the cargo and the destination from the beginning," he said. "They should have determined at the outset whether they were ready to see it through. Now, having reversed themselves, how can they go to other countries and try to discourage them from purchasing North Korean missiles?"
Mr. Bush's decision also brought sharp criticism late today from Rep. Edward J. Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who is co-chairman of the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Non-Proliferation.
"The Bush administration, in its focus on disarming Iraq, appears to be ignoring other potential threats to our security," he said. "Before it let the North Korean vessel go, it should have demanded a full and complete investigation of the circumstances surrounding this entire incident."
Mr. Rumsfeld, touring the Horn of Africa this week, expressed his irritation today at North Korean officials.
"They continue to be the single largest proliferator of ballistic missile technology on the face of the Earth, and they are putting into the hands of many countries the technologies and capabilities which have the potential for killing hundreds of thousands of people," Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters in Djibouti.
In Madrid today, the Spanish defense minister, Federico Trillo, gave new details of how two of its warships hailed, halted and boarded the cargo ship.
Mr. Trillo said the Spanish frigate Navarra fired three bursts of warning shots at the cargo vessel, which was believed to have been registered previously in Cambodia and named So San, after it tried to evade the warship. "There was no option but to board the vessel," he said.
Spanish snipers shot out metal cables crisscrossing the deck to allow a helicopter to hover overhead while seven armed marines were lowered down to the freighter. The freighter's crew offered no resistance. A second Spanish team then came aboard.
A search of the ship, which had last docked in China, turned up "15 complete Scud missiles, with 15 conventional, high-explosive warheads and 23 tanks of nitric acid," Mr. Trillo said. Eighty-five barrels of chemicals were also on board; they are still being identified.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Spanish marines boarding the North Korean freighter on Monday before a search turned up 15 Scud missiles. (Spanish Defense Ministry, via Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); The Spanish Navy found bags of cement hiding cases filled with Scud missiles, warheads and fuel from North Korea on an unflagged ship. (Spanish Defense Ministry, via Associated Press)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (94%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); AL-QAEDA (85%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%); AL-QAEDA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (56%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (89%) SANGER, DAVID E; SHANKER, THOM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); SALEH, ALI ABDULLAH (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAQ (92%) YEMEN; NORTH KOREA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



379 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: An Outsider, Wounded in a Combative Industry 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
With only three months of industry experience under his belt, United Airlines' chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, has begun the daunting task of hauling his company out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and critics are already jumping on him for the few maneuvers he has tried.
 Even in the best of circumstances, Mr. Tilton, a former ChevronTexaco executive, would face an uphill battle as an outsider in an industry where the management culture is xenophobic. Unfortunately for him, he is also mired in the worst financial crisis ever to touch United and has no time to figure out a rough-and-tumble industry that has been brutal to outsiders even in calmer times. 
 "Here's a guy who -- after the ship struck the iceberg and all the compartments were full of water -- was handed the helm and was not only told, 'Right the ship' but 'bring it into port,' " said Robert W. Mann Jr., president of R. W. Mann Inc., an airline consulting firm in Port Washington, N.Y. "It's almost a no-win proposition." 
Industry executives and analysts say airline newcomers have a particularly hard time figuring out which course to follow for many reasons. Along with the issues faced by any service-oriented business, like dealing with consumers and with stiff competition, the airlines are known for a combative atmosphere and an overwhelming emphasis on seniority.
Also making airlines particularly difficult to manage, these experts say, are the myriad government safety regulations, the constant need to update technology and equipment, and the frequent entanglements with unions.
"It is an enormously complicated system, different from any other business," said Robert L. Crandall, the retired chairman and chief executive of American Airlines, whose airline career spanned three decades. 
"I don't think it's fair to say that nobody who comes in from the outside succeeds," he said. "But inviting someone in from the outside means a very long learning curve." 
Mr. Tilton does not have that luxury. He came onboard in September after a lengthy search in which several industry veterans declined to be considered -- it was said because they were skittish about dealing with United's unions, which control 55 percent of the airline's stock and hold two of the three employee board seats.
Mr. Tilton chose to make relations with employees his top priority, even over the company's pending application for $1.8 billion in loan guarantees from the Air Transportation Stabilization Board. Rather than become the airline's public face in its most critical hours, Mr. Tilton remained behind the scenes, communicating with employees in person and through a telephone hot line. Last week, as a decision by the loan guarantee board drew near, Mr. Tilton flew to San Francisco to meet with mechanics, hoping he could persuade them to reverse their rejection of concessions the company thought would help it win the loan guarantees.
He made the trip not knowing that the board was planning to rule that day, a signal some read as an indication that Mr. Tilton and his staff were out of the industry loop.
That trip earned him waves of criticism. Even some of United's 13,000 mechanics were unhappy that he met with groups of about 80 at a time, instead of en masse in a hangar, as a former chief executive, Gerald Greenwald, once did.
"Everybody wants to see the pope, and he should have done that," said Charlie Stewart, a lead mechanic and shop steward for the International Association of Machinists.
In an interview on Monday, shortly after the bankruptcy filing, Mr. Tilton defended his choice of emphasizing employee relationships even above a public campaign for the loan guarantees. "I don't think you can bludgeon your employees into performance," he said. 
This week, he has held still more meetings with employees in Chicago, Denver and San Francisco, even as the company announced that it would cut pay and would seek further concessions from union members.
Mr. Tilton, who led Texaco through its own financial crisis before the merger with Chevron, said he was not daunted by his lack of airline industry experience. "I think frankly business is business, and this is a very straightforward march," he said. "What you have to do to win isn't at all different than what you have to do in any other business."
The track record for executives who come to airlines from other companies is certainly mixed, even for those who were successful elsewhere. Among those who were intrigued, only to depart in frustration, were Mr. Greenwald, the former Chrysler president who ran United in the 1990's; Carl C. Icahn, the billionaire financier who invested in T.W.A.; and notably, Warren E. Buffett, the fabled investor who fulfilled a lifelong aviation desire by purchasing a stake in US Airways. 
Still, few chief executives have been set upon in the way Mr. Tilton has been by his competitors, including American, Northwest and Continental. They successfully argued for rejection of the loan guarantees, saying United's projections for the industry were too optimistic and its concessions from unions too stingy to warrant approval.
Mr. Tilton found himself the target of barbs from Gordon M. Bethune, Continental's chief executive, who called him "clueless" about the industry days before the United application was rejected. 
Mr. Tilton, laughing, said he did not take Mr. Bethune's jab seriously, adding that the exercise was a valuable lesson for himself and United's employees. "Our competitors have made their intentions and opinions known," he said.
Indeed, the attacks Mr. Tilton has encountered in his short tenure pale beside the verbal and legal battles that Sir Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways, has engaged in during nearly 20 years in the business.
Sir Richard won millions from British Airways in a dispute over tactics that, he contended, his big competitor used to thwart the company. "Our rivals said, 'How on earth can an entertainment entrepreneur get into the airline business?' " Sir Richard recalled by telephone from the terrace of his home on Necker Island in the Caribbean.
Echoing the perception that a boys' club of United States airline executives schemed to thwart Mr. Tilton's bid before the loan guarantee board, a collaboration that Mr. Bethune has denied, Sir Richard said he underwent similar torment. 
"It was a boys' club in the dastardly English way of being polite on the outside" and arranging to do harm behind the scenes, he said. "Anybody heading an airline has to know that you can strip a lot of profits from your rivals very quickly, and then they'll go after you."
But among the biggest domestic airlines these days, there are scant profits to be had rather stiff wars to attract passengers and battles with unions to win concessions.
Mr. Tilton, the third United chief executive in 14 months, is vowing to stick with the company through the bankruptcy process and is seeking help in mapping the airline's future.
On Monday, United said it had retained McKinsey & Company as consultants, and yesterday Mr. Tilton announced that Douglas A. Hacker, a former chief financial officer who had been in charge of another airline unit, would take a new executive position over airline strategy.
For the moment, United's directors, including union representatives, have voiced satisfaction with their rookie chief executive. "I have not heard negatives from anyone on our board," said John Van de Kamp, a United director and former attorney general of California.
And Paul Whiteford, chairman of the master executive council of the Air Line Pilots Association at United, and one of the board's employee representatives, added: "This board is acting with consensus in a very businesslike manner. There is no tension or animosity among the board members." 
Of Mr. Tilton, Mr. Whiteford said, "He's learned very quickly what needs to be fixed and what doesn't have to be fixed."
Even Mr. Stewart, the mechanic, said he was impressed by his encounter last week with Mr. Tilton in San Francisco. Despite Mr. Tilton's lack of experience, "we felt he is the guy, we trust him," Mr. Stewart said. At the same time, he added, "we told him we've heard this before."
Mr. Tilton pledged that he would continue to be candid as he learned more about the airline business and mastered United's challenges. Indeed, he said this week that the airline's employees faced two choices: join with him in his drive to fix the airline, or risk seeing it liquidated in a Chapter 7 proceeding. 
Mr. Tilton said he had no doubt that employees would join him. "You have to be aligned," he said. "That's not clueless, that's simple good business."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Glenn F. Tilton, United Airlines' chief, discussing this week's bankruptcy filing. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Glenn F. Tilton, United's chief, with a ticket counter agent the other day at Los Angeles Airport. He has emphasized contact with employees. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); CHEVRON CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (91%) MAYNARD, MICHELINE; TILTON, GLENN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



380 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Chile Reach Free Trade Accord 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER with LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
The United States and Chile reached a free trade agreement today, a pact that the administration hopes will become a springboard for negotiating a broader agreement for the entire Western Hemisphere.
 If approved by Congress, the agreement would eliminate tariffs immediately on 85 percent of goods traded between the countries and tariffs on all goods within 12 years. 
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, told reporters that the agreement came at an important moment with the visit of President-elect Luiz In cio Lula da Silva of Brazil, who will be co-president of talks to establish a Free Trade Area of the Americas by 2005.
"The importance extends beyond this agreement," Mr. Zoellick said. "I believe this gives us a leg up on hemisphere talks." 
The United States is Chile's leading trade partner; the total of goods and services traded between the countries is $8.8 billion.
While the agreement will have larger economic repercussions for Chile than the United States, it demonstrates that President Bush is making use of the "fast track" authority granted him by Congress earlier this year. Fast track authority allows the president to negotiate trade deals that can only be approved or rejected by Congress. 
After last month's announcement of a tentative pact with Singapore, Mr. Zoellick said that President Bush hoped to give Congress two new bilateral trade agreements to consider early next year, adding to the existing four agreements with Israel, Canada, Mexico and Jordan.
The Republican-controlled Congress is expected to approve both agreements. But three Democratic lawmakers said today that they were unhappy that the administration wanted to bar any regulation of short-term capital flows.
Countries like Chile are concerned that large flows of money in or out can make it difficult for them to protect banking and financial services.
Singapore has balked at accepting that prohibition, which has stalled a final agreement. The Democratic representatives -- Sander M. Levin of Michigan, Robert T. Matusi of California and Barney Frank of Massachusetts -- agree with Singapore that countries have a right to ask for controls on volatile capital flows. They wrote to Mr. Zoellick today saying countries should be able to "curb hot money, which can have a destabilizing effect on the global financial system."
At a news conference today, Mr. Zoellick said Chile and the United States had reached a compromise that allowed for some controls on capital flows that he thinks could be acceptable to Singapore. 
The pact with Chile would eliminate tariffs, reduce barriers for services, seek to protect intellectual property, call for regulations on financial disclosures and set some labor and environmental standards. 
Mr. Zoellick said that the agreement with Chile would be a boon for American farmers and ranchers who have been kept out of the Chilean market by European and Canadian farmers whose countries already have a free trade agreement with Chile.
The National Association of Manufacturers estimates that American exporters lost $800 million in sales to Chile last year for lack of a free trade agreement. As an example, Mr. Zoellick cited the $13,090 in tariffs on an American-made tractor sold in Chile while no tariff is imposed on the same tractor made in Canada.
The Chilean government reacted more with relief than exhilaration to the announcement of the trade agreement. The accord caps nearly a decade of negotiations in which frustrated Chilean officials have often questioned the seriousness and sincerity of their American counterparts.
"This is a good agreement that is going to mean more jobs, more work, more development and more growth," President Ricardo Lagos of Chile said today in Santiago. "I believe it is good news for Chile."
The administration's broader goal of creating a free trade zone throughout the Western Hemisphere comes at a time when the region is in political and economic upheaval. Argentina's economy is going through a meltdown and Brazil, the largest economy in South America, is going through a painful political transition. The chaos in Venezuela threatens the region's largest oil supplier.
The first contacts about an agreement took place in 1990 under the first Bush administration. When the Clinton administration secured passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Chile was told it would be next in line for trade liberalization, but little progress was made because Republicans in Congress refused to approve the fast track authority that Mr. Clinton was seeking.
As Washington wavered during the rest of the decade, Chile negotiated free trade accords with several other countries, including Canada and Mexico, the United States's partners in Nafta. Early this year, Chile reached an agreement with the European Union, which will immediately lift all tariffs on nearly 90 percent of Chilean exports when it takes effect on Jan. 1.
In contrast, it would take up to 12 years before all tariffs with the United States are lifted. Chile's principal exports to the United States include fruit, fish and wine, and exporters said it appeared that tariffs on many of those products would be eliminated gradually.
Measured in absolute terms, the lowering of bilateral trade barriers is likely to have little impact on the American economy. Chile has the 43rd largest economy and accounts for less than 1 percent of total global commerce: it exported about $3.3 billion in goods to the United States last year and imported $2.9 billion.
But Chile has the most market-friendly economy in Latin America, an economy that in some ways is more open than that of the United States. Chilean leaders thus have been looking to a free trade agreement with the United States as a payoff for the reforms they have made, often at considerable political and economic cost.
In an essay that was published over the weekend, the former minister of foreign relations, Hern n Err zuriz questioned whether the accord should even be called a free trade agreement."
That is a misnomer, he suggested, for an agreement that "contains quotas for many products, allows the United States to retain broad antidumping attributes and does not control the damage of billions of dollars in distorted agricultural subsidies."
Arguing to the contrary, John O'Leary, the former United States ambassador to Chile during the Clinton administration, said both countries would benefit.
"Chile is the first country in South America to have a free trade agreement with the United States and that is important in itself," Mr. O'Leary said. "This is a landmark decision with broad support in Chile."
For Congress, said Mr. O'Leary, the agreement could be the beginning of a bipartisan policy on international trade.
"That could be the biggest breakthrough of this free trade agreement," Mr. O'Leary said, "a free trade policy both parties can agree on."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Preparing fruit at the port of Valparaiso, Chile, for shipment to the United States. The United States and Chile reached a free trade agreement yesterday. (Carlos Vera)(pg. C1); A shipment from Chile bound for the United States. An agreement between America and Chile would eliminate most tariffs immediately. (Carlos Vera)(pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (62%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (90%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SANDER M LEVIN (57%); BARNEY FRANK (57%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; ROHTER, LARRY; ZOELLICK, ROBERT B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DA SILVA, LUIZ INACIO LULA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHILE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SINGAPORE (94%); CANADA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) CHILE; BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



381 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Associates of Gore, Their Outlook Changed, Are Growing Skeptical That He Will Run in '04 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
In a notable shift of sentiment, several associates of former Vice President Al Gore said today that they were becoming increasingly convinced that he would not run for president in 2004 and would instead announce in early January that he was stepping aside to allow a new face to challenge President Bush.
 These associates emphasized that Mr. Gore had not told them his intentions and that in fact he had not made up his own mind. Given his bitter loss in the presidential election of 2000 and his frequent criticism of Mr. Bush, they cautioned, he could still "wake up one morning and decide to run," as one put it. 
 But in interviews, a half-dozen friends, advisers and other close associates of Mr. Gore, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity and many of whom expressed a wish that he would run, said his demeanor and actions since Election Day had convinced them that this was becoming increasingly unlikely. 
That assessment was starkly different from those previously voiced by Mr. Gore's friends, who had said they expected a run.
In the latest interviews, the associates said that in private conversations in recent days, Mr. Gore had been strikingly more animated when talking about the private life of teaching, writing and speechmaking he has built than when contemplating another two-year race for the White House.
They noted that even as he had taken steps that stirred speculation that he would run -- he said over the weekend that he would deliver speeches next month on the economy and health care -- he had not cultivated contributors and political leaders, as would be customary for someone about to undertake a campaign.
Many of Mr. Gore's associates said he had been disturbed in the last month by what one described as "the baggage he has with the media." Mr. Gore is distressed, one associate said, by a new round of news reports, echoing questions from the 2000 race, about whether he is reinventing himself for a presidential run. This associate described Mr. Gore as convinced that Mr. Bush could be defeated in 2004 but wondering whether another Democrat might be a stronger challenger.
His spokesman, Jano Cabrera, said tonight that Mr. Gore "has not made up his mind as to whether or not he is going to run for president."
"He is currently on a book tour," Mr. Cabrera added, "and he will turn his attention to this question in a serious and focused way at the conclusion of the book tour."
Mr. Gore's decision will have a huge effect on the early dynamics of the Democratic primary campaign. Some advisers said he would be a prohibitive favorite should he decide to run; they pointed to early polls showing him as the leading choice of Democratic primary voters.
But strategists for other Democratic presidential aspirants have welcomed his entrance. They say that should any relatively little-known Democrat defeat him in an early primary, or even come close, that candidate would immediately leap to the head of the pack. Thus, a decision by Mr. Gore to sit out the race could prove disappointing to candidates like Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina.
At the same time, though, it would open the way for Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, Mr. Gore's running mate in 2000, to join the race. Mr. Lieberman, who informed Mr. Gore long ago that he would not run if the former vice president decided to, has spent much of the last month building the foundation of a presidential campaign in the event Mr. Gore skips the run.
Not that Mr. Gore is the only big-name Democrat whose deliberations are being closely watched. The Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, has told others in the party in recent days that he is strongly considering entering the race. An adviser to him said today that he would decide by the middle of next month.
And added to the mix of lesser-known prospects today was one from the military: national Democratic leaders said Gen. Wesley K. Clark, former NATO commander, had told them he too might be interested in running.
In trying to assess Mr. Gore's intentions, some associates described him as content with a life they described as interesting and lucrative. He has a new home in Tennessee, is doing university teaching and paid speechmaking, and works for an asset management firm. 
In addition, the associates said, he is well aware of the anti-Gore sentiment, both inside and outside the party, that lingers from the 2000 race, and is reluctant to proceed with a candidacy if he believes it will diminish the Democrats' chances of winning back the White House.
"He is really sort of assessing whether he is the best person to take on Bush and whether the rest of the party and other people in the country would respond better to somebody new," one close associate said. "He really, really feels that the country is heading in the wrong direction. He certainly has the energy and appetite to do it. But if there's someone else who would really carry the mantle and really be who the party wants, then he's not going to stand in the way of that."
Further, while Mr. Gore has never been much of a traditional political player, he has, by every account, not made the kind of preparatory telephone calls a candidate for president might typically place in anticipation of an announcement.
For example, Donna Brazile, his campaign manager in 2000, said she had not offered him any advice on what he might do, because she had not heard from him in months.
"I haven't reached out to talk to him, because my number is listed," Ms. Brazile said. "I haven't heard from him. I've been talking to Gephardt. I've been talking to Lieberman." 
"In the long run, he will have to fight for the nomination," she said. "It's not a done deal. The party is hungry for new faces."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Gore on the set of ABC's "This Week" for an interview Sunday. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 

PERSON: AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; GORE, AL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



382 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: The Specter of a Transit Strike 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Mayor's Plan for Transit Strike: Sharing Burdens and Back Seats" (front page, Dec. 10): 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to brace for a transit worker strike by encouraging carpooling with strangers and bicycling around the five boroughs shows no leadership acumen.
As a regular New York-Boston commuter, I think that the prudent response if transit workers violate state law by striking is to dismiss them and hire replacements. 
With the unemployment rate rising above 7 percent, plenty of New Yorkers are available. With the mercury falling below 32 degrees, no one should be forced to beg rides in the cold or pedal across ice.

LAWRENCE A. CUNNINGHAM
Boston, Dec. 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STRIKES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; STRIKES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) CUNNINGHAM, LAWRENCE A; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



383 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Lott Apologizes Again on Words About '48 Race 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Trying to quell an uproar over comments he made last week that were criticized as racially divisive, Senator Trent Lott apologized at length today in a radio interview, saying his words were "terrible."
 Taking questions for the first time since a furor erupted over his observation last week that the nation would have been better served had Strom Thurmond been elected president in 1948, Mr. Lott said his words at Senator Thurmond's 100th birthday celebration were "poorly chosen and insensitive." 
 "I regret the way it has been interpreted," he said. 
Until today, Mr. Lott had only expressed regret about his comments in written statements.
Republicans began rallying around Mr. Lott today, but his latest remarks did not satisfy Democrats, who called on Mr. Lott, a Mississippi Republican, to step aside as the incoming majority leader and urged the White House to repudiate the original remarks. Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and a possible presidential contender in 2004, called on Mr. Lott to resign his leadership post.
Mr. Thurmond ran on a segregationist platform in 1948, and Mr. Lott's political adversaries were researching his record in an effort to show that his remark about Mr. Thurmond was part of a pattern.
Critics pointed to Mr. Lott's intercession in the 1980's to try to help Bob Jones University, a conservative Christian college in South Carolina, keep its tax-exempt status despite its prohibition on interracial dating.
"Racial discrimination does not always violate public policy," Mr. Lott, then a congressman, said in the 1981 friend-of-the-court filing.
He cited university admission programs intended to promoted racial diversity. "If racial discrimination in the interest of diversity does not violate public policy," the brief said, "then surely discrimination in the practice of religion is no violation."
Mr. Lott's appearance today on the radio program of the commentator Sean Hannity followed the disclosure on Tuesday that he had expressed a nearly identical sentiment in support of Mr. Thurmond's presidential run at a 1980 campaign rally in Mississippi. Mr. Lott insisted that his intent had been to honor Mr. Thurmond and recognize his work on national defense and fiscal matters, not to endorse discrimination.
"My comments conveyed things I do not intend," he said today, "and I regret and, you know, I apologize for it." 
He said repeatedly that the comments were "a mistake of the head -- and not the heart," employing language used by the Rev. Jesse Jackson in his own presidential run in 1984 when he apologized for a slur against Jews.
Mr. Lott, bolstered by Republican support, said he hoped today's apology would allow people to move beyond the controversy. Tonight, on the CNN program "Larry King Live," he said he was not considering stepping down.
Democrats and other critics called today's apology insufficient in light of Mr. Lott's 1980 remarks.
"I simply do not believe the country can today afford to have someone who has made these statements again and again be the leader of the United States Senate," Senator Kerry said.
Former Vice President Al Gore, one of the first Democrats to speak out strongly against Mr. Lott this week, said he did not believe that Mr. Lott's apology answered the criticism.
"It is simply not credible to state that Thurmond's campaign in 1948 makes him think about national defense," Mr. Gore said of Mr. Lott. "It was a campaign based on segregation." 
Top Republicans in both the House and Senate, after a few days of silence, rallied to Mr. Lott today, saying that he had expressed his remorse and that the matter was being blown out of proportion for political gain. 
"I understand a lot of Democrats and liberals generally have had a hard time recently in trying to come up with an issue," said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a member of the new Senate Republican leadership. "What is disappointing to me is that they are willing to pick something to try to smear somebody rather than engage in some legitimate debate about the economy or national security."
Senator Arlen Specter, a moderate Republican from Pennsylvania, said, "His comment was an inadvertent slip, and his apology should end the discussion."
Representative Tom DeLay, Republican of Texas and the incoming House majority leader, issued a statement saying that Republicans had played a "pivotal role" in enacting civil rights protections.
"Any intimation that those old wounds should be reopened is unhelpful and unwelcome," Mr. DeLay said. "I've worked with Trent Lott for years, and he's always been focused on moving our country forward."
Other Republican lawmakers and top aides said Mr. Lott was probably secure in his leadership post as long as no more damaging revelations emerged and provided that he retained White House support.
"At this point, unless the pressure comes from the White House, I don't think Republicans will call for his resignation," said a senior Congressional official, who added, however, that Lott must face the prospect that he has become a new polarizing figure for the party.
"He has been Newtized," the official said, referring to Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker. 
The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, stood by his defense of Mr. Lott on Tuesday and addressed potential political damage with minorities. 
"The president, as I said yesterday, understands and knows that America is a much richer and better nation as a result of the changes that have been made to our society involving integration and the improvement of relations between races," Mr. Fleischer said.
Republicans and Democrats alike said Mr. Lott's initial comments would make it more difficult for Republicans to attract black and other minority voters, which has been a goal of President Bush. They also noted that Mr. Lott had expressed sympathy for pro-Confederate causes like reinstating the citizenship of Jefferson Davis and that he had appeared before the Council of Conservative Citizens, a group whose leaders have expressed extreme racial views. 
Mr. Lott's support of Bob Jones University came even though the college is in South Carolina, not Mississippi. He said in the court brief that he was acting because his constituents could be affected by a decision against the university. The Supreme Court subsequently voted 8 to 1 to strip the university of its tax exemption.
"It is not like it is just a few things," said David Bositis, senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. "What was most damaging about what he said is that Trent Lott came across as saying what was in his heart."
Mr. Lott, in the radio interview, said the meeting of the Conservative Citizens Council was an open political forum. "You don't usually ask who's sponsoring this thing," he said. 
Representatives of other minorities, including Hispanic and Arab-American civil rights organizations, also called today for Mr. Lott to resign as the Senate majority leader. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus conferred again today on Mr. Lott and could make a declaration of their plans today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Trent Lott said yesterday that he made "poorly chosen" remarks at Senator Strom Thurmond's 100th birthday celebration. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (65%); RELIGION (65%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (64%); TAX LAW (64%) BLACKS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1948; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JESSE JACKSON (52%) HULSE, CARL; LOTT, TRENT (SEN); THURMOND, STROM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



384 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Bank Calls Purchase Way to Woo Hispanics 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Bank of America said today that it would pay $1.6 billion in cash for 24.9 percent of Grupo Financiero Santander Serf n, the most profitable bank in Mexico.
 Bank of America says it will compete with Citigroup for Mexican and Mexican-American customers in the United States. It particularly hopes to win a larger share of fees from the $10 billion in remittances they send to Mexico each year. Those fees are an estimated $1 billion annually. 
 The purchase, from Santander Central Hispano of Spain, adds another United States bank to the already overwhelmingly foreign ownership of financial institutions in Mexico. 
In the years since Mexico's banking crisis, which began with the sudden collapse of the peso in December 1994, its government has been selling the financial institutions it was forced to take over. The largest of these deals was 18 months ago, when Citigroup announced that it was buying Mexico's second-largest bank, Grupo Financiero Banamex, for $12.5 billion in cash and stock. That remains the biggest Latin American acquisition by a United States company to date. 
The peso has stabilized, the government has put together an estimated $100 billion bailout of the banking system, and foreign investment has been spurred by the North American Free Trade Agreement. Today, only one Mexican banking group, Grupo Financiero Banorte, the country's fourth largest, is still owned by the government. 
The increasing intertwining of Mexico's economy with the United States' makes for a growing financial services market. But Mexico's 100 million people have little access to that market. It remains difficult for ordinary middle-class people in Mexico to get a loan, a mortgage or a credit card. 
But Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chairman and chief executive, made it clear today that a primary goal of the deal was to gain more Mexican-American customers in the United States and "dramatically increase our market share" of their remittances. 
More than 21 million people with roots in Mexico live in the United States, a number that grew 53 percent in the 1990's. Roughly 16 million of them live in California, Texas, Arizona, Nevada and New Mexico, states served by Bank of America, Mr. Lewis said. 
The estimated $10 billion a year they pay to send remittances to their families in Mexico is a crucial part of the Mexican economy -- roughly what tourism generates, and almost as much as oil. In some states, such remittances are greater than all government spending.
Roughly 10 percent or more of that money, at least $1 billion a year, is captured in the form of fees paid for wire transfers, particularly from people without legal status who may lack proper identification to have banking or checking accounts. Companies like Western Union have dominated this field, but banks now have about 9 percent of this market, Mr. Lewis said. 
He said the purchase would enable Bank of America to attract Spanish-speaking customers in its service area from three groups: 1.7 million people who have been in the United States more than a decade and who have bank accounts, 11 million people who have been in the country for 5 to 10 years and need more banking services, and 3.4 million who have been in the United States less than five years and are unlikely to have a bank account or a credit history. 
The price Bank of America is paying for its stake is about three times book value.
Shares of Bank of America rose 12 cents today, to $69.50, on the New York Stock Exchange. In Madrid, shares of Santander rose 1.5 percent, to 6.75 euros. Shares of Santander, the biggest bank in Latin America, are down 28 percent this year, hurt by financial crises in Argentina and elsewhere in the region.
Grupo Financiero Santander, as of September, had a 15 percent market share in Mexico, $25 billion in assets, $13 billion in deposits, 926 branches and 1,770 A.T.M.'s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); WIRE TRANSFERS (79%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: BANCO SANTANDER SA (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); GRUPO FINANCIERO BANORTE SAB DE CV (90%); GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX/ACCIVAL SA DE CV (58%); WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%) BANK OF AMERICA; GRUPO FINANCIERO SANTANDER SERFIN; SANTANDER CENTRAL HISPANO 

TICKER: SANT (LIS) (93%); SANT (BIT) (93%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (93%); SAN (NYSE) (93%); SAN (MCE) (93%); SAN (BMV) (93%); BNC (LSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GFNORTE (BMV) (90%); WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%) SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (79%) WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



385 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 4647 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "DRAWING NOW: EIGHT PROPOSITIONS," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Jan. 6). This generous sampling of work by 26 young artists provides a sweeping, even opulent view of drawing at the threshold of the 21st century. The variety of techniques and materials, the mix of large-scale feats of draftsmanship with clusters of framed works, the breadth of sources (from American quilt patterns to Japanese anime to 19th-century illustration) and the range of narrative ambition create an exhilarating sense of possibility. The division of the work into eight approaches, or propositions, balances coherence with diversity. Some of the artists illustrate rather than fully embody the curators' categories, and there is an excess of fashionable, even overexposed artists from a handful of hot galleries. Nonetheless, "Drawing Now" is required viewing for anyone remotely interested in today's art. It sets a standard for future shows of its kind. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; until 7:45 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $12; $8.50, students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

* "GENESIS: IDEAS OF ORIGIN IN AFRICAN SCULPTURE," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through April 13). This splendid show, installed in the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing, examines African myths about the creation of the world, the foundations of kingship and the formation of the family as told in the art of more than a dozen sub-Saharan cultures. The images range from naturalistic figures to fantastic animals and culminate in a coup de theatre display of some 40 Bamana headdresses, many of the classic Ci Ware type. The dynamic is one of ethical persuasion, physical and psychological healing and a holistic connection to the world through objects of irrepressible energy and beauty. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7 for students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

* "KAZARI: DECORATION AND DISPLAY IN JAPAN: 15TH-19TH CENTURY," Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155 (through Dec. 31). The hard-to-grasp term kazari refers to the decorative arrangement of objects. And it is demonstrated with enchanting results in a show that demolishes the cliche of Japanese art as inherently minimalist. Here everything is layered: something is always in front of or behind or above something else, and each something has its own painted, incised or embroidered intricacies. This results in a total environment of conspicuous but elusive richness, encompassing painted screens, samurai jackets and Kabuki costumes that sag under acres of padded silk and gilded thread. It's maximalism all the way. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM THE TOLEDO MUSEUM OF ART," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Jan. 5). This small but weighty group of 12 masterworks salutes the collecting activities of an important Ohio institution that was founded in 1901 under the leadership of the Toledo glass manufacturer Edward Drummond Libbey. With no dominant theme, the paintings range in period from the 16th century to the 19th and include New Testament scenes by Piero di Cosimo, Jacopo Bassano and El Greco, landscapes by Gainsborough, Boucher and Cezanne and a still life by Pissarro. Complementing the Frick's own collection of masterworks, they make a compelling show, one that could possibly encourage a visit to the Toledo museum itself. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Fridays through Dec. 27, to 9 p.m. with free admission after 6 p.m.); Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $12; $5 for students; $8 for 62+ (Grace Glueck).

"DAGOBERT PECHE AND THE WEINER WERKSTATTE," Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 (through Feb. 10). This survey of the Austrian designer Dagobert Peche (pronounced DAH-go-bert PEH-kuh) is a case study in the use of material objects to effect cultural reform. And the installation is as lively as any design show New York has seen. Peche, who died in 1923 at 36, represented the second generation of the Wiener Werkstatte, whose designers regarded decorative objects as ideological vessels. But his highly ornate work is in full contrast to the spartan aesthetic associated with the movement. With more than 400 drawings and objects on view, the show is a tumble of stylized flora and offers an equal range of materials: fabric, wallpaper, precious metals, ceramics, wood and glass. Like Philippe Starck and Ettore Sottsass today, Peche designed rooms of inner nature, enclosures for emotion. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7, students and 65+ (Herbert Muschamp).

* "THE QUILTS OF GEE'S BEND," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through March 2). The most ebullient exhibition of the New York art season in the unlikely guise of a show of hand-stitched quilts from a remote, historically black community along the Alabama River. For generations, the women of Gee's Bend have passed down an indigenous style of quilting geometric patterns out of old britches, cornmeal sacks, Sears corduroy swatches and hand-me-down leisure suits -- whatever happened to be around. Imagine Matisse and Klee arising not from rarefied Europe, but from the caramel soil of the rural South. The best designs, minimalist and spare, turn out to be some of the most miraculous works of modern art America has produced. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8, students and 62+ (Michael Kimmelman)

Galleries: Uptown

JOHN EVANS, "Collages," Pavel Zoubok, 1014 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 879-5858 (through Dec. 21). Every day from the early 60's to the end of the 20th century, Mr. Evans created a new collage, 33 of which are here. His compact compositions of ticket stubs, bottle and box labels, photographs and other ephemera with cityscapes, ducks and abstract elements added in richly colored inks are often associated with those of Ray Johnson, but Mr. Evans's works have their own distinctively emblematic form and sweetly poetic charm (Ken Johnson).

"HIGH NOTES OF AMERICAN MODERNISM: SELECTIONS FROM THE COLLECTION OF TOMMY AND GILL LiPUMA," Berry-Hill Galleries, 11 East 70th Street, (212) 744-2300 (through Dec. 31). Concentrated on four American artists of the early 20th century -- Alfred Maurer, Arnold Friedman, Marsden Hartley and John Marin -- this show of 40 works was assembled over three decades. Among the Maurer standouts are an early still life from his Fauve period, "The Painted Bowl With Chicken," and some beautifully wrought late canvases that helped to shape an American Cubist vocabulary. Nine Friedmans attest to the vibrancy of his work -- a kind of Impressionist figuration. This highly personal collection has enough pizazz to make any art lover's day (Glueck).

* "LE CORBUSIER BEFORE LE CORBUSIER: APPLIED ARTS, ARCHITECTURE, PAINTING AND PHOTOGRAPHY, 1907-1922," Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000 (through Feb. 23). This dense, brainy show has been organized by curators who have a healthy respect for the visual impact of actual objects. With everything from farm furniture and peasant ceramics to frighteningly austere city plans that, thankfully, were never built, it sheds new light on the precocious polymath who became, as the introductory text panel states, "arguably the most influential, admired and maligned architect of the 20th century." It is accompanied by an excellent 57-page exhibition guide, which should become a model for other exhibitors (Smith).

Galleries: 57th Street

AL HELD AND GEORGE SUGARMAN, "The Early 60's," Washburn, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-6780 (through Jan. 25). These two artists were close friends in the early 60's, and it looks as if they egged each other on like Picasso and Braque, breaking with the faded romance of Abstract Expressionism for a more cheerfully hedonistic formalism. The sculptor's logic-flouting arrangements of brightly painted, semiorganic shapes chainsawed from laminated wood are well matched by the painter's punchy, generously sensuous canvases (Johnson).

MICHAEL SPANO, "Time Frames," Laurence Miller, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-3930 (through Dec. 21). For two decades Mr. Spano has been exploring ways the camera may be used to reflect the complexities and disjunctions of urban experience. This retrospective includes split-screen diptychs, ghostly multiple exposures, seemingly radioactive solarized pictures and gridded prints made with a camera that sequentially exposes eight images on a single negative. At his best, in panoramic pictures made using a rotating lens, there is an intoxicated receptivity to the world (Johnson).

"LOUIS STONE, AMERICAN MODERNIST," Michael Rosenfeld, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 247-0082 (through Jan. 11). The Modernist abstractions painted between 1938 and 1942 by this little known Ohio-born artist are undeniably fetching, even if they don't put him in a league with Arshile Gorky. Living in Lambertville N.J., Stone sampled and re-mixed possibilities gleaned from Picasso, Kandinsky, Miro and other European pioneers. He was, perhaps, more a sophisticated designer than a deeply original painter, but seeing more of his work could alter that impression (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

ENID BAXTER BLADER, "Letter From the Girl, Mailed at the Gas Station," Location One, 26 Greene Street, (212) 334-3347 (through Dec. 28). Cerebral film buffs might find in Ms. Blader's 18-minute video projection all kinds of inside references and jokes about film noir, B movies and other sorts of low-end cinematic Pop. A puzzling montage of scenes set in a rural wasteland features a woman in a trench coat on the run, a mysteriously menacing 1980's-style bar girl and an overweight bleached blonde looking for someone who remains unspecified. Instead of plot, there's a curious blend of suspense and tedium (Johnson).

"FRIDA'S WORLD," Cavin-Morris, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 226-3768 (through Jan. 4). If Frida Kahlo was as tempestuous as the new biographical movie has it, you would never know it from this selection of vintage portraits by various photographers, in which she invariably radiates a regal, mysteriously contained dignity. Her husband, Diego Rivera, appears, too, but is no competition for the uni-browed one's photogenic magnetism (Johnson).

* ALEX HAY, "Work From the 60's," Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154 (through Dec. 21). In the 1960's, Mr. Hay produced paintings and sculptures that were featured in important Pop Art exhibitions. Each of the enchanting works here is a greatly enlarged representation of an ordinary object made with dry verisimilitude: a grainy, printed cash register receipt fills a canvas more than seven feet tall; a three-dimensional lunch-size paper bag stands five feet tall, its wrinkles, tears and saw-tooth edges reproduced with loving exactitude (Johnson).

* CHRIS JOHANSON, "Now Is Now," Deitch Projects, 76 Grand Street, (212) 343-7300 (through Dec. 21). Mr. Johanson's funny and touching faux-naive painting, drawing and sculpture seem the products of an inspired simpleton's holistic vision. An installation in which a ship goes round and round, driven by a pivot arm balanced by a cartoon moneybag, represents the futility of materialism; smaller works spoof New Age therapy culture, like a picture of people dancing in silly cat suits, one exclaiming, "This is an excellent workshop!" Under the satiric surface, there's a genuine religious yearning (Johnson).

"PHOTOGRAPHY (AS COMMENTARY)," Kent, 67 Prince Street, (212) 966-4500, (through Jan. 25). Hans Haacke's pairing of a Walker Evans photograph of an impoverished farm family and a photo-op picture of the elder George Bush in a farmer's costume with his wife, Barbara, on the porch of a hurricane-wrecked house still resonates in the era of the younger George Bush. Dennis Adams's grid of Patty Hearst images and darkly comical studio pictures of Hispanic folks in alpine fantasy-scapes by Leandro Erlich and Judi Werthein also stand out in this smart 10-artist show of photography put to political purpose (Johnson).

"ANDY WARHOL: MODEL," Ronald Feldman, 31 Mercer Street, (212) 226-3232 (through Dec. 21). If you are fascinated by the famously enigmatic Warhol persona, this barrage of portraits could cure you. The show features over 300 images of the artist by the photographer Christopher Makos. Most interesting is a huge series of formal portraits of Warhol in women's makeup and various wigs. Contact sheets show him posing as a fashion model. Video clips are also on view, including his cameo appearance on "The Love Boat" (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

MARINA ABRAMOVIC, "The House With the Ocean View," Sean Kelly, 528 West 29th Street, (212) 239-1181 (through Dec. 21). The 12-day public fast by this extreme-performance veteran, which introduced hundreds of visitors to the rigors of early 70's performance art while giving it a new sense of form, ended just before Thanksgiving. But the sculptural combination of elevated platforms and starkly geometric furniture -- Donald Judd boxes crossed with Robert Wilson set designs -- that contributed to its gravity and clarity remains. The ladders with butcher knives for rungs seem melodramatic, compared with the restraint with which Ms. Abramovic conducted herself, but the setting remains charged with her intensity (Smith).

SIAH ARMAJANI, "Glass Room for an Exile and Related Works," Senior & Shopmaker, 21 East 26th Street, (212) 213-6767 (through Jan. 11). Mr. Armajani is justly celebrated for his public artworks. In the gallery his sculpture is less surprising. "Glass Room for an Exile," the main attraction here, has two large adjoining cubes, one lined with a black curtain, the other transparent and furnished with a chair and a wheel. The conjunction of metaphysical obscurity and utilitarian transparency is rich, but the installation's overly precious formality does the symbolism less justice than it deserves (Johnson).

DELIA BROWN, "Pastorale," D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 352-9460 (through Dec. 21). Departing from her watercolors of attractive young people lounging about in expensive homes, Ms. Brown offers a series of faux-kitsch Arcadian landscape paintings and a music video in which the pop singer Goapele lip-syncs her way through a party of attractive young people in a luxurious, rustically styled house. The artist treats her themes of vanity, pastoral escapism and the cult of youth with an annoyingly blithe, Warholian superficiality (Johnson).

SARAH CHARLESWORTH, "Neverland," Gorney Bravin & Lee, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 352-8372 (through Dec. 21). Once associated with artists like Barbara Kruger and Sherrie Levine, who used photography to expose the medium's own sociology, Ms. Charlesworth is still making glossy images of iconic objects in super-saturated colors. With their color-coordinated frames, her photographs are wry mock-commodities, but hanging at different heights in the gallery, her images of a full moon, burning fireplace logs, a Magrittean pipe and other singular objects create a mood more of playful domestic reverie than intellectual suspicion (Johnson).

* KARIN DAVIE, Mary Boone, 541 West 24th Street, (212) 752-2929 (through Dec. 21). Spirits will be lifted by Ms. Davie's exuberantly sensuous abstract paintings. Undulating, striated ribbons in high-contrast colors fill the canvases, seeming to balloon into three-dimensional space and threatening to burst the rectangular edges of the picture. She mixes Abstract Expressionism, Op and Pop into ravishing visual plenitude (Johnson).

BILL FEENEY, "Out West/Back East," Cornell DeWitt Gallery, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 695-6845 (through Dec. 21). Mr. Feeney grew up in Laramie, Wyo., which explains his Neo-Pop multimedia evocation of an Old West saloon, complete with swinging door, a bar and a broken mirror in remembrance of an angry, gun-wielding patron. Gunslingers and a bronco rider outlined in neon add illumination, while a lovely wooden model of a fire escape in a gallery alcove nods to the artist's current home in Brooklyn (Johnson).

JANET HENRY, "American Anatomy and Other Work?" P.P.O.W., 555 West 25th Street, (212)647-1044 (through Dec. 21). Words are the stuff of Ms. Henry's work, words that she cursively traces in ropy necklaces, or lariats, made of beads, tiny dolls, coins, scraps of cloth, plastic, shredded cellophane and the like. Enshrined on the wall, they read "fear," "dirt," "once," "plethora," and "Ana," the latter a tribute to the promising young artist Ana Mendieta who died in an unexplained fall out a window in 1985. Proving that Ms. Henry also has a sense of humor, there is a whole phrase, made of paper squares encased in clear vinyl. Each square reads like a running journal of her wide-ranging ruminations, but they are arranged in block letters to form "Oh Shut Up" (Glueck).

THOMAS HIRSCHHORN, Barbara Gladstone, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300 (through Dec. 21). To imagine Mr. Hirschhorn, the 45-year-old Swiss-born installationist, think of him as Joseph Beuys with a sense of humor and without the egomania. This show is a tour de force of wood, cardboard and duct tape. The gallery is transformed into a cave. There are books everywhere, with posters of Tupac Shakur and mannequins wrapped in aluminum foil. The results look like a shantytown Lascaux-terrorist hideaway-teenager's room. The spirit is lightly anarchic (politics are the subtext) and open armed. At a time when so much new art is so meticulously packaged and commercial, the cheerful messiness is almost a political statement in itself (Kimmelman).

DENNIS HOLLINGSWORTH, Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3335 (through Dec. 21). Paint seems to have an antic life of its own in Mr. Hollingsworth's viscerally lyrical abstractions. Brushed, drizzled, squeegeed, congealed, squeezed from the tube and formed into spiky buttons like sea urchins in a luscious range of colors, it coheres into off-kilter compositions that push to the limit tension between the seductively physical and the visionary (Johnson).

JERALD IEANS, Lucas Schoormans, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3159 (through Dec. 28). This young, self-taught painter produces economical, well-composed arrangements of biomorphic forms on medium-large canvases. With their overlapping, amoeboid shapes in shades of gray or muted pastels, finely combed textures and sharp edges, Mr. Ieans's paintings have great decorative appeal. Slyly sophisticated updates of Miro-style Surrealism, they are formally restrained yet funky (Johnson).

JOHN ISAACS, "Dumb Planets Are Round Too," Feigen Contemporary, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 929-0500 (through Dec. 21). Among many different sorts of photographs, paintings, videos and an installation, one amazing sculpture stands out: a life-size, morbidly obese man made with the verisimilitude of a wax-works horror. Spotlighted in a darkened empty room and elevated on a low pedestal, he is like a force-fed Frankenstein's monster, a bald-headed mountain of swelling and sagging flab and horrendously diseased skin. It is meant to be a Dorian Gray-style portrait of the artist as a symbol of Western overconsumption (Johnson).

FRANK LOBDELL, Charles Cowles Gallery, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through Dec. 21). This show of works from 1948 to 1972 by the West Coast Abstract Expressionist Frank Lobdell is his first in New York in some years, although the artist himself, now 81, has not lacked exposure in his own Bay Area haunts and elsewhere. His early mentors were Clyfford Still and Mark Rothko, so it's not surprising that color is his passion, strong hues urgently laid on in impasto textures or thin glazes and often tempered by vibrant blacks. An edge of tension that's almost palpable runs through the work. It's refreshing to see it again (Glueck).

BRIAN MAGUIRE, "The Bayview Project," White Box, 525 West 26th Street, (212) 714-2347 (through Jan. 4). This exhibition is billed as a collaboration between Mr. Maguire, an Irish painter and conceptualist, and 13 unidentified women incarcerated at the Bayview Correctional Facility in Chelsea. It includes paintings made by the women in workshops directed by Mr. Maguire, Expressionistic portraits of individual women by him and an outdoor billboard publicizing the project with four giant reproductions of Mr. Maguire's paintings. One can imagine a fierce debate arising around questions of identity, art therapy and exploitation (Johnson).

"MULTIPLES: AN INCOMPLETE SURVEY," Brent Sikkema, 530 West 22nd Street, (212) 929-2262 (through Dec. 22). This crowded exhibition of more than 60 multiples is surprisingly engrossing. Notable items include Sarah Stanton's chrome-plated hamburger; a pair of porthole-shaped nautical lights in a wooden crate by Andrea Zittel; animated faux-wood by Richard Artschwager; glass egg yolks by Kiki Smith; little free-standing racially provocative silhouettes by Kara Walker; and beautiful goat-skin gloves with hand-stitched surrealistic veins by Meret Oppenheim (Johnson).

GEORGE SUGARMAN, "Yellow to White to Blue to Black," Gary Tatinstian, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 633-0110 (through Dec. 21). One of the most interesting sculptors of the 1960's, Sugarman would organize eccentrically shaped, brightly painted objects into sprawling groups, playfully blending Cubism, Matissean color and Post-Minimalism installation. Along with collages from the 50's and 60's, this show features a three-part sculpture from 1967. Each colored laminated wood piece is a paradoxical mix of complexity and simplicity, elegance and awkwardness; they go together like a jazz trio (Johnson).

* RYAN WEIDEMAN, "In My Taxi," Bruce Silverstein, 504 West 22nd Street, (212) 627-3930 (through Jan. 5). When he arrived in New York in 1980, Mr. Weideman took a job as a taxicab driver and began taking pictures of his transient back-seat occupants. Celebrities, party girls, drag queens, tired businessmen and tourists have all briefly visited his mobile studio, and he has recorded them in portraits of disarming, sometimes exquisitely erotic intimacy. In most cases the artist's own visage leans into the picture, wearing an expression of Buster Keatonish ennui (Johnson).

Other Galleries

"GLOBAL PRIORITY," Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning, 161-04 Jamaica Avenue, Jamaica, Queens, (718) 658-7400 (through Jan. 11). The curators Heng-Gil Han and Gordon Knox invited 30 artists from around the world to deliver responses to globalization via generic mailers marked "global priority." On view are works by well-known artists like Xu Bing, Mark Dion and William Kentridge, but some of the most memorable efforts are by less familiar artists. Ayelet Zohar's video tour of a fence encircling an Israeli settlement is a canny wedding of Minimalism and political provocation (Johnson).

ALEX GREY, Tibet House, 22 West 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 807-0563 (through Jan. 3). Mr. Grey's painting, with its tantric symbolism, medical-illustration finesse and New Age optimism, might be described as psychedelic realism. In it the human figure is rendered with X-ray or CAT-scan transparency, the way Aldous Huxley saw a leaf when he was on mescalin. Mr. Grey's images have been appropriated by a countercultural audience: they have shown up on promotional posters for rave events and on paper used for blotter-style LSD. But they look right at home at Tibet House, where contemporary versions of religious tankas, meant for esoteric instruction and meditation, often hang (Cotter).

DAVID HAMMONS, "Concerto in Black and Blue," Ace Gallery, 275 Hudson Street, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through Feb. 1). This stone-soup installation consists only of small blue lights available at the entrance. With them visitors can explore the vast darkness of the gallery's several vast spaces while the possible meanings of the show's title hum in the mind. Extending Duchamp's notion of the viewer as essential to the completion of an art work, its fleeting beauty exists only when it is being seen (Smith).

Last Chance

"STUART DAVIS: ART AND THEORY, 1920-31," Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0008 (through Sunday). The mountain of papers, notebooks and sketchbooks left by Davis (1892-1964) show that his jazzy, spontaneous-looking works didn't just happen. They evolved from meticulous plotting on paper, in words and drawings, before he put brush to canvas. To celebrate its acquisition of his earliest known diary, dated 1920-22, and a 1926 sketchbook, the Morgan has mounted a small show of 12 drawings and paintings that point up the role of the sketchbook and diary in the development of his artistic theory between 1920 and '31. The gouache "Coffee Pot No. 2" (1930), a brightly colored, boldly patterned streetscape, for example, reflecting his fascination with urban life and signage, derives directly from a modest drawing in the sketchbook. By putting the roots of Davis's work in context with some of his early flowerings, the Morgan has found a lucid way to present its important new acquisition. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6 for students and 65+ (Glueck).

GUILLERMO KUITCA, Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337 (through tomorrow). Mr. Kuitca's ambitions have turned Wagnerian. His latest show includes "The Ring," a big multipart painting inspired by Wagner's opera cycle, the backgrounds painted in different styles, meant to track an arc from Cubism to the digital age. Mr. Kuitca's work is cool, airless, philosophical and oblique. When it isn't arch and dry, it can be hypnotic. There are also paintings of airport luggage-conveyor belts, apartment-floor plans and peep show booths, akin to the Wagner panels and similarly melancholic. But the most memorable works are small ones on paper: seating plans for theaters that seem to melt, explode, drip and bend (Kimmelman).

* BRUCE NAUMAN, Van de Weghe Fine Art, 521 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-6633 (through tomorrow). This three-decade survey administers a substantial dose of Bruce Nauman's cerebrally punishing visual poetry. Neon signs feature flat-footed wordplay; one, for example, blinks "war" one way and "raw" the other. Most repellent are sculptures made from the animal forms used by taxidermists: a mobile has dangling cast-aluminum dogs with legs cut off and reattached in reverse (Johnson).

PAUL NOBLE and GIOVANNI BATTISTA PIRANESI, Susan Inglett, 100 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 343-0573 (through tomorrow). Among the most impressive works in the Museum of Modern Art's "Drawing Now" exhibition are Mr. Noble's huge architectural fantasies. His two etchings on view here, though ordinary in scale, are similarly absorbing in their detail and narrative lunacy. They are well matched by four views of ancient ruins by Piranesi, the great 18th-century printmaker and architectural visionary (Johnson).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Detail from "Self-Portrait With Charles Kuralt," 1989, by Ryan Weideman, on view through Jan. 5 at the Bruce Silverstein Gallery in Chelsea. (Bruce Silverstein Gallery); Tissot's "London Visitors," on loan to the Frick Collection. (Toledo Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); QUILTS & QUILTING (73%); ANIMATION (71%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (69%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



386 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Wounded to the Quick By an Affair Gone Astray

BYLINE:  By JASON TANZ 

 BODY:
THERE is nothing so cruel as betrayal, and when the love betrayed has been as pure as Mike Dini's for Porsche, the initial shock can turn quickly to outrage. From his adolescence in Livermore, Calif., in the 1970's Mr. Dini fantasized about owning a Porsche, and in 1999, when he finally bought one -- a glacier-white 911 -- his joy was almost unbounded. "I stared at the crest on the steering wheel," he recalled in a telephone interview a few weeks ago from his home in La Jolla, Calif., "and said, 'Am I really driving this thing?' "
 And then, out of the blue, came the unthinkable. Sometime in 2000 he first heard reports that Porsche, the iconic maker of sports cars, was developing a sport utility vehicle. 
 His first reaction was denial. ("Oh, no," he remembered thinking. "You can't be doing this.") Then he moved onto the second stage of grieving -- anger -- and that is pretty much where he has stayed. "Every S.U.V. I've seen is driven by some soccer mom on her cellphone," Mr. Dini said. "I hate these people, and that Porsche would throw me into that category made me speechless. Just speechless." 
Mike Dini is not alone. Since Porsche's S.U.V. project was first announced in 1999, it has been dogged by controversy. Autoextremist.com, an online automotive journal, said in October that the S.U.V., called the Cayenne, "threatens to destroy the very soul of the company." An October 2000 article in The Independent Weekly of Durham, N.C., called it "a stupid idea conceived by chimps." Even the relatively staid Car and Driver magazine referred to the Cayenne last month as "either a brilliant marketing scheme or a sure sign that The End is near." But by far the loudest cries of anguish are coming from Porsche owners.
Several were happy to be interviewed. "Everything about the Cayenne is completely the opposite of what Porsche is and does," Pete Grazaitis, a Porsche owner in Cockeysville, Md., said. "It will be the death of a tradition," Robert A. Grant, a Boxster owner in Agoura Hills, Calif. 
Porsche unveiled the finished Cayenne in September at the Paris Auto Show. The car will not appear in United States showrooms until March 15, but dealers are taking orders. The company says it does not know how many have been presold but it does say that it has received expressions of interest from at least 20,000 potential buyers.
To the layman, the Cayenne seems like a car that should satisfy any Porsche fan. It looks a bit like a stretched and swollen Boxster (the relatively low-priced roadster introduced in 1997) and its turbo model, with a 450-horsepower engine, can go from a stop to 62 miles an hour in 5.6 seconds. But the Internet is clogged with the sentiments of the dissatisfied and the incensed.
Porsche fanatics have long flocked to the Web to discuss their favorite carmaker. But over the last couple of years, Porsche-related bulletin boards have become polarized group therapy sessions, as Porschephiles have hotly debated the merits of the new vehicle. Many say the money spent on it would have been better used improving racing performance. (Porsche hasn't won a trophy at Le Mans since 1998.) Even those who don't object to the S.U.V. idea have complaints -- that the Cayenne is ugly, too expensive, or being released years too late.
"No other Porsche -- past, present, or future -- comes close to generating the kind of response that the Cayenne has," said Chuck Hammersmith, founder of Porsche Pete's Boxster Board, a Web site (www.986board.com) that draws thousands of Porsche fanatics every week. Over the last two years, Mr. Hammersmith estimates, the Boxster Board has received more than 10,000 postings about the Cayenne. Even Porsche admits, on its own Web site (www.porsche.com), that the S.U.V.'s debut is "surrounded by speculation, curiosity, and a measure of skepticism."
But what really sends Porschephiles' outrage into overdrive is the thought that Porsche has turned its back on its sports-car-loving fan base to appeal to a different breed of driver: the yuppie dilettante. And there may be no vision more heretical to a testosterone-poisoned 911 owner than that of a suburban mother loading groceries into the back of her Porsche after dropping her children off at soccer practice.
"A Porsche S.U.V. will, perhaps forever, cheapen the brand," fumed Matt Mintzer, a Milton, Mass., Porsche 911 owner and a frequent contributor to Porsche-related Internet bulletin boards. "Which demographic will this thing attract? My guess is BMW poseur types."
Robin Sun of Miami, who drives a 1996 911, picked up the argument: "People will buy these Porsche S.U.V.'s because they're a fad, and they'll embarrass the real Porsche crowd."
"They're not going to know how to drive and they'll do stupid things," he added. "It's scary to think about."
The Cayenne is the result of a scare that Porsche experienced during the recession of the early 1990's, when the company faced the very real possibility of bankruptcy. Porsche survived, but its executives were convinced that it needed to appeal to a more diverse range of car owners. "The company learned a very important lesson back in the early 90's," said Martin Peters, a Porsche spokesman. "The sports car market alone is not sufficient to maintain our security as a company."
Porsche wasn't the only car company to conclude that the growing S.U.V. market was the one to tap. "S.U.V.'s have become the new fashion statement in this business," said Chris Cedegren, an analyst at Nextrend, an automotive industry research and consulting firm in Thousand Oaks, Calif.
But unlike Cadillac or Lexus, Porsche is not a luxury-car manufacturer; it makes sports cars. And by entering the S.U.V. market, Porsche is vaulting into an entirely new business, all while trying to preserve the power of its brand. "It's a classic problem in brand management," said Nancy Koehn, a professor of business administration at Harvard Business School -- and particularly difficult for brands like Porsche, whose loyal customers cling to its particular reputation and the exclusivity that comes with it. (If businesses don't manage the transition carefully, the results can be devastating. When Halston introduced a down-market clothing line for J. C. Penney in 1983, for instance, Bergdorf Goodman pulled Halston items from its shelves.)
"If I say to somebody, 'I own a Porsche,' I want them to think I'm a swinger," said Al Ries, a co-author of "The 22 Immutable Laws of Branding," and a founder of Ries & Ries, marketing consultants.
To be sure, some Porsche owners have already made down payments on Cayennes, according to the company. "A lot of people love Porsches but need a bigger car," said Tony Sciple, a general manager at Champion Motors in Pompano Beach, Fla., the country's largest Porsche dealership.
And Carter Dunkin, a spokesman for the Porsche Club of America, an independent organization that receives some money from Porsche and arranges racing events for Porsche drivers, said that the club wanted to be "inclusive." But opening the club to S.U.V. owners may be too much for some Porsche enthusiasts. At least one member has posted a demand on the organization's Internet bulletin board for a vote on whether Cayenne owners should be included in club events.
Porsche has faced this dynamic -- the gearhead purist versus the upwardly mobile car-polisher -- before. Some fans were dismayed when, in the 1970's, Porsche developed the 914, which had a Volkswagen engine, and the 924, which was built in an Audi plant and had an engine used in tractors. (Porsche and Volkswagen worked together on the Cayenne, another sore spot.) Others refuse to recognize 911's built after 1998 as true Porsches, since that is the year that the company replaced its air-cooled engine with a water-cooled one, largely to help meet new emissions standards. Even the Boxster was originally dismissed by some purists as an entry-level wannabe.
This history causes some to view the anti-S.U.V. faction as a band of intransigent diehards.
"Most of these yahoos are so predisposed to hate the Cayenne, they can't even think straight," said Brian Rickerson, a Boxster owner in Los Angeles, in an e-mail interview. "Everything they say about the Cayenne not being a real Porsche was said about every model after the original 356, including the hallowed 911."
But Cayenne revilers like Mike Dini insist that this is a more serious breach. This time, after all, people who have no interest in driving sports cars will be able to describe themselves as Porsche owners.
In June, Mr. Dini moved up to a 911 Turbo. But he says sliding behind the wheel has already lost its thrill and glamour. "It's now like driving a Ford or a G.M.," he said. "It's just another 'me-too' car company."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CAR PROUD -- Mike Dini of La Jolla, Calif., dusting the badge on his 911, is one in a band of Porsche owners incensed by the new Porsche S.U.V., left. (Jack Smith for The New York Times)(pg. F1); BIG BROTHER -- A Porsche 911 gets a tow from the Cayenne, its brawny new sibling, in a company publicity photo, above. With the Cayenne, Porsche ventures into building a usable backseat, right. (pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORTS CARS (89%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); NEW CAR MODELS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%)

ORGANIZATION: PORSCHE AG 

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS; 

PERSON: TANZ, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); DURHAM, NC, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%); MARYLAND, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



387 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Aristide of Haiti: Pragmatist or Demagogue? 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
To his many impoverished followers, President Jean-Bertrand Aristide is the leader they fervently believe will lift them out of their misery. To his opponents -- a group that has become more vocal and more visible -- he is a demagogue who must reform or resign for the good of the country.
 Those competing camps have clashed in the streets here in recent weeks, sometimes with fatal results as Haiti's lingering political stalemate, now two years old, flirts with disaster and disorder. 
 Negotiations have so far failed to end the deadlock, which stems from an election dispute. Several hundred million dollars in foreign aid have been frozen because of the crisis, and the economy of the hemisphere's poorest nation has festered. 
Yet President Aristide says Haiti is at peace, or at least not in open warfare, thanks to him. In a 90-minute interview at the National Palace, he said he had already made significant concessions to his opponents. 
He faulted international lenders for criticizing him while not providing Haiti with money that would allow the government to work. He has every intention, he said, of finishing his second five-year term.
"I am not saying that I am the best," he said. "I am saying it is not easy to find someone capable of doing what I am doing for two years. I do not have to say a lot. I just have to invite people to look at what we have accomplished with nothing."
As much as offering a defense of his record, the statement provided a precis of Haiti's political conundrum.
Even his critics acknowledge that for all his flaws, there is no other politician with Mr. Aristide's popular standing. But they complain that the president has deflected responsibility for the political deadlock and made progress toward breaking it impossible.
Despite assurances about his commitment to democracy, they say, he has built his support in part by playing dangerously on the race and class differences that have made the country's politics so volatile -- and its democratic governments so fleeting -- since Haiti's founding.
"If he does not do something dramatic we are going to be in a terrible situation," said a leading businessman who has tried to intercede with the government. "I do not know if he has the wisdom to do what is necessary, because time is running out."
The Organization of American States has urged international lenders and donors to release the money, and donors meeting in Washington this week said they were looking for ways to provide some immediate funds to assist development and provide jobs.
But first they want Mr. Aristide to make some administrative changes that will account for how the money is used. Those changes hardly depend on the political opposition, said one official at the meeting.
During the interview, held in the antechamber to his office in the hushed, almost still palace, Mr. Aristide portrayed himself as having already been reasonable with his opponents, a fractious coalition known as the Democratic Convergence.
He has offered to shorten or even end the terms of the winners of the disputed 2000 elections, he said. He blamed the opposition for sabotaging any chance for a peaceful resolution of the political crisis by refusing to take part in new legislative elections next year against his Lavalas movement.
"Those who say Lavalas is weak, why not go to elections?" he said. "It would be good for the country."
His critics answer that Mr. Aristide has been slow to guarantee their security, particularly since a mysterious nighttime raid on the presidential palace a year ago that the president's supporters say was an attempted coup.
Since then, the critics say, the government has yet to disarm gangs of thugs who have sought retribution and intimidated Aristide opponents. Some say it is an indication that Mr. Aristide cannot control his supporters in the Lavalas movement, or does not want to.
Diplomats are warning both sides not to use the anniversary of the palace raid, next week, to provoke more confrontations.
"After 200 years of independence we still have some consequences from that past where we had 32 coups d'etat," Mr. Aristide said. "It is not easy for all the political parties to forget about that bad way to behave, moving from one coup d'etat to another."
Mr. Aristide, a former Roman Catholic priest who was first elected president in 1990, was himself quickly ousted in a coup, only to be restored in 1994 by an American-led invasion force. Washington has had an ambivalent relationship with him since.
In recent weeks, protesters, including former allies, have charged him with dividing the nation with worrisome appeals to race and class. Last week, during a speech in the town of Les Cayes, Mr. Aristide condemned the opposition, many from a fair-skinned elite, for being against dark-skinned Haitians, like himself.
"You are peasants; you are poor," he said in Creole, the language of most Haitians, in the cadence he perfected from his days as a preacher. "You are the same color I am. They don't like you. Your hair is kinky, same as mine. They don't like you. Your children are not children of big shots. They don't like you."
Mr. Aristide amended his remarks in a later speech, in French, the language of the upper classes, to say that all Haitians must work together for the common good. 
But his critics charged that it was a familiar pattern of making different appeals to different audiences and leaving open the potential for misunderstanding and possibly conflict.
The morning of the interview, several dozen supporters gathered in a park near the palace to decry the withholding of foreign aid. The protest echoed a theme that Mr. Aristide himself has emphasized, that withholding the money has directly increased his people's suffering.
"Many people seem to forget the poor have a right to eat," Mr. Aristide said. "Keeping the money out of Haiti is a violation of human rights."
Such words have failed to sway international officials. "Aristide has to understand there is political governance and there is economic governance," said the official who attended the donor's meeting. "People are skeptical and think he will probably do what he always does, blame somebody else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jean-Bertrand Aristide at an interview yesterday in the presidential palace. He sees himself a peacemaker; opponents call him obstructionist. (Alex Quesada/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (67%); TRENDS (66%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) HAITI

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



388 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Ghost of Walkouts Past 

BYLINE:  By Jonathan Mahler; Jonathan Mahler is writing a book about New York and baseball in the 1970's.

 BODY:
The parallels have not gone unnoticed. The city is facing a huge budget gap. Businesses are fleeing Manhattan. The mayor is under fire for trying to provide desperately needed low-income housing in middle-class neighborhoods. The downtown rock music scene is flourishing. The Knicks are slipping. The Mets have placed their faith in a pitcher named Tom. The 70's, it's being said, are back.
 In the surest sign yet that we are being visited by ghosts, the members of Transport Workers Union Local 100 are poised to walk off the job, just as they did in early 1980. 
 If the subways and buses are the city's central nervous system, a transit strike equals paralysis -- another indicator that New York is, in 70's-speak, the pits. But history suggests another possibility.
The story begins in the 1950's, when, after 20 years or so of intramural ideological squabbling, New York's municipal unions started building political muscle. Mayor Robert F. Wagner recognized the unions as a force to be reckoned with and pandered to. In those blissful days of limitless spending, Wagner bettered working conditions, instituted pensions and standardized health benefits. True empowerment came in 1958, when the mayor granted collective bargaining rights to New York's public unions. That move did not go unrewarded. In 1961, the mayor was reelected with a key assist from municipal unions.
By the end of the 60's, New York City government had more employees than the garment, banking and longshore industries combined, according to Joshua B. Freeman, a historian at Queens College. In a sense, the growth was in keeping with the city's unique civic culture. If New York aspired to be all things to all its people, it needed plenty of men and women on the payroll.
With numbers came militancy. Work stoppages were common in the 60's. Teachers, welfare workers and even the Metropolitan Opera Company were involved in labor clashes. Fun City became Strike City.
The transit union was perhaps the most radical of the bunch, in part because it pre-dated the other municipal unions. (New York's subway system was privately owned until 1940.) Its leader, Michael J. Quill -- "Red Mike," to his enemies -- was a blustery, swaggering union boss who was locked in a perpetual war of nerves with City Hall.
On the first day of 1966, his transit workers walked out, shutting down the city's subways and buses. John V. Lindsay had just become mayor, prompting Sammy Davis Jr. to crack that Lindsay had eliminated subway crime on his first day in office.
The transit strike was Lindsay's first test as mayor, and he failed it. For starters, he encouraged people to stay home. He also invoked the Condon-Wadlin Act, the notoriously harsh (and practically unenforceable) precursor to the Taylor Act that required the firing of the strikers. And he threw Quill and his cohorts in jail, making them martyrs.
The strike lasted 12 long days. Quill, who'd had a heart attack during the strike, died shortly after a settlement was reached, but he died triumphant. He had secured a 15 percent raise for his men. 
Some 14 years later, Mayor Edward I. Koch provided a dramatically different model as he dealt with the 1980 transit strike.
Mr. Koch was determined to prevent the April strike from crippling the city or deflating its spirit. He expected everyone to go to work and cheered them on as they did. He denounced union demands as outrageous and was irrepressibly defiant, going about his daily business, occasionally pausing to dismiss pro-union hecklers as "wackos."
Close to 90 percent of those with jobs in the city made it to work. The 11-day strike somehow stirred New Yorkers' sense of pride in their hometown. There were plenty of frustrated commuters, but the images of people in sneakers and suits pouring off the bridges at rush hour became symbols not of a city paralyzed but of a rugged metropolis refusing to give in. The transit strike of 1980 turned into an emblem of the rebirth of New York City after the fiscal crisis, layoffs and soaring unemployment of the 1970's.
Mr. Koch captured the mood of the city in the days after the strike in one of his many memoirs. Even discounting for self-inflation, it reads accurately: "New Yorkers were in a kind of euphoria that weekend," he wrote. "They had been called upon to run the gantlet, and they had done it with style."
Mayor Michael J. Bloomberg should remember this as he steps into the breach. Perhaps a transit strike isn't something to be feared. Handled correctly, it may be just the thing to pull us out of our funk. After all, that's what happened last time.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); HISTORY (73%); MUSIC (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); OPERA (67%); POP & ROCK (57%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; STRIKES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%) TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION 

PERSON: MAHLER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



389 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Tiger Singapore Changes Its Stripes 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
In less than a generation this island nation transformed itself from a swamp into a glittering jewel of Southeast Asia, a powerhouse of electronic exports and a center of financial services.
 Now, faced with economic uncertainty and pressed by the swift rise of China, Singapore is asking a hard question: how should it reinvent itself, yet again? 
 A government-led national debate is under way, with special panels, including one called the "Remaking Singapore Committee," created to come up with solutions. 
Cabinet ministers deliver motivational speeches to buck up confidence. Top businessmen ponder how they can keep Singapore, with no natural resources and a small population, in a premium global position. 
"Singapore is really a living example of the saying of Andy Grove, the head of Intel," said Ho Kwon Ping, a member of Singapore's powerful Government Investment Corporation, citing the title of Mr. Grove's 1996 book, "Only the Paranoid Survive."
"We've made paranoia into a state of art," said Mr. Ho, who is the head of one of the nation's successful business enterprises, Banyan Tree Hotels and Resorts, and is on the board of another, Singapore Airlines.
Singapore is not content with just job creation, he said, but wants to find ways to "stay ahead of the competition."
Singapore was forced into its reassessment after a long ride on the back of the information technology boom abruptly ended last year. Unemployment of 4.8 percent, small by world standards, is a record here.
After shrinking last year, the economy is expected to expand by 2.5 percent in 2002, down from a forecast of 4 percent. Few here expect annual growth to return to the sustained 7 and 8 percent of the mid-1990's, let alone the 9.8 percent of 2000.
High-end technology products were the specialty here, but now China is cornering that market. Singapore's position as a financial services center is also threatened.
Offshore banking peaked here in 1997 and has now settled back down to its 1989 level, according to Tan Khee Giap, the head of the government's central banking policy research unit.
Professor Tan said he anticipated the moment not too far in the future when Shanghai would overtake Singapore as a financial center.
Solutions to the gloom and doom are being sought in several directions: political, economic and educational.
To cushion itself from the economic growth of China, Singapore is further cementing its ties with the United States, particularly by working to complete a free trade agreement.
To make up for the downturn in the demand for its electronics and other manufactured goods, Singapore is moving into high-end niche industries, particularly biomedicine.
The educational system is being overhauled. The idea is to have less emphasis on rote learning and more emphasis on Chinese language, so that business with China will be easier. The 3.8 million population of Singapore is about 75 percent ethnic Chinese, but as part of the drive to ensure that the country moves easily in the global economy, English is the language of instruction.
The trade minister, George Yeo, has spent a great deal of time on the fine details of the trade agreement with the United States. The pact, now undergoing final negotiations, is expected to be signed early next year.
The underlying purpose of the deal is to keep the United States in the region, he said.
"As China becomes more powerful, the United States presence in the region will become more important," Mr. Yeo said in an interview. "The free trade agreement sends a signal."
Singapore seeks a "complementary" economic relationship with China but does not want to become "exclusively tied to China -- because that's uncomfortable," the minister said. 
"The free trade agreement makes us almost an extension of the United States in Southeast Asia," he added.
As China moves aggressively into Singapore's old strengths -- the disk drive, semiconductor and consumer electronics industries -- the government here is seeking to move into fields like biomedicine.
But China is beginning to compete in many of the same areas. "China has ambitions to be a major research and development center, and the brainpower being developed for this undertaking is breathtaking," Mr. Ho said.
For the moment, Singapore is banking on its reputation for rule of law and its strict protection of intellectual property rights as a major draw for pharmaceutical companies, Mr. Yeo said.
It is also tinkering with tax policy to make Singapore competitive with places like Hong Kong, Shanghai and the Shenzhen special economic zone in southern China. Corporate and personal taxes are to be lowered over three years to 20 percent.
But as the government makes its policy changes, the usually confident people of Singapore, given more to hard work than introspection, are asking questions. Some skeptics have wondered whether the shift to biomedicine is too little too late, and whether Singapore's restrictions on press freedoms may put off some.
Others wonder if the current generation of Singaporeans, spawned by a hardy breed of peasants who came from China, have become too comfortable.
"Our instinct for survival has gone," said Professor Tan, 45, the father of two children. His own father came to Singapore as a 16-year-old illiterate peasant from China and built a thriving palm oil plantation business.
"He came here as a beggar dressed in a gunny sack," Professor Tan said. "And look at my 3-year-old son -- he complains if there is no air-conditioning in the car."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 13 about Singapore's economic uncertainty and China's growing economic power misidentified the post held by Tan Khee Giap, who commented on Singapore's role as a financial center. He heads the central banking policies research unit at Nanyang Technological University's business school in Singapore and is an adjunct senior fellow at the Institute of Policy Studies there. He does not head the government's central banking policy research unit.
The article also misstated his view of the challenge posed by Shanghai. He said that not far in the future Shanghai could catch up with Singapore as a financial center -- not that it would catch up.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A guided tour near the Singapore River stopped by the statue of Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles, one of the founders of Britain's empire in the Far East, who secured Singapore's transfer to the East India Company.; Trade Minister George Yeo is in negotiations with Washington. (Photographs by Agence-France Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); RESORTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); BIOMEDICINE (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); C6L (SGX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: YEO, GEORGE (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) SINGAPORE (99%); CHINA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (79%) SINGAPORE 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



390 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Turks Look West; Will It Look Away? 

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Like a nervous outsider standing at the gates of an exclusive club, Turkey awaited word today on whether the European Union would finally offer it a chance to step inside. 
 The decision whether the 15-nation group will ever admit this predominantly Muslim nation of 70 million people is an extraordinary test for both Turkey and the European Union, and word tonight from Copenhagen that no firm date for membership talks was set seemed sure to disappoint many Turks. 
 For Turkey, a NATO member nation straddling both Europe and Asia, union membership is seen as a way to plant itself in the Western camp once and for all. 
Across Europe, the question of admitting Turkey has sparked an unusual debate about the definition of Europe itself, and whether an Islamic country is compatible with a group of historically Christian countries. 
Turkey's new leaders, who hail from a party with Islamist roots, have suggested that a rejection in Copenhagen might compel them to turn their gaze to the east. 
"If the European Union insults Turkey, it will bear the consequences," Recep Tayip Erdogan, the leader of the governing Justice and Development Party, said after meetings this week in Copenhagen. 
The attacks of Sept. 11 last year and the possible war in Iraq have placed the debate over Turkey in the context of the clash between Islam and the West. They have also drawn the United States deeper than it has ever been into a debate on membership of the European Union.
The Bush administration, seeking permission to ferry ground troops through Turkey into Iraq if there is a war, was pushing European nations to set a date for membership talks. The United States also wants to use Turkey as an example of an Islamic country that can prosper while maintaining a strong friendship with the West. 
Public opinion in Turkey is running strongly in favor of membership. Looking west, the Turks see an economic powerhouse, where even the poorest countries, like its neighbor and longtime rival Greece, have seen living standards soar with membership.
"Why do Turks want to be part of the West?" asked Deniz Gocke, an economics professor at Bosporos University. "The factory worker wants his wages to rise. And we want democracy to be firmly established." 
Modern Turkey has long stood out in the Islamic world. Founded in 1923 after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, the Turkish republic imposed strict limits on the role of Islam in public life. Its economy is relatively open, it is a member of the European Customs Union, and it has long maintained ties with Israel.
Still, Turkey has been torn by conflicting impulses. Its politics have been beset by corruption, and the military has repeatedly intervened against elected governments. Its current leaders, including Mr. Erdogan, flirted with doctrinaire political Islam in the past.
European leaders worry about Turkey's mixed record on democracy and human rights, including the past use of torture in jails and the sometimes brutal treatment of the Kurdish minority, which mounted an armed insurgency in the 1990's. 
Among Turks, there is widespread suspicion that the real reason behind Europe's coolness is religion.
Last month, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president and now head of a group charged with charting the future of the European Union, said Turkey's entry could spell "the end" of the group.
Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, in an interview with Le Monde, raised the specter of Turkey's rapidly increasing population, saying it would quickly become "the biggest member state in the European Union . . . with the biggest bloc in the European Parliament."
The remarks caused a sensation in Turkey, but have since been echoed across the Continent. Josef Joffe, editor in chief of the German weekly Die Zeit, said Mr. Giscard d'Estaing spoke for a large number of Europeans, who fear that thousands of Turks would pour in, searching for jobs and driving wages down.
In Istanbul's grittier neighborhoods, Europe indeed beckons to the men who pass their days in coffee houses waiting for the rumor of work.
Yilmaz Oksuz, 27 and a father of four, left his village on the Black Sea coast 10 years ago, but has never found much more than the occasional construction job. If Turkey joined the European Union, Mr. Oksuz said, he would head straight for Germany. 
"If I had the opportunity, I would go the next morning," he said. 
"If Turkey is going to be accepted by the union, then it will behave as a European power," said Fehmi Koru, a prominent Turkish newspaper columnist. "But if Turkey is going to be rejected by the union, then it is part of the Middle East and ought to take care of itself in the region."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muslims coming out of noon prayers in Istanbul. There is a widespread suspicion in predominantly Muslim Turkey that religion is the reason for the European Union's coolness toward admitting it to membership. (Bikem Ekberzade for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); POLITICS (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); CORRUPTION (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ISLAM 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: FILKINS, DEXTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) EUROPE (98%); TURKEY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (58%) EUROPE; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



391 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Are Up Sharply, but Jobless Claims Rise 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Retail sales in November increased at the fastest rate in three months, the Commerce Department reported today. 
 Sales were up 0.4 percent from October, the department said. The month before, they edged up 0.1 percent and in September fell by 1.5 percent. 
 "The urge to splurge started to creep back into consumers' spending patterns," said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisers. "The fears that households would not visit the malls appear to be unfounded." 
Excluding auto sales, which can swing widely from month to month, retail sales rose 0.5 percent in November, a stronger performance than the 0.2 percent rise economists were forecasting. 
Sales of furniture and home furnishings jumped 2.3 percent, the biggest increase in nearly two years after a 0.2 percent rise in October. 
Last month's rise comes as the housing market, helped by low mortgage rates, is on track to post record sales this year. Sales of building materials rose 1.2 percent in November, up from a 0.1 percent advance in October. 
At electronics and appliance stores, sales rose 0.9 percent on top of a 1 percent increase in October. Food and beverage sales rose 0.9 percent, up from a 0.1 percent gain. Health and beauty store sales increased 0.3 percent, after a 0.2 percent advance. 
Auto sales dipped 0.1 percent, an improvement from October's 2.1 percent drop.
At bars and restaurants, sales rose 0.3 percent last month, a turnaround from the 0.5 percent decline in October. 
Sales at general merchandise stores, including department stores, increased 0.3 percent after a 1.2 percent gain in October. 
There were a few weak spots: Clothing sales dropped 1.3 percent in November, after a sharp rise in October of 5.5 percent. Sales at book, sporting goods and hobby stores fell 0.5 percent after a 0.1 percent decline. 
Consumer spending has been the main force keeping the economy going this year.
But an economist at Merrill Lynch, Gerald Cohen, said, that "if consumer spending is going to continue to grow, the job picture needs to improve sooner rather than later." 
And new data suggested that unemployment remained a problem. The Labor Department reported that new claims for jobless benefits increased by a seasonally adjusted 83,000, to 441,000 last week, the highest level since the middle of April. 
Analysts said the increase was exaggerated by seasonal adjustment problems, but they still predicted a sluggish job market in the months ahead. 
In still another report, the Commerce Department said that the current account deficit, the broadest measure of trade, narrowed slightly in the third quarter, to $127 billion, from a $127.6 billion deficit in the second quarter. 
The current account measures the movement of goods and services between countries as well as investment flows and transfers, including American foreign aid payments. 
The Labor Department also reported today that import prices, led by a decline in previously rising oil prices, fell 1.0 percent in November, the most in almost a year, after no change in October. Export prices climbed 0.1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (96%); SALES FIGURES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (84%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (83%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (79%); RESTAURANTS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (74%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (74%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (68%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



392 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Rate Cut Is Linked to Strategy for Growth 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Members of the Federal Reserve's rate-setting committee decided on the reduction of half a percentage point in November as the best way to cut short a "soft spot" in economic growth, according to minutes of the meeting released today. 
 "A relatively aggressive easing action could help to ensure that the current soft spot in the economy would prove to be temporary and enhance the odds of a robust rebound in economic activity next year," the Nov. 6 minutes of the panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, indicated. 
 Some members also cited restrictive financial conditions, especially in bank lending, as another justification for the move. 
"The members agreed that monetary policy could do little to improve the performance of the economy in the near term," the minutes said, "but some emphasized that a 50-basis-point easing likely would feed through to some degree to market interest rates, with favorable implications for spending next year." (One hundred basis point are equivalent to 1 percent.) 
With inflation subdued, the panel thought that the risks of sharply easing rates were much less than the risks in not acting. 
"A failure to take an action," the minutes said, "that was needed because of a faltering economic performance would increase the odds of a cumulatively weakening economy and possibly even attendant deflation." 
The committee voted 12 to 0 to cut rates by a larger-than-expected amount and said the risks to the economy were balanced between inflation and weakness. 
There was less agreement on what is known as the balance-of-risks statement. Coming into the meeting, the panel had said the risks were tilted toward economic weakness. But the minutes noted that "some members" were less worried about that possibility. 
At the most recent meeting on Tuesday, the Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to leave rates steady. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



393 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: After Banning 1,092 Movies, Chile Relaxes Its Censorship 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
For nearly 30 years, it has been illegal here to exhibit or view the Bernardo Bertolucci film "Last Tango in Paris." The same prohibition has also been applied to Woody Allen's "Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Sex," Ingmar Bergman's "Smiles of a Summer Night" and hundreds of other motion pictures.
 Now, though, that peculiar situation is about to end. After enduring ridicule for its attitudes and being chastised by human rights organizations for suppressing free expression, this nation of 15 million people is finally ending a censorship system that has kept some of the world's most popular and admired movies from being shown publicly here. 
 "This is a new step in favor of personal liberties and the dignity of the individual," President Ricardo Lagos said in signing the bill this week. It goes into effect on Jan. 1, just in time for the peak Southern Hemisphere summer movie season, and theaters and film societies are lining up to be the first to show forbidden works.
Though its embrace of laissez-faire economic policies suggests a certain libertarian inclination, Chile is probably the most socially conservative nation in Latin America, in large part because the Roman Catholic Church is even more powerful here than in neighboring countries. Divorce is prohibited here, for instance, and abortion is forbidden even to save a woman's life.
"We have lived too much time with the Opus Dei all over us, dominated by obscurantism," the Chilean film director Orlando Lubbert told a local newspaper. "It is time to come out of our shell." Opus Dei is a conservative Catholic lay group.
Since the censorship board began more than 75 years ago, 1,092 movies have been prohibited here. Most, to judge by their titles, are simply pornographic, but films by directors including Federico Fellini, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Pedro Almodovar and Oliver Stone have also been banned.
During the right-wing military dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, from 1973 to 1990, military officers routinely banned or ordered huge cuts in any movie that aroused their ire or suspicion.
At one point, even a movie as innocuous as "Fiddler on the Roof" was prohibited, on the ground that too many of its characters were Russians. But the military censors were especially alarmed by politically charged movies like "Missing," about the disappearance of an American citizen here during the coup that brought General Pinochet to power, or Mr. Stone's "Salvador."
More recently, censors have also banned movies that they considered blasphemous, ranging from the Monty Python comedy "The Life of Brian" to Martin Scorsese's "The Last Temptation of Christ." 
Approval of the law does not mean the end of the censorship council. Instead, the board will now assign one of four ratings to movies and, in a move that has caused controversy, its membership is to be increased from 12 to 21, with psychologists, film directors and critics entering in place of army officers and judges.
During congressional debate of the changes, a conservative legislator argued that it was imperative the military remain represented on the board, given the number of war movies that would be screened. That led an opponent to reply that in view of the even larger number of films with sexual themes, the same logic would seem to demand that a prostitute be appointed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (90%); RELIGION (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) MOTION PICTURES; CENSORSHIP; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: OPUS DEI (54%) ;ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; BERTOLUCCI, BERNARDO; ALLEN, WOODY; BERGMAN, INGMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (70%) CHILE

TITLE: LAST TANGO IN PARIS (MOVIE); EVERYTHING YOU EVER WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX (MOVIE); SMILES OF A SUMMER NIGHT (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



394 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Judge Says California Owes Money to Power Sellers
A federal administrative law judge rejected claims by California for nearly $9 billion in refunds for what officials said was price gouging during the energy crisis of 2000-2001, and instead said the state owed $1.2 billion to cover unpaid electricity bills.
 The judge, Bruce L. Birchman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, ruled that energy companies overcharged California about $1.8 billion during the crisis, but said the state had an unpaid balance of $3 billion, and thus actually owed the $1.2 billion difference. The ruling will be reviewed by the three-member commission. Page A30. 

OPEC Tries to Rein In Members
Facing a credibility problem and rampant overproduction by members, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries moved to increase export quotas while demanding that members rein in their cheating. C8.

Ford Studies Shares Allotted to Chief
The board of the Ford Motor Company announced that it had formed a committee to look into the allocation of shares of Goldman Sachs to William Clay Ford Jr., left, the chairman and chief executive. Goldman Sachs allocated 400,000 shares to Mr. Ford in 1999 as part of its initial offering. Ford and Goldman have a long business relationship. C6.

United and Unions Discuss Changes
United executives and union leaders met for the first time since United filed for bankruptcy protection to discuss how the airline will be revamped, a process that is certain to include wage and benefit cuts for employees. C2.

Police Search Vivendi Offices
French investigators searched the offices of Vivendi Universal and the home of its former chief executive, Jean-Marie Messier, as they pursued an inquiry about the company's accounting. World Business, Section W.

Barnes & Noble Buys Publisher
Barnes & Noble said that it had paid about $100 million for Sterling Publishing, the bookseller's first purchase of a publishing house. C4.

Retail Sales Increased in November
Retail sales in November increased at the fastest rate in three months, rising 0.4 percent, the Commerce Department said. C8.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 50.74 points, at 8,538.40. The Nasdaq rose 2.96 points, to 1,399.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 3.38 points, to 901.58. C8.

Procter Ends Reporting of 2 Results
Procter & Gamble announced that it had completed a multiyear restructuring effort and would thus cease reporting two sets of results, one including restructuring charges and the other without them. The company has been criticized because its financial reports have included restructuring charges for each quarter since 1999. C4.

Brazil Picks a Central Banker
President-elect Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil has named Henrique Meirelles, former head of global banking at FleetBoston, as head of the central bank. A priority will be Brazil's inflation. World Business, Section W.

A Top Executive Leaves Publicis
The Publicis Groupe's efforts to hold onto a top creative executive, part of its strategy to keep clients from straying during a reorganization, have failed. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.

Fed Rate Cut Aimed at 'Soft Spot'
Members of the Fed's rate-setting committee decided on the reduction of half a percentage point in November as the best way to cut short a "soft spot" in growth. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,538.61 down 50.53Nasdaq composite -- 1,399.55 up 2.9610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.02% Unch.The euro -- $1.0185 up 0.0101The dollar -- 122.73 yen down 0.89 Graph "TODAY" shows the percentage change in producer prices.November figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: Unch. Graph shows Procter & Gamble's share price since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JUDGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (83%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); UTILITY RATES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); PUBLISHING (68%); BOOKSTORES (68%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); RETAIL SALES (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); VIVENDI (82%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); VIV (PAR) (82%); VIV (BIT) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



395 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: COMMODITIES; 
OPEC Raises Quotas but Calls for a Drop in Actual Output

BYLINE:  By PETER GREEN 

DATELINE: VIENNA, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Facing a credibility problem and rampant overproduction by members at a time when oil prices are expected to slide, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries moved today to increase official export quotas while demanding that members rein in their cheating.
 OPEC said that it would raise official export quotas to 23 million barrels a day from the current 21.7 million barrels, while asking members to cut actual production by 7 percent, or 1.7 million barrels a day. 
 OPEC's credibility has eroded over the last few months because its members have been pumping about three million barrels more a day than they agreed to. 
After a meeting of oil ministers, OPEC said that it would ask members to comply with the new quotas. But senior OPEC officials acknowledged that they had no way to enforce the planned cuts, as world oil markets are buffeted by factors beyond their control. They include the global economic slowdown, a possible war in Iraq and political unrest in Venezuela that has halted all of that country's oil deliveries.
Analysts generally praised OPEC's move as a step toward keeping prices and supply stable. In New York trading, crude oil for January delivery was up 61 cents, or 2.2 percent, at $28.01 a barrel.
"They are being pre-emptive to prevent oversupply when peak winter demand subsides," said Mike Rothman, an energy analyst with Merrill Lynch in New York. "It's a smart thing." Although the price of oil is relatively robust now, demand usually drops off in late winter.
If members comply, OPEC's actual production and its quotas would fall roughly into line, giving world markets a benchmark and ensuring that prices remain near the current world average of $24 a barrel.
Asked if OPEC members would comply, the group's president, Rilwanu Lukman of Nigeria, replied, "Inshallah," the Arabic word for "God willing."
Abdulhafid Mahmoud Zlitni, Libya's chief delegate, said OPEC would adjust output to try to keep prices at $22 to $28 a barrel.
Analysts said the length of the global economic slowdown lasts would probably be a crucial factor in determining oil production levels. 
If its members do stick to production quotas, OPEC will be able to exert considerable short-term control over the global market, analysts said. Although it produces only a third of the world's oil, OPEC producers, and particularly Saudi Arabia, are the only ones with spare production capacity, which gives them exceptional leverage over prices.
Analysts at the meeting generally agreed that cuts would initially be 500,000 to 1 million barrels a day, far short of the 1.7 million pledged. If Venezuela resumes deliveries, and if Iraqi production is not curbed by war, other producers, especially Nigeria and Algeria, could begin exceeding their quotas again.
Analysts said they did not expect war with Iraq, if it comes, to affect prices significantly.
"What is important is if the war spreads beyond Iraq's borders," said Vera de Ladoucette, director of Middle East research at Cambridge Energy Research Associates in Massachusetts. "If not, Saudi Arabia can compensate any loss of Iraqi supply, and they are happy to do it."

GRAPHIC: "THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES"Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since June 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); IRAQ WAR (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); QUOTAS; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GREEN, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAQ (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); AUSTRIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



396 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: European Union Turns Down Turkey's Bid for Membership 

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN, Friday, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
In a political defeat for Turkey, the 15 leaders of the European Union today rejected its demand to set a date to begin negotiations for its eventual admission to their exclusive club.
 The decision followed a long debate at a summit meeting that began over dinner and continued until after midnight. 
 The organization's leadership rejected a compromise fashioned by France and Germany under which the leaders of the European Union would meet at the end of 2004 to decide whether Turkey had met the criteria necessary to begin negotiations. If so, negotiations would have opened six months later. 
Under the agreement reached this morning, the Europeans agreed only to meet in December 2004 to decide whether Turkey, a largely Muslim country of nearly 70 million people, was democratic enough and respectful enough of human rights to begin negotiations. But no date for possible negotiations was set. 
The decision is expected to be deeply disappointing to Turkey's new government. Prime Minister Abdullah Gul, who is in Copenhagen for the summit meeting, has insisted on a firm date for negotiations to begin in 2003, well before 10 new countries -- most of them poor and from Eastern Europe -- are scheduled to formally become members. 
In announcing the decision at a news conference this morning, the Danish prime minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the current president of the European Union, neither praised it nor expressed disappointment. He said only that if the leadership decided in December 2004 that Turkey had fulfilled formal criteria for all candidate states set out in a 1993 document "then we will open accession negotiations with Turkey." 
When asked when the negotiations would begin, Mr. Rasmussen appeared to grope for the right words. "Well, it's a very clear message," he said. "The answer to that, well, you ask me, when. It is a good question and the answer is very clear. As soon as possible. Because we stick to principle. We stick to principle that Turkey can get a date for the start of accession negotiations when Turkey fulfills the political criteria." 
A draft communique, which has not been made public, is more vague and says nothing about opening negotiations with Turkey "as soon as possible" after it fulfills the requisite conditions, said a senior European official. 
The decision is also a defeat for President Bush, who, along with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, had thrown the weight of the United States behind Turkey and lobbied hard for a fixed date for negotiations to begin and Turkey's eventual membership. 
Earlier this week, Mr. Bush received Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the popular politician who is the leader of Turkey's new governing party, and pledged that the United States would work side by side with Turkey as it seeks membership. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Bush telephoned President Jacques Chirac of France and Mr. Rasmussen to lay out Turkey's case for membership. Secretary Powell called his Danish counterpart on Thursday. 
The struggle over what to do about Turkey had threatened to overshadow what is supposed to be a historic meeting in which the European Union celebrates the largest expansion in its history. Mr. Rasmussen, determined to get the Turkey issue off the table on Thursday night, presented his own proposal, which was almost identical to the decision that emerged, European officials said. 
If final haggling over money for the expansion is resolved, the organization will today formally invite 10 countries to join in 2004: Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia. 
Under what are known as the Copenhagen criteria, because they were adopted in Copenhagen in 1993, a candidate state must be judged to follow democratic principles and fully respect human rights. It must also be well on its way to meeting certain economic and institutional standards before it can begin negotiations to join. 
Turkey has been praised for laws adopted in August to abolish the death penalty in peacetime, permit greater freedom of expression and increase the rights of ethnic Kurds. But a number of union members resisted setting a date in Copenhagen for accession talks, saying that Turkey first must carry out the reforms. 
In the last few weeks, Turkey's new government, which has Islamic roots, has tried to persuade the European family that it is a secular state committed to democracy. Mr. Erdogan's trip to Washington capped visits to the capitals of member countries of the organization, where he warned repeatedly that they should not discriminate against a country whose people are Muslim. 
"Turkey has been waiting at the gates of the E.U. for 40 years, but countries that applied only 10 years ago are almost becoming members," he said in Brussels last month. "We think we have to go beyond that and not look at the E.U. as a Christian club." 
By all accounts, the lobbying by the Bush administration on behalf of Washington's key Muslim ally in NATO did not help Turkey's cause. The Europeans saw it as a cynical ploy to push for Turkey's admission to the organization in exchange for political support and access to military bases in a war against Iraq. 
Mr. Rasmussen, normally a soft-spoken conciliator, made clear that the United States had no role to play. "I would like to stress that this is a European decision," he said in a news conference before the summit meeting opened. 
To make sure his message was heard, Mr. Rasmussen added that when Mr. Bush called him on Thursday to plead Turkey's case, "I made it clear to him that this is an E.U. decision," and then repeated for a third time, "This is a European decision." 
The European leaders were also faced tonight with haggling over money by Poland and some of the nine other countries that are being invited to join. 
Mr. Rasmussen warned Poland on Thursday not to push too far and appealed to all the candidates to accept the deal on the table or risk delaying their entry from May 2004, when admission is now scheduled, until 2007 or even longer. 
"I'm not saying it's a question of now or never," Mr. Rasmussen said. "But it's a question of now or postponement for years, maybe for many years." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (74%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (58%); ABDULLAH GUL (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) SCIOLINO, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (87%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); DENMARK (87%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) EUROPE; TURKEY; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



397 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Bush's Mideast Plan
The Bush administration rejected appeals from Europeans to adopt a plan to form a Palestinian state in three years. PAGE A6

Pope to See Cardinal Law
Cardinal Bernard F. Law is to meet with Pope John Paul II today to discuss the Boston Archdiocese and his future as its leader. PAGE A28

Studying Cancer Treatment
A new study says more frequent chemotherapy delayed relapses and improved survival rates for women with breast cancer. PAGE A37

Forest Road Ban Reinstated
A federal appeals court revived a Clinton administration ban on road construction in nearly 60 million acres of national forest. PAGE A32

New Economic Adviser
President Bush named Stephen Friedman, a former Wall Street investment banker, as his top adviser on economic policy. PAGE A34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (88%); APPEALS (88%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (88%); ONCOLOGY (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (86%); CANCER (86%); BREAST CANCER (84%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



398 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Crucial Terms Still Unsettled In Settlement For Wall St. 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
After two days of arduous meetings in New York, securities regulators and the biggest brokerage firms remain deeply at odds on the terms of a settlement of the investigations into Wall Street's conflict-tinged stock research, according to people involved in the negotiations. 
 With another day of meetings scheduled for today, the sides will again try to reach agreement on two major sticking points: how much in fines each firm will pay under the settlement and which facts will be released by investigators to the public for use by investors wishing to bring their own private lawsuits against the firms. 
 Basic agreement has been reached, participants said, on how brokerage firm research departments will operate, ensuring that analysts do not become salespeople for the firms' investment banking clients.
"We have been delivering a message all week long that in order to get this global resolution done we need three things," said Christine A. Bruenn, president of the North American Securities Administrators Association and securities administrator for the state of Maine. 
"We need to change the way the firms do business," she said, "we need information for investors and we need significant penalties. Some of the firms are not ready to take those steps. My message on behalf of the states, and I think it represents the views of my federal regulatory colleagues, is if that doesn't happen we won't be able to settle with them. That means we'll have to continue and expand our investigations and prepare for litigation."
On one side of the negotiating table are officials from the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASD, the New York Stock Exchange, the New York attorney general's office and the North American Securities Administrations Association, which represents state regulators. The state regulators appear to be applying the most pressure and to be intent on levying substantial fines on the firms.
On the other side are representatives from 12 Wall Street firms, including Salomon Smith Barney, a unit of Citigroup; Credit Suisse First Boston; and Morgan Stanley. Complicating the negotiations is the fact that each firm is meeting with its adversaries separately, as is typical in an enforcement action.
The firms declined to comment on the talks. But according to several participants, most of the parties are in agreement on how a brokerage firm research department will operate under the terms of a settlement. 
These people say that the new research structure would keep stock analysts from being part of a firm's securities sales force, as they were during the stock market bubble. The firms would also create true barriers internally so that analysts could not be pressured to be unduly positive in their analysis by investment bankers or other employees of the firms.
Under the proposal, analysts could no longer accompany bankers on so-called road shows to promote new securities offerings to institutional investors. Analysts' compensation would also be based more on the quality of research than on their ability to bring in deals. 
The firms and regulators have also reached tentative agreement on a requirement that brokers offer clients research from three sources outside the firm in addition to their in-house analysis. The firms will have to pay for this research and will be responsible for choosing the companies whose research they will provide as an alternative to their own. 
Regulators will oversee the firms' compliance with the settlement and return in 18 months or two years to each firm to audit their practices. 
Charges and possible penalties against analysts or their superiors are off the negotiating table until after a deal is reached. Settlement discussions are almost entirely limited to the firms' liabilities.
It is not surprising that money is the major obstacle to a settlement. The problem is not that the firms cannot afford to pay what the regulators are asking. What they are concerned about is where they will sit in the pecking order and how that will look to investors and shareholders.
Whether individual investors will receive any of the fines in a restitution fund is still up in the air. 
According to participants, there are several tiers of fines. The firms being asked to pay the most are Salomon Smith Barney, which may pay $350 million, and Credit Suisse First Boston, which is negotiating to pay $150 million. Merrill Lynch has already agreed to pay $100 million to regulators. Below these firms is a group of seven companies, including Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and UBS Paine Webber, that regulators had initially proposed fining $50 million to $75 million. The smallest fines were proposed to two regional firms, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray and Thomas Weisel Partners. 
Not all the firms are balking at regulators' proposals of penalties, according to participants. Some of the firms, though, argue that the evidence uncovered in the investigations does not rise to the level that would require payment of such a fine. And they are coming back to regulators with offers to pay far less than what was put on the table initially. Many of the firms arguing most strenuously, people involved in the negotiations said, have not endured bad publicity from the public release of damaging e-mail messages or other documents.
Morgan Stanley, for example, maintains that it has no place in the negotiations because it has done nothing wrong, according to several people involved in the talks. But some regulators have been critical of the firm's document production. Morgan Stanley agreed last week to pay $1.65 million to settle a case brought by regulators that it had failed to maintain e-mail messages as is required by securities laws. The firm declined to comment on the research settlement negotiations.
Even if a deal is struck in the coming weeks, it may be difficult to get all 50 state regulators to agree to its terms. When Merrill Lynch settled its analyst case last April with Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, the firm agreed to pay $100 million in fines that were divided among the states. But that deal took five months to be approved by state regulators and, in the end, regulators in Missouri and Arizona withheld approval pending further review. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SALES FORCE (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; RESEARCH; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ETHICS; FINES (PENALTIES) 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); NORTH AMERICAN SECURITIES ADMINISTRATORS ASSOCIATION (NASAA) (56%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; NASD; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; NORTH AMERICAN SECURITIES ADMINISTRATIONS ASSN; SALOMON SMITH BARNEY; CITIGROUP INC; CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON; MORGAN STANLEY 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; SPITZER, ELIOT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



399 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Neatness Counts, and So Does Stability

BYLINE:  By NIA-MALIKA HENDERSON 

 BODY:
Lucyna Czercowy left the rolling hills of Poland for America six years ago in search of order, opportunity and stability. She had learned about America by watching movies, and with Poland's constant political upheavals and high unemployment, the Hollywood version of America looked to her a lot like heaven.
 But her true-to-life American experience has been a mixed bag. 
 In Poland she was a teacher. Here, she is a hotel housekeeper. In Poland she was surrounded by friends and family. Here, she is on her own to raise two children. 
"My life is hard, my job is hard," Ms. Czercowy said in heavily accented English. "But I like it here."
Her one-bedroom apartment in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn is beyond guests-are-coming neat, so there is order. And her two children are thriving in school, so there is opportunity, too.
But from the trace of uncertainty and fear in her eyes, it is clear that stability has been harder to come by. 
When Ms. Czercowy, 37, moved to America, she left her husband and their two young children in Poland. "I felt I would only bring my children because my husband never helped me before," she said.
After living in New York for two years, Ms. Czercowy sent for Elwira and Adrian, who are now 10 and 15. But her husband begged and pleaded to come, too, Ms. Czercowy said. He promised to work and to help with the children, she added. So Ms. Czercowy later agreed to his immigration, hoping that he would bring some stability and comfort.
But it was not to be. Their marriage remained fractious. By this past March she got a court order of protection against her husband. She filed for divorce in October.
"When he came here, I taught him everything," Ms. Czercowy recalled. "I found him a job, but he lost it. And some nights he did not come home."
Ms. Czercowy said her son, Adrian, who is shy but has an easy smile, would change the subject whenever she tried to talk about his father. Recently, he put pictures of his father away in cabinets.
Sept. 11, 2001, dealt another blow to Ms. Czercowy's struggling family. With nobody visiting the hotels, there was nothing to clean, so Ms. Czercowy and many of her co-workers were temporarily laid off.
"It was very hard for me," she said. "Every month went by so fast."
Representatives from Ms. Czercowy's labor union referred her to the Community Service Society of New York, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Jennifer Antoine, a caseworker, began helping Ms. Czercowy in October 2001.
"She's pretty good about trying to keep up with her bills," Ms. Antoine said. "But being on her own, and out of work, she just wasn't able to pay. So we helped her with her rent and utility bills."
The hotel where Ms. Czercowy had worked called her back to her job just in time for the holidays, but with spring came more bad news. Ms. Czercowy, who is as meticulous about giving herself monthly breast exams as she is about cleaning her house, discovered bruises on her left breast in April.
"I was nervous that it was going to be something bad," she said. Her doctors suspected cancer, and a painful biopsy revealed as much. Surgeons removed two quarter-size masses, and Ms. Czercowy went on medication for about two weeks. While she recuperated, her son did the shopping and cooking, and her daughter cleaned the house.
When Ms. Czercowy's disability payments did not quite cover her monthly bills, Ms. Antoine was there to offer help.
"When you see someone working to help themselves, it really makes you want to do for them," Ms. Antoine said. "There are people in horrible situations because they gave up. But she is always trying to make sure everything is stable."
Using money from the Neediest Cases Fund, Ms. Antoine gave the Czercowy family $692 toward their bills. Ms. Antoine is also working with Ms. Czercowy to find out if she is eligible for food stamps.
Now, with a difficult stretch behind her and a boost from Neediest Cases and the Community Service Society, Ms. Czercowy is dreaming again. She hopes to go back to school and then resume her career as a teacher when her daughter turns 12. 
"I was scared about my kids, and I was scared about everything," Ms. Czercowy recalled. "My kids were crying a lot, and they were scared, too. But Jennifer helped me, and now we feel very good. My life in the future will be better for me and my kids."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the funds expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,232,166.42
Recorded Wednesday: $132,458.50
Total: $4,364,624.92

Last year to date: $4,016,020.67

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lucyna Czercowy, an immigrant from Poland, with her daughter, Elwira, 10, and son, Adrian, 15, in their apartment in Brooklyn. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (76%); MARRIAGE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); CHARITIES (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NY 

PERSON: HENDERSON, NIA-MALIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 



400 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSIT SHOWDOWN: FINANCES; 
To the M.T.A., Its Deficit Is Clear-Cut. Others Aren't So Sure.

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY and CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
As the Metropolitan Transportation Authority enters the final, tense days of negotiations with its union over a new contract, it has repeatedly pleaded poverty. Like New York City, the state and governments across the country, the authority says, it is struggling to make ends meet in a bad economy.
 But in many ways, the authority -- the largest transit provider in the Western hemisphere -- is completely unlike those counterparts. 
 While the city's fortunes plummeted along with Wall Street's, the revenues of the subway and bus system have actually remained steady. While jobs have disappeared and hotel rooms have gone empty, depriving the city of revenues, ridership on the subways and buses has increased, a historical anomaly. In addition, the authority has taken advantage of low interest rates to save hundred of millions of dollars on its debt payments, and it has collected more than it expected in dedicated real estate taxes because the real estate market has remained strong. 
All of which causes many people, and not just the 34,000 transit workers who are demanding a raise, to ask: how could the agency end last year with a surplus as high as $300 million and yet now find itself warning of a deficit next year of more than $1 billion, a gap so large that fares could rise to $2?
The agency says that the answer is simple -- in many ways, it is a victim of its own success. It greatly improved subways and buses, offered discounts to ride them, watched as millions more riders flooded in and then had to add more subways and buses to accommodate the flood. But the discounts and the cost of the extra trains, buses and workers have finally caught up with the system, officials say.
It is an explanation that some monitors of the agency's finances, including its bond-rating agencies and the city's Independent Budget Office, accept as valid, though they disagree about the size of the deficit.
Others, including some city officials, the transport workers' union and the Straphangers Campaign, an advocacy group, believe that the agency may be exaggerating its problems as a way to justify a bigger fare increase and smaller raises for its workers. Or, they say, it has been less than honest in the past about the true nature of its finances, in part so that Gov. George E. Pataki, who controls the authority, could avoid having to make difficult financial choices until after his re-election.
Complicating matters for both sides is that the agency's budgets are often short on details and explanation, leading to widely differing interpretations and widespread calls for more transparency. Of course, such criticism is far from new. Public authorities were set up in part to insulate themselves from the scrutiny of lawmakers and others. In essence, they are arms of the state government without actually being a part of it and are less answerable to outside auditors than, say, the city is.
But Katherine N. Lapp, the M.T.A.'s executive director, strongly disputes that the authority is trying to hide anything. "It's a perception that I think is an unfair one," she said yesterday, adding, "I get really annoyed when people say, 'How did this deficit happen?' "
While ridership has risen to 2.1 billion projected for this year from 1.6 billion trips in 1996, she said, the fare has actually decreased because of the MetroCard. While the base fare is $1.50, the average fare now is $1.04, because riders have become more savvy at taking advantage of card discounts.
At the same time, the agency says it has spent $250 million to add extra service to accommodate all those new riders -- not nearly enough to keep pace with the crowds, critics say, but still an increase in expenses during a time that revenues remained flat. "You can't look at it as simply that one more person gets on the train and we get more money," Ms. Lapp said. "The costs far outstrip the revenues from those increased riders."
M.T.A. officials also contend that to a large extent, the rosier figures contained in this year's budget are a kind of mirage made possible by Mr. Pataki, who provided $367 million in extra state aid to the agency to ensure that there would be no fare increase this year.
Ms. Lapp said the governor believed that a fare increase would be too damaging to the city so soon after the Sept. 11 attack. Mr. Pataki's critics, of course, contend that the money was provided to avoid even the possibility of fares rising during this year's campaign.
But even with that aid and other one-time budget mending measures, some other monitors of the agency's finances say they find it hard to believe that its fortunes have reversed so rapidly in such a short time. "I question the sheer size of their deficit," said Gene Russianoff, the staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, which has called on the city comptroller's office to audit the finances of New York City Transit, the arm of the M.T.A. that runs subways and buses.
Mr. Russianoff said that when the agency began offering MetroCard discounts in the mid-1990's, it made very conservative projections about how much money it would lose as riders began to take advantage of them. But those losses never materialized to the extent officials feared. He added that while service has been added to deal with new riders, it comes nowhere close to matching the 50 percent increase in bus ridership and 25 percent increase in subway ridership since 1996, causing him to wonder how the system is losing so much money on new riders.
One of his fears, he said, is that the financial problems have been exaggerated to push fares higher and keep labor costs down in part because the M.T.A. would like to find a way to help Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg reduce the city's $158 million annual aid to the agency. The mayor says the city can no longer afford the aid and would like the M.T.A. and Mr. Pataki to help him mend the city's budget by releasing the city from the requirement.
"Roger Toussaint is not the only one looking for money from the M.T.A.," Mr. Russianoff said, referring to the transit union leader. "Michael Bloomberg is, too." M.T.A. officials say that the allegation is false.
Preston Niblack, deputy director of the city's Independent Budget Office, said he believed the basic imbalance described by Ms. Lapp -- increasing expenses, flat revenues -- was valid. But his office says that with savings from bond refinancing, the agency's deficit should be lower next year, about $770 million, and other calculations show that it could be even lower than that, though Mr. Niblack said the figures were difficult to reconcile.
Other city budget officials who have spent the last few months poring over the M.T.A.'s budget say they are still unsatisfied by the agency's explanations and believe the financial problems may be exaggerated.
Of course, a very big question mark remaining is how much of the projected budget deficit assumes raises for transit workers over the next three years. 
Ms. Lapp agreed that the labor costs were a question mark and said that as long as the bargaining continued, they would remain that way. "Of course, there is some labor reserve in there," she said, "but I'm not going to comment about what level is in there. Obviously, it would be totally inappropriate for me to talk about that." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); BONDS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CITIES (73%); TRAINS (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); SUBURBS (59%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BUSES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION; STRAPHANGERS CAMPAIGN 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY; LEVY, CLIFFORD J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) ; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002 

 
